GRAYMOOR-DEVONDALE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 3, Series 2023, passed 9-19-23
State legislation current through 2023
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
Graymoor-Devondale Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code”
may be substituted. Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute
any part of the law as contained in the code. (KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state. (KRS 446.010
(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010 (2))
   CATTLE. Includes horse, mule, ass, cow, ox, sheep, hog or goat of any age or
sex.
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Graymoor-Devondale irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association. (KRS 446.010 (9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association. (KRS 446.010 (10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body. (KRS 83A.010 (5))
   COUNTY. Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010 (12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees. (KRS
446.010 (13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state. (KRS 446.010 (14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 446.010
(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor. (KRS 83A.010 (6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010 (17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state. (KRS 446.010
(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010 (23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council. (KRS 91A.010 (8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member. (KRS 83A.010 (8))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010 (26))
   MONTH. Calendar month. (KRS 446.010 (27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Graymoor-Devondale, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes “affirmation” in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. (KRS 446.010 (28))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers and other persons with similar authority to
make arrests. (KRS 446.010 (31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies. (KRS 446.010 (33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected. (KRS 446.010 (37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.010 (39))
   SWORN. Includes “affirmed” in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010 (43))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010 (46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010 (47))
   YEAR. Calendar year. (KRS 446.010 (49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things. (KRS
446.020 (1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males. (KRS 446.020 (2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council. (KRS 446.080 (1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared. (KRS 446.080 (3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to the meaning. (KRS 446.080 (4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and legally
closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days just
mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons. (KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, requirement shall be construed to include
the acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at same or subsequent meeting of Council as long as the repealing
ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter shall conform, so far as
practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated herein shall
be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance, by its nature, either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add or repeal a chapter, section or
division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   (1)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and
passage date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending
ordinances, if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. G-D10, passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. G-D15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. G-D20,
passed 1-1-80; Am. Ord. G-D25, passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   When code sections are derived from provisions ordained before the
merger of the cities of Graymoor and Devondale, histories are shown as follows,
with “G” designating Graymoor and “D” designating Devondale: (Ord. G10, passed
5-13-60; Am. Ord. G15, passed 1-1-70) or (Ord. D10, passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord.
D15, passed 1-1-70).
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for- word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. G-D10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. G-D20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS
cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of the section,
this indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further
information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see KRS
61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   BOARDS AND DEPARTMENTS
      
37.   CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
      
38.   CITY POLICIES
      
39.   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan.”
(KRS 83A.130 (1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or
city ordinance. An ordinance amending the number of legislative body members
shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the county clerk of any county or counties
in which the city is located by no later than the first Wednesday after the
first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the
legislative offices will appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of legislative
body members becomes effective on January 1 of the year following the election
of the number of legislative body members specified in the amending ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of not less than six, nor more than
12 members, as prescribed by ordinance in cities of the fourth class.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Bond
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Council members
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk
   
31.37   Assistant City Clerk
   
31.38   Chief of Police
   
31.39   (Reserved)
   
31.40   Citation Officer
   
31.41   Safety Director
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH
   Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the discharge of duties
of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm,
as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of this Commonwealth,
and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful and true to the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen thereof, and that I
will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the office of           ,
according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the
adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen of this United States,
have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this State, nor out of it,
nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons,
nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any
person thus offending, so help me God,” as established by Section 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution.
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed after his or
her election or during his or her term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and Council
members with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department of Local
Government computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with Section 246 of the Constitution of
Kentucky, which provides that mayors in cities of the first class shall be paid
at a rate no greater than $12,000 per annum and mayors in cities other than the
first class and Council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200
per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department of Local Government.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
Case law reference:
   The limits on compensation contained in the Kentucky Constitution are not
absolute limits but rather increase or decrease in accordance with changes in
the consumer price index. See Matthews v Allen, 360 SW2d 248 (1948).
Editor’s note:
   Compensation ordinances are not set forth in this code but are rather kept
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040 (9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080 (2)
§ 31.04. BOND.
   (A)   Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS 62.060.
   (B)   All officers of the city who handle public funds in the execution of
their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the city for the faithful
and honest performance of their duties, and as security for all money coming
into the officer’s hands or under the officer’s control. The amount of the bond
shall be established based on the amount of public funds the officer handles at
any point in time during the fiscal year and may be satisfied by a blanket or
umbrella bond covering all or a group of city officers and employees. The cost
of the bond shall be paid by the city.
(KRS 65.067 )
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers is governed by general election laws as
provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless City Council otherwise
prescribes by ordinance that election of city officers shall be under
nonpartisan city election laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A. The ordinance
shall become effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by
the election law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with
the County Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which
any city office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any
ordinance prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city
election laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of
the county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E) and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080 (3), (4)
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. His or her term of office begins
on the first day of January following his or her election and shall be for four
years and until his or her successor qualifies.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040 (1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself. (KRS 83A.040 (2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor. (KRS 83A.040
(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from he official’s electronic mail address and
includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the city legislative body
occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed
to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the legislative
body occurring on or after its receipt. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy. (KRS 83A.040 (8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130. (KRS 83A.040 (2)
(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and require each department to make
reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest. (KRS 83A.130 (3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records. (KRS 83A.130 (4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file. (KRS 83A.130 (7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order. (KRS 83A.130 (8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance or contract and except
for employees of the Council. (KRS 83A.130 (9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the
authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this section
within 30 days of the action. If, for any reason, the disability of the Mayor
to attend to his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of
Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the
provisions of §
31.21 (C) shall apply. (KRS 83A.130 (10))
§ 31.22 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and the appointments need not be approved by City Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices: City Clerk, Assistant City
Clerk, Chief of Police, City Attorney, City Treasurer, Fire Chief, Code
Enforcement Officer and Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator.
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080 (1), (2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The office of City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any other
nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of the office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian,” pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department of Local Government a list containing current city
information including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, legislative body members and the correct name, telephone number,
and electronic mail address for the city’
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall and
telephone number of the city hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless the
person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond in accordance with the
requirements of §
31.04 of this code.
§ 31.37 ASSISTANT CITY CLERK.
   The Assistant City Clerk shall assist the City Clerk in combining the
official records of the cities of Graymoor and Devondale. Prior to taking
office, the Assistant City Clerk shall take an oath to faithfully perform the
duties of the office and that he or she possesses the requisite qualifications
for the position. The Assistant City Clerk shall be paid a salary as set forth
by city ordinance.
(Ord. G-D1, Series 1987, passed 2-23-87)
§ 31.38 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police of the city shall supervise and direct the overall
operation and activities of the City Police Department in the enforcement of
all laws which relate to the prevention of crime and the protection of lives
and property. The Chief of Police shall further be subject to the duties and
have the passes set forth by statute including, but not limited to KRS 95.019.
The Chief of Police shall further provide for order at all City Council
meetings through personal attendance or that of a subordinate officer and
perform any additional services which the Mayor deems necessary to carry out
the duties of the Chief of Police. Prior to taking office, the Chief of Police
will take an oath to faithfully perform the duties of the office and that he or
she has the requisite qualifications for office. The Chief of Police shall be
paid a salary as set forth by city ordinance. For more detailed administration
duties, please refer to Chapter 36 of this code.
(Ord. G-D1, Series 1987, passed 2-23-87; Am. Ord. G-D11, Series 2007-2008,
passed 6-24-08)
Cross-reference:
   Safety Service Director established, see §
36.01
§ 31.39 (RESERVED)
§ 31.40 CITATION OFFICER.
   (A)   The city hereby creates the nonelective office of Citation Officer.
The Citation Officer shall insure the enforcement of the laws set forth in the
Development Code for all of the county, including the zoning district
regulations, the metropolitan subdivision regulations and the sign chapter, all
as may be amended from time to time; issue citations for any violation with
respect thereto; make reports to the City Council, and any other board,
council, court and organization necessary for the effective enforcement of
regulations and ordinances. No bond shall be required of this office. Prior to
taking office, the Citation Officer shall take an oath to faithfully perform
the duties of the office and attest that he or she possesses the requisite
qualifications for the office. The Citation Officer shall be paid a salary as
set forth in city ordinance.
   (B)   This nonelective office shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city
with the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. G-D10, Series 1992, passed 11-6-92; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-2006,
passed 10-25-05)
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 90
   Development Code, see
Chapter 152
   Signs, see
Chapter 151
§ 31.41 SAFETY DIRECTOR.
   (A)   (1)   The position of Safety Director shall be appointed by the Mayor
and serve in an at-will capacity at the pleasure of the Mayor. The Safety
Director’s term shall be for the length of the term of the office of the Mayor
who appoints a Safety Director, if not terminated sooner by the Mayor at his or
her pleasure. In no event shall the term of the Safety Director extend past the
term of office of the Mayor, who has appointed the Safety Director. The Safety
Director may be paid in an amount to be determined by the City Council.
      (2)   The Safety Director shall also inform the Mayor of all relevant
information on more than a monthly basis in support of the Mayor’s executive
function. The appointed Safety Director shall have no authority to bind the
city and have only such executive authority granted to him by the Mayor. The
Safety Director’s primary function is to gather information and report on same
concerning the Police Department, to better inform the Council and Mayor on the
activities of the Police Department.
      (3)   The appointed Safety Director shall undertake each month to talk
with the Chief concerning the activities of the Police Department, its receipt
and expenditures (including a monthly printout of all purchases provided by the
Chief), its management and employees and report on these matters to the
Council and Mayor at the regular monthly meeting. The appointed Safety Director
shall have a key to the police office and access to its files to perform his or
her information gathering, except for protected information or materials.
      (4)   The appointed Safety Director shall also personally talk with any
officer concerning any matter which may impact detrimentally on the Police
Department or the city. The appointed Safety Director shall also physically
visit, at least one time each month, the offices of the Police Department. In
addition, the appointed Safety Director shall be allowed to ride with the
officers on patrol with 24-hour notice to the Chief, subject to any emergency
for which the Chief may direct otherwise.
   (B)   (1)   Each month the Safety Director may make a written report to the
Council and Mayor at the regular Council meeting concerning the activities of
the Police Department. This report shall include information concerning all
citations and warnings issued and runs made by the Police Department in the
last month, excluding protected information.
      (2)   (a)   The Safety Director may also inform the Council and Mayor of
any significant issues in the past month concerning the actions of any member
of the police force which may be the basis of a:
         1.   Disciplinary charge against a member of the Police Department;
            2.   Complaint by the public against the Police Department, or a
member of the Police Department; and/or
            3.   Complaint by a city employee against the Police Department, or
any member of the Police Department.
         (b)   If there is any matter which by its nature involves personnel or
pending litigation, the Safety Director shall report this matters in a properly
called executive session of the Council.
      (3)   The Safety Director shall also report to the Council and Mayor on
any other matter including, but not limited to, the police budget, facilities,
or management, which the Safety Director deems important for the Council and
Mayor to know in order for them to perform their oversight function, including
all matter which the Mayor of the City Council acting through their Mayor may
wish to have included.
      (4)   In addition to the above described monthly reporting, the Safety
Director shall immediately report any matter listed above deemed by the Chief
to be of immediate importance to the Mayor of the city.
   (C)   It shall also be the responsibility of the Chief and the appointed
Safety Director to make a yearly inventory of guns, radios, autos, computers,
faxes, scanners and any other equipment of significant value (in the opinion of
the Chief) and list for each an identifying number such as a serial number or
VIN number. The yearly inventory must also list the whereabouts of each item.
(Ord. G-D6, Series 2005-2006, passed 12-27-05)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
Cross-reference:
   Council members, see §
31.22
   Election procedure, see §
31.20
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Council member shall be elected at-
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. Terms of office begin on
the first day of January following the election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040 (4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
(Res. G-D1, Series 1993, passed 2-23-93)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall, within 30 days,
fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice
of his or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the
remaining members in making further appointments until all vacancies are
filled. If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor
shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute
a quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section. (KRS
83A.040 (5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from he official’s electronic mail address and
includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the city legislative body
occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed
to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the legislative
body occurring on or after its receipt. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040 (8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If, for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed. (KRS 83A.040 (6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute. (KRS
83A.130 (11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules and regulations for the
public health, safety and welfare. (KRS 83A.130 (12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources. (KRS 83A.130 (12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of any department,
office or agency in the course of any investigation. (KRS 83A.130 (13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council has
the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number
may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in the absence of the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130 (5))
Cross-reference:
   Council’s responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meeting of the City Council shall be held on the third
Tuesday of every month. The time of the meeting will be 6:30 p.m., and the
meeting will take place at the city’s offices, located at 1500 Lynn Way.
(Ord. G-D1, Series 1995, passed 1-22-95; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-2006,
passed 10-25-05; Am. Ord. G-D5, Series 2004-2005, passed 12-27-05; Am. Ord. 5,
Series 2017-2018, passed 1-23-18)
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting, no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130 (11))
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060 (6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060 (1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Graymoor-Devondale.”
(KRS 83A.060 (2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060 (3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060 (4), (7))
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after
receiving it or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon
reconsideration of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting
following its return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of
the membership.
(KRS 83A.130 (6))
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title, source
and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without setting
them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is made a
part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060 (5))
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36 (C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060 (8))
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (8))
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38 (B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared and certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes fines, penalties,
forfeitures, taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads in
lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060 (9))
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (10))
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060 (11))
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060 (12), (13))
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk. When the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (14))
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Council members shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060 (15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Grant Applications
   
33.30   Application and approval
   
33.31   Determination
   
33.32   Prohibited grants
Investment Policy
   
33.45   Fiscal year
   
33.46   Investment policies
   
33.47   Scope
   
33.48   Investment objectives
   
33.49   Investment authority
   
33.50   Standards of care
   
33.51   Authorized financial institutions, depositories, and brokers/dealers
   
33.52   Safekeeping and custody
   
33.53   Suitable and authorized investments
   
33.54   Investment parameters
   
33.55   Performance standards/evaluation
   
33.56   Reporting/disclosure
   
33.57   Policy considerations
   
33.58   Approval of investment policy
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations, see
Chapter 150
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Chapter 91
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless context otherwise requires, the following
definitions shall apply.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for administration of fiscal operations;
July 1 to June 30.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions;
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles; and
      (3)   Readily provide financial data, as may be required by the federal
revenue sharing program.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in a form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
Section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. The responsibility includes the preparation
and submission to Council of operating statements, including budgetary
comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has been
adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three months
in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extenat practical, the system utilized in the administration
and implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form
with the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
(M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements and obligations, express or implied, beyond the existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate
or warrant for the payment by the city in any way to any extent, beyond the
balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Each city of the first through fifth class shall, after the close of
each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited by the Auditor of
Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audit shall be completed
by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall
forward one electronic copy of the audit report to the Kentucky Department for
Local Government for information purposes by no later than April 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (C)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under division (A) of this section to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor
of Public Accounts.
   (D)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include, but not be limited to requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the general purpose financial
statements of all governmental, proprietary and fiduciary funds of the city;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495 and a certification with the annual or
biennial audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes the tests of the
accounting records and the auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances; where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying
the general purpose financial statements and his or her opinion and statements
relating thereto;
      (5)   The auditor express an overall opinion as to whether the general
purpose financial statements present fairly the financial condition of the city
or state the reasons why an overall opinion cannot be expressed;
      (6)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (7)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s work papers upon request.
   (E)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (F)   The city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit,
publish an advertisement in accordance with KRS Chapter 424 containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds, which shall include
the general and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $1.00 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (G)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $100 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once, in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city or owner of real property within the city. The costs of
all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident or
property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party.
   (H)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in division (A) of this section, the city may
submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department for Local
Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local Government. The
Department for Local Government shall approve the request if it is submitted on
or before the applicable deadline, and in the judgment of the Department for
Local Government the request is warranted by extenuating circumstances beyond
the control of the city. Extensions granted under this division shall not
exceed nine months from the original due date of the audit or financial
statement. If the Department for Local Government approves an extension for a
city and the city fails to complete and submit the required audit or financial
statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then the provisions of
division (I) of this section shall apply.
   (I)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in divisions (A) and (H)
of this section, the Department for Local Government shall notify the Finance
and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the audit
requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall immediately
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements of divisions (A) and (H) of this section for all prior fiscal
years it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this section, and
the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the reinstatement of
payments to the city, including any funds that were withheld due to the
noncompliance.
   (J)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
(Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed 11-15-22)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or surety bonds.
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes. (KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Ch. 107
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious or charitable organization. Council
may assess the property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish the ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to the
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any action, whichever comes later,
the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the action,
including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment thereon
and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The first
installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without the
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
GRANT APPLICATIONS
§ 33.30 APPLICATION AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   No funding request from any organization may be considered unless and
until a full, accurate and complete grant funding application is filed with the
city.
   (B)   No funding request will be considered from any for-profit
organization. No funding request will be considered if the city is prohibited
by state law from spending money for the requested good or service.
   (C)   Once a full and complete application, from a non-profit group, for a
legal expenditure of city funds, is received by the city, the Council members
will be given a full copy of the application prior to the next regularly
scheduled caucus meeting.
   (D)   After discussion at the caucus meeting, any Council member may ask
that the funding request be placed on the agenda of the regular monthly meeting
of the Council of the City of Graymoor-Devondale.
(Ord. G-D3, Series 2012-2013, passed 7-24-12)
§ 33.31 DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The Council may only approve a grant application which first meets the
following test of public purpose:
      (1)   The expenditure must confer a direct benefit of reasonably general
character to a significant part of the City of Graymoor-Devondale public, as
distinguished from a remote or theoretical benefit;
      (2)   The receiving organization must provide services that are for the
general good and welfare of city citizens; and
      (3)   The grant must have as its objective the promotion of the public
health, safety, morals, general welfare, security, prosperity and contentment
of all, or at least a substantial part of city inhabitants or residents.
   (B)   The Council must further make a determination that there are adequate
safeguards in place to make sure that the receiving organization uses the grant
request for the particular public purpose found by the city. Where possible,
the city should be provided invoices for application of the grant funds
directly to the vendor of the material, equipment, goods or services which are
being provided to the public.
   (C)   The Council may only approve a grant application, through the adoption
of a municipal order at a regular monthly meeting of the City Council.
(Ord. G-D3, Series 2012-2013, passed 7-24-12)
§ 33.32 PROHIBITED GRANTS.
   The city does hereby find that the following type of grant request’s are not
sufficiently related to a public purpose and are therefore prohibited.
   (A)   Any grant request which could be construed as a payment of a personal
bill for a city resident, as opposed to the support of a community-wide program
or initiative.
   (B)   Any grant request which could be construed as support of a particular
business or industry.
   (C)   Any grant request which funds any facility that is not open to the
general public.
(Ord. G-D3, Series 2012-2013, passed 7-24-12)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 33.45 FISCAL YEAR.
   July 1 to June 30 is hereby established as the fiscal year for the operation
of the city.
(Ord. 4, passed 4-20-21)
§ 33.46 INVESTMENT POLICIES.
   It is the policy of The City of Graymoor-Devondale to invest public funds in
a manner which will provide the maximum security and highest investment of
principle while meeting the daily cash flow demands on the City of Graymoor-
Devondale and conforming to both KRS 91A.060 and KRS 66.480. This investment
policy applies to all financial assets held directly by the City of Graymoor-
Devondale. These financial assets are accounted for in the City of Graymoor-
Devondale annual financial report and include all monies in investment fund
accounts.
(Ord. 4, passed 4-20-21)
§ 33.47 SCOPE.
   This investment policy applies to all financial assets held directly by the
city. These financial assets are accounted for in the city's annual financial
report and include all monies in the following funds:
   (A)   General Fund;
   (B)   Special Revenue Fund;
   (C)   Capital Projects Fund; and
   (D)   Any new fund created by the governing body.
(Ord. 4, passed 4-20-21)
§ 33.48 INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES.
   The City of Graymoor-Devondale primary investment objectives, in order of
priority, are the following:
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principle is the foremost objective of the City of
Graymoor- Devondale's investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a
manner that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the overall
portfolio. The goal is to mitigate credit risk and interest rate risk.
   (B)   Liquidity. The City of Graymoor-Devondale's investment portfolio shall
remain sufficiently liquid to enable the City of Graymoor-Devondale to meet all
operating requirements which might be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Return on investment. The City of Graymoor-Devondale investment
portfolio shall be designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of
return throughout the budgetary and economic cycles, considering the City of
Graymoor-Devondale's investment risk constraints and the cash flow
characteristics of the portfolio.
(Ord. 4, passed 4-20-21)
§ 33.49 INVESTMENT AUTHORITY.
   Management's responsibility for the City of Graymoor-Devondale investment
program is the joint responsibility of the designated officials, which shall be
the Mayor and the City Treasurer. Both shall share the authority, subject to
the approval of the governing body, to establish additional specific written
procedures for the operation of the investment program that are consistent with
this investment policy. The procedures shall include explicit delegation of
authority, if any, to persons responsible for investment transactions. No
person may engage in an investment transaction except as provided under the
terms of this policy and the procedures established by the designated
officials. These designated officials shall be ultimately responsible for all
transactions unde1iaken and shall establish a system of controls to regulate
the activities of subordinate officials and employees. The controls shall be
designed to prevent and control losses of public funds arising from fraud,
employee error, misrepresentation by third parties, unanticipated changes in
financial markets or imprudent actions by officers and employees. The
designated officials shall maintain all records related to the entity's
investment program.
(Ord. 4, passed 4-20-21)
§ 33.50 STANDARDS OF CARE.
   (A)   Prudence. The actions of the designated officials in the performance
of their duties as managers of the City of Graymoor-Devondale's funds shall be
evaluated using the "prudent person" standard. Investments shall be made with
judgment and care under prevailing circumstances which persons of prudence,
discretion, and intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs,
not for speculation, but for investment considering the probable safety of
their capital as well as the probable income to be derived. The designated
officials, acting in accordance with written procedures, this investment
policy, and exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal
responsibility for an individual security's performance, provided that
deviations from expectations are reported in a timely fashion to the governing
body and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
   (B)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal activity that could conflict
with the proper execution and management of the investment program, or that
could impair their ability to make impartial investment decisions. Employees
and investment officials shall disclose any material interests in financial
institutions with which they conduct business. Disclosure shall be made to the
governing body. They shall further disclose any personal financial/investment
positions that could be related to the performance of the investment portfolio.
Employees and officers shall refrain from undertaking any personal investment
transactions with the same individual with whom business is conducted on behalf
of the city.
   (C)   Delegation of authority.
      (1)   Governing body. The governing body will retain ultimate fiduciary
responsibility for the portfolios. The governing body will receive monthly
reports, designate designated officials and review the investment policy making
any changes necessary by adoption.
      (2)   Designated officials. Authority to manage the investment program is
granted to the Mayor and the City Treasurer, hereinafter referred to as
designated officials as designated by this subchapter. Responsibility for the
operation of the investment program is hereby delegated to the designated
officials who shall act in accordance with established written procedures and
internal controls for the operation of the investment program consistent with
this investment policy. Officers will prepare monthly investment reports and
other special reports as may be deemed necessary. All participants in the
investment process shall seek to act responsibly as custodians of the public
trust. No officer or designee may engage in an investment transaction except as
provided under the terms of this policy and supporting procedures.
      (3)   Investment adviser. The city may engage the services of one or more
external investment managers to assist in the management of the entity's
investment portfolio in a manner consistent with the city's objectives. Such
external managers may be granted discretion to purchase and sell investment
securities in accordance with this investment policy. Such managers must be
registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
(Ord. 4, passed 4-20-21)
§ 33.51 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, DEPOSITORIES, AND BROKERS/DEALERS.
   A list will be maintained of financial institutions and depositories
authorized to provide investment services. In addition, a list will be
maintained of approved security broker/dealers selected by conducting a process
of due diligence. These may include “primary” dealers or regional dealers that
qualify under Securities and Exchange Council (SEC) Rule 15C3-l (uniform net
capital rule).
   (A)   The designated officials shall determine which financial institutions
are authorized to provide investment services to city. Institutions eligible to
transact investment business with city include:
      (1)   Primary government dealers as designated by the Federal Reserve
Bank;
      (2)   Nationally or state-chartered banks;
      (3)   The Federal Reserve Bank;
      (4)   Direct issuers of securities eligible for purchase; and
      (5)   Kentucky League of Cities Investment Pool Plus.
   (B)   Selection of financial institutions and broker/dealers authorized to
engage in transactions with the City of Graymoor-Devondale shall be at the sole
discretion of the city.
   (C)   All brokers/dealers who desire to become qualified for investment
transactions must supply the following (as appropriate):
      (1)   Audited financial statements demonstrating compliance with state
and federal capital adequacy guidelines;
      (2)   Proof of state registration;
      (3)   Completed broker/dealer questionnaire (not applicable to
certificate of deposit counterparties); and
      (4)   Certification of having read and understood and agreeing to comply
with the entity's investment policy and evidence of adequate insurance
coverage.
   (D)   All financial institutions who desire to become depositories must
supply the following (as appropriate):
      (1)   Audited financial statements demonstrating compliance with state
and federal capital adequacy guidelines;
      (2)   Proof of state registration; and
      (3)   Evidence of adequate insurance coverage.
   (E)   A periodic review of the financial condition and registration of all
qualified financial institutions and broker/dealers will be conducted by the
designated officials.
      (1)   Minority, emerging and community financial institutions. From time
to time, the designated officials may choose to invest in instruments offered
by minority, emerging, and community financial institutions. All terms and
relationships will be fully disclosed prior to purchase and will be reported to
the appropriate entity on a consistent basis and should be consistent with
Kentucky law and city ordinance.
      (2)   Competitive transactions.
         (a)   The designated officials shall obtain competitive bid
information on all purchases of investment instruments purchased on the
secondary market. A competitive bid can be executed through a bidding process
involving at least three separate brokers/financial institutions or through the
use of a nationally recognized trading platform.
         (b)   If the city is offered a security for which there is no readily
available competitive offering on the same specific issue, then the designated
officials shall document quotations for comparable or alternative securities.
When purchasing original issue instrumentality securities, no competitive
offerings will be required as all dealers in the selling group offer those
securities as the same original issue price.
         (c)   If the city hires an investment adviser to provide investment
management services, the adviser must provide documentation of competitive
pricing execution on each transaction. The investment adviser will retain
documentation and provide upon request.
(Ord. 4, passed 4-20-21)
§ 33.52 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   (A)   Delivery vs. payment. All trades of marketable securities will be
executed (cleared and settled) on a delivery vs. payment (DVP) basis to ensure
that securities are deposited in the entity's safekeeping institution prior to
the release of funds.
   (B)   Third-party safekeeping. Securities will be held by an independent
third-party safekeeping institution selected by the City of Graymoor-Devondale.
All securities will be evidenced by safekeeping receipts in the name of the
City of Graymoor-Devondale. The safekeeping institution shall annually provide
a copy of its most recent report on internal controls - Service Organization
Control Reports (formerly 70, or SAS 70) prepared in accordance with the
Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) No. 16 (effective
June 15, 2011).
   (C)   Internal controls. The designated officials shall establish a system
of internal controls, which shall be documented in writing. The internal
controls shall be reviewed by the investment committee, where present, and with
the independent auditor. The controls shall be designed to prevent the loss of
public funds arising from fraud, employee error, and misrepresentation by third
parties, unanticipated changes in financial markets, or imprudent actions by
employees and officers of the city.
(Ord. 4, passed 4-20-21)
§ 33.53 SUITABLE AND AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Investment types and credit guidelines.
      (1)   Consistent with the GFOA Policy Statement and Kentucky laws and
city ordinances concerning investment practices, the investments as defined by
KRS 66.480, are allowed. Authorized investments include:
         (a)   U.S. government obligations and instrumentalities including
obligations subject to repurchase, if delivery of these obligations is taken
directly or through an authorized custodian (see KRS 66.480(1)(a)).
         (b)   U.S. Treasury and other U.S. government obligations that carry
the full faith and credit guarantee of the United States for the payment of
principal and interest (see KRS 66.480(1)(b)).
         (c)   Federal Agency or U.S. government-sponsored enterprises (GSE)
obligations, participations or other instruments (see KRS 66.480(1)(c)).
         (d)   CDs issued by or other interest-bearing accounts of any bank or
savings and loan institution having a physical presence in Kentucky and that
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or
that are collateralized by any obligations, including surety bonds, permitted
by KRS 41.240 (see KRS 66.480(1)(d)).
         (e)   Uncollateralized CDs issued by any bank or savings and loan
having a physical presence in Kentucky rated in one of three highest categories
by a competent rating agency (see KRS 66.480(1)(e)).
         (f)   Bankers' acceptances, which must be rated in one of the three
highest categories by a competent rating agency (see KRS 66.480(1)(f)).
         (g)   Commercial paper, rated in the highest tier (e.g., A-1, P-1, F-
1, or D-1 or higher) by a competent rating organization (se KRS 66.480(1)(g)).
         (h)   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of this state and of its
agencies and instrumentalities (see KRS 66.480(1)(h)).
         (i)   Investment-grade obligations of state or local governments or
instrumentality thereof rated one of three highest categories by a competent
rating agency (see KRS 66.480(1)(i)).
         (j)   Shares of mutual funds and exchange traded funds as identified
by KRS 66.480(1)(j).
         (k)   Individual equity securities if the funds are managed by a
professional investment manager regulated by a federal regulatory agency and
are included within the S&P 500 pursuant to KRS 66.480(1)(k).
         (l)   Individual high-quality corporate bonds managed by a
professional investment manager pursuant to KRS 66.480(1)(l).
      (2)   IMPORTANT NOTE: If the credit rating of a security is subsequently
downgraded below the minimum rating level for a new investment of that
security, the designated officials shall evaluate the downgrade on a case-by-
case basis in order to determine if the security should be held or sold. The
designated officials will apply the general objectives of safety, liquidity,
yield and legality to make the decision.
   (B)   Collateralization. Where allowed or required by Kentucky law full
collateralization will be required on all demand deposit accounts, including
checking accounts and negotiable (as authorized by respective state statutes)
and non-negotiable certificates of deposit.
   (C)   Authorized collateral. Acceptable collateral for bank deposits and
repurchase agreements shall include only:
      (1)   Obligations of the U.S. government, its agencies and GSEs,
including mortgage-backed securities; and
      (2)   Obligations of any state, city, county or authority rated at least
AA by two nationally recognized statistical rating organizations.
(Ord. 4, passed 4-20-21)
§ 33.54 INVESTMENT PARAMETERS.
   Credit risk is the risk that a security or a portfolio will lose some or all
of its value due to a real or perceived change in the ability of the issuer to
repay its debt. The city shall mitigate credit risk by adopting a
diversification strategy by diversifying its investment portfolios within the
restrictions of state and federal law, including the following:
   (A)   The amount of money invested at any time by a local government or
political subdivision in any one of the categories of investments authorized by
KRS 66.480(1)(e), (f), (g), (k) and (l) shall not exceed 20% of the total
amount of money invested by the local government;
   (B)   The amount of money invested at any one time by a local government or
a political subdivision in the categories of investments authorized in KRS
66.480(1)(j), (k) and (l) of this section shall not, aggregately, exceed 40% of
the total money invested;
   (C)   No local government of political subdivision shall purchase any
investment on a margin basis or through the use of any similar leveraging
technique; and
   (D)   At the time the investment is made, no more than 5% of the total
amount of the money invested by the local government or political subdivision
shall be invested in any one issuer unless:
      (1)   The issuer is the United States Government or an agency or
instrumentality of the United States Government, or an entity which has its
obligations guaranteed by either the United States Government or an entity,
agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government;
      (2)   The money is invested in a certificate of deposit or other
interest-bearing accounts as authorized by §
33.53(A)(1)(d), (e);
      (3)   The money is invested in bonds or certificates of indebtedness of
this state and its agencies and instrumentalities as authorized in §
33.53(A)(1)(h); or
      (4)   The money is invested in securities issued by a state or local
government, or any instrumentality or agency thereof, in the United States as
authorized in §
33.53(A)(1)(i).
(Ord. 4, passed 4-20-21)
§ 33.55 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS/EVALUATION.
   The city's investment management portfolio shall be designed with the levels
of risk appropriate to conform to performance benchmarks while meeting cash
flow demands and complying with state law.
(Ord. 4, passed 4-20-21)
§ 33.56 REPORTING/DISCLOSURE.
   Methods. The designated officials shall submit, at least, quarterly an
investment report that summarizes recent market conditions, economic
developments and anticipated investment conditions. The report shall summarize
the investment strategies employed in the most recent quarter, and describe the
portfolio in terms of investment securities, maturities, risk characteristics
and other features. The report shall explain the quarter’s total investment
return and compare the return with budgetary expectations. The report shall
include an appendix that discloses all transactions during the past quarter.
The report shall be in compliance with Kentucky law and shall be distributed to
the investment committee and others as required by law. Each quarterly report
shall indicate any areas of policy concern and suggested or planned revision of
investment strategies. Copies shall be transmitted to the independent auditor.
Within 40 days of the end of the fiscal year, the designated officials shall
present a comprehensive annual report on the investment program and investment
activity. The annual report shall include both 12-month and quarterly
comparisons of return and shall suggest policies and improvements that might be
made in the investment program. Alternatively, this report may be included
within the city's annual comprehensive annual financial report.
(Ord. 4, passed 4-20-21)
§ 33.57 POLICY CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Exemption. Any investment currently held that does not meet the
guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from the requirements of this
policy. At maturity or liquidation, such monies shall be reinvested only as
provided by this policy.
   (B)   Amendments. This policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis. Any
changes must be approved by the designated officials and any other appropriate
authority, as well as the individuals charged with maintaining internal
controls.
(Ord. 4, passed 4-20-21)
§ 33.58 APPROVAL OF INVESTMENT POLICY.
   The investment policy and any modifications to that policy shall be formally
approved and adopted by the governing body of the City of Graymoor-Devondale.
(Ord. 4, passed 4-20-21)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Format of copies
   
34.13   Fees for copies
   
34.14   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.15   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.16   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.17   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH AND PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE. A photograph or image
of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes when
the individual is booked into a detention facility as defined in KRS 520.010 or
photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether records are in his or her
actual personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall
be the Mayor.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The city, including its legislative body and every officer,
department and division of the city; every entity created by authority of the
city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency created and controlled by the city; and
any interagency body in which the city participates.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by §
34.16.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) to (5)
of this definition; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(8)(b)1.a.
to e.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications or any other mechanism for
controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the public
agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
(Am. Ord. 3, Series 2021-2022, passed 8-17-21)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any resident of the Commonwealth of Kentucky defined by KRS 61.870(10)
desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city shall make a
request for inspection by email to the City Clerk, at the office of the City
Clerk during regular office hours, except during legal holidays, or send Form
OAG-01 “Request to Inspect Public Record” to the City Clerk at the city’s
address. Form OAG-01 is available on the city website along with the ordinance
codified herein (Ord. 3, Series 2021- 2022). The official custodian, or the
custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
Form OAG-01 with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the application. Form
OAG-01 to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail or via
email.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
(Am. Ord. 3, Series 2021-2022, passed 8-17-21)
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872 (4))
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) from receipt of the Form OAG-01, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time and earliest date on which
the public record will be available for inspection or duplication (see KRS
61.872 (5)).
(Am. Ord. 3, Series 2021-2022, passed 8-17-21)
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872 (6))
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute
final agency action (see KRS 61.880).
(Am. Ord. 3, Series 2021-2022, passed 8-17-21)
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.16 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.16. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874 (1) - (3))
§ 34.13 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may, at its discretion, provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records;
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874 (3), (4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.15
§ 34.14 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.13;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874 (5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.15 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.13.
(KRS 61.874 (6))
§ 34.16 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878 (1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research; this exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within or expanding within
the Commonwealth; this exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until the time as all of the property has been
acquired; the law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action; however, records or information complied
and maintained by county attorneys or Commonwealth’s attorneys pertaining to
provisions of this chapter shall remain exempted after enforcement action,
including litigation, is completed or a decision is made to take no action. The
exemptions provided by this subdivision shall not be used by the custodian of
the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights granted by this chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law; and
      (12)      Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the Executive Director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31.
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
      (18)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409.
      (19)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
   (C)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge or
impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. The records
shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant or eligible shall not have
the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
   (D)   If any public record contains material which is not excepted under
this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and make the
nonexcepted material available for examination.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878)
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
   (C)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge or
impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. The records
shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant or eligible shall not have
the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
   (D)   If any public record contains material which is not excepted under
this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and make the
nonexcepted material available for examination.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
§ 34.17 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   County assessment adopted
   
35.02   Due date; payment
   
35.03   Delinquency
   
35.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
35.05   Disposition of funds
   
35.06   Bank franchise tax
§ 35.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the Jefferson County assessment for all real and personal property
situated within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
§ 35.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due
on December 1.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who pays his or her city taxes before December 1 after
they become due shall be entitled to a discount thereon, and the Clerk shall
allow the discount and give a receipt in full to the taxpayer.
(Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-2006, passed 10-25-05)
§ 35.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on January 1 following their due dates.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall be
subject to a penalty of 10% on the taxes due and unpaid. The delinquent
taxpayer shall also pay all costs and expenses incidental to any action taken
by the city for collection of the delinquent tax bill.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by cities of the
fourth class.
§ 35.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
Jefferson County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any taxes not paid by the date when they become
delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 35.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
§ 35.06 BANK FRANCHISE TAX.
   (A)   Tax rate. There is hereby imposed on all financial institutions, as
defined in KRS Ch. 136, located within the corporate limits of the city for the
1996 tax year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of .025% on
all deposits, as defined in KRS Ch. 136, maintained by such financial
institutions.
   (B)   Collection during first year. For transition purposes, the 1996 tax
year will be treated differently in terms of collection of taxes than all
subsequent years. For the 1996 tax year, the following timetable is hereby
established:
      (1)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later
than May 1, 1997.
      (2)   Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2% discount by May 31, 1997,
or without the discount by June 30, 1997.
   (C)   Collection during subsequent years. For all tax years subsequent to
the 1996 tax year, the following timetable is hereby established:
      (1)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later
than December 1 of each year.
      (2)   Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2% discount by December 31
of each year, or without the discount by January 31 of each year.
   (D)   Lien. The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property
subject to the tax imposed by these sections, which lien shall be superior to
all encumbrances prior or subsequent.
   (E)   Delinquency. All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are
not paid before June 30, 1997, for tax year 1997, or which are not paid before
January 31, for all subsequent tax years, shall be deemed delinquent, and shall
be subject to a penalty of 10%, and shall bear interest at the rate of 2% per
annum.
   (F)   Tax use. All moneys collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid
into the general fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
CHAPTER 36: BOARDS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
Police Department
   
36.01   Safety Director established
Cross-reference:
   Board of Ethics, see §
37.08
   Safety Director, see §
31.41
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.01 SAFETY DIRECTOR ESTABLISHED.
   The city has established the office of Safety Director and the authority and
duties of the Safety Director have been established in detail by §
31.41. The Safety Director is the Mayor’s representative in regard to the
exercise of the Mayor’s executive authority over the administration of the
Police Department. Therefore, the Mayor may designate the Safety Director to
perform the oversight functions and all members of the Police Department must
take his direction as if directly from the Mayor.
(Ord. G-D10, Series 2007-2008, passed 6-24-08; Am. Ord. 1, Series 2022, passed
6-21-22)
CHAPTER 37: CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
Section
   
37.01   Title
   
37.02   Findings
   
37.03   Purpose and authority
   
37.04   Definitions
   
37.05   Standards of conduct
   
37.06   Financial disclosure
   
37.07   Nepotism
   
37.08   Enforcement; Board of Ethics
   
37.09   Violation
§ 37.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Graymoor-
Devondale Code of Ethics.”
(Ord. G-D11, Series 1994, passed 10-25-94)
§ 37.02 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts;
   (B)   Vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon the
public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers and
employees and whenever the public perceives a conflict between private
interests and public duties, that confidence is imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Ord. G-D11, Series 1994, passed 10-25-94)
§ 37.03 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   lt is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003 as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. G-D11, Series 1994, passed 10-25-94)
§ 37.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation or any legal entity through which business is conducted for profit.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The city’s Board of Ethics which is created and vested by
this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of this
chapter.
   CITY. Graymoor-Devondale, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full time or part time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their EMPLOYEES.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A legislative body member;
      (3)   The City Clerk;
      (4)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080, including the City Treasurer, City Attorney and Chief of Police; or
      (5)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. G-D11, Series 1994, passed 10-25-94)
§ 37.05 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   Conflicts of interest in general. Every officer and employee of the
city and every city agency shall comply with the following standards of
conduct:
      (1)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any
officer or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any
business, transaction or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the
proper discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
      (2)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use
his or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages, financial or otherwise, for himself or herself or others including:
         (a)   The officer or employee;
         (b)   A family member;
         (c)   An outside employer; or
         (d)   Any business in which the officer or employee or any family
member has a financial interest.
      (3)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any
provision in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s
participation, vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues
to the officer or employee, a family member, an outside employer or as a member
of any business, occupation, profession or other group, to any greater extent
that any gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the
business, occupation, profession or other group.
      (4)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the nature of the interest to
the governing body of the city or city agency served by the officer or
employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the official record of the
proceedings of the governing body. The officer or employee shall refrain from
taking any action with respect to the matter that is the subject of the
disclosure.
   (B)   Conflicts of interest in contract.
      (1)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall
directly or through others undertaken, execute, hold or enjoy, in whole or in
part, any contract made, entered into, awarded or granted by the city or a city
agency, except as follows:
         (a)   The prohibition in division (1) above shall not apply to
contracts entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city
office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office, or before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However,
if any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as
an employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in division
(1) above shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
         (b)   The prohibition in division (1) above shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (c)
below are satisfied.
         (c)   The prohibition in division (1) above shall not apply in any
case where the following requirements are satisfied:
            1.   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency.
            2.   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
            3.   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply or
other specific reasons.
            4.   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
      (2)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A
misdemeanor, and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into
in violation of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall
be grounds for removal from office or employment with the city in accordance
with any applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or
regulations of the city.
   (C)   Receipt of gifts. No officer or employee of the city or any city
agency shall directly, or indirectly through any other person or business,
solicit or accept any gift(s) having a aggregate fair market value of more than
$200 whether in the form of money, service, loan, travel, entertainment,
hospitality, thing or promise, or any other form, under circumstances in which
it could reasonably be inferred that the gift was intended to influence, or
could reasonable be expected to influence the officer or employee in the
performance of his or her public duties.
   (D)   Use of city property, equipment and personnel. No officer or employee
of the city shall use or permit the use of any city time, funds, personnel,
equipment, letterhead or other personal or real property for the private use of
any person, unless:
      (1)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; or
      (2)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that the use is available to the general public.
(Ord. G-D11, Series 1994, passed 10-25-94)
§ 37.06 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Who must file. Officers of the city, city agencies and employees shall
file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board of Ethics.
   (B)   Filing statements; amended statements. The initial statement of
financial interests required by this section shall be filed with the Board of
Ethics, or the administrative official designated as the custodian of its
records by the Board of Ethics, no later than 5:00 p.m. on January 31, 1995.
All subsequent statements of financial interest shall be filed no later than 5:
00 p.m. on January 31 of each year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer newly-elected to fill an office with the city or a city
agency shall file his or her initial statement no later than 30 days after the
date the election results are official.
      (2)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   Form of statement. The statement of financial interests shall be filed
on a form as modified from time to time by the Board of Ethics.
   (D)   Control and maintenance of the statements.
      (1)   The Board of Ethics shall be the “official custodian” of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests
shall be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated by the Board of Ethics as the “custodian,” as public documents,
available for public inspection immediately upon filing.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of one year after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person.
      (3)   Upon the expiration of one year after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
   (E)   Contents of statement.
      (1)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year.
         (a)   The name, current business address, business telephone number
and home address of the filer;
         (b)   Title of the filer’s office; and
         (c)   The occupation and employer of the filer and the filer’s spouse.
      (2)   In addition, the filer should provide information that identifies
each source of income other than employment of the filer and the filer’s
immediate family members exceeding $10,000 during the preceding calendar year,
and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission, dividends, etc.),
except that no filer shall be required to specify the amount of the income and
no filer shall be required to disclose income that is derived from social
security, retirement fund, disability insurance or income from any business
which is not currently doing business with the city, has not done business with
the city within the past three years and is not seeking to do business with the
city.
      (3)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer
or employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
   (F)   Noncompliance with filing requirement. The Board of Ethics, or the
designated administrative official, shall notify by certified mail each person
required to file a statement of financial interests who fails to file the
statement by the due date, files an incomplete statement or files a statement
in a form other than that prescribed by the Board. The notice shall specify the
type of failure or delinquency, shall establish a date by which the failure or
delinquency shall be remedied, and shall advise the person of the penalties for
a violation.
(Ord. G-D11, Series 1994, passed 10-25-94)
§ 37.07 NEPOTISM.
   No family member of an elected or appointed city official shall be appointed
to any office or position of employment if the elected or appointed city
official or current employee will have responsibility directly or indirectly to
supervise manage, or control the work of the family member without disclosure
to and approval by the City Council and the approval being so noted in the
official minutes.
(Ord. G-D11, Series 1994, passed 10-25-94)
§ 37.08 ENFORCEMENT; BOARD OF ETHICS.
   (A)   Board of Ethics; creation.
      (1) There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties and responsibilities as set forth herein to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of three members who shall be
appointed by the Mayor of the city, subject to the approval of the City
Council. The initial members of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within
60 days of the effective date of this chapter. No member of the Board of Ethics
shall hold any elected or appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any
position of employment with the city or any city agency. All appointments shall
be for a term of three years. Each member of the Board of Ethics shall have
been a resident of the city for at least one year prior to the date of the
appointment and shall reside in the city throughout the term in office. The
members of the Board of Ethics shall be chosen by the virtue of their known and
consistent reputation for integrity and their knowledge of local government
affairs. The members may be reappointed for any number of consecutive terms.
      (3)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the Mayor,
subject to the approval of the City Council for misconduct, inability or
willful neglect of duties. Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed
from office under this section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity
for a hearing before the Mayor and the City Council.
      (4)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by
the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council. If a vacancy is not
filled by the Mayor within 60 days, the remaining
members of the Board of Ethics shall fill the vacancy, upon approval of the
City Council. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired
term.
      (5)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the City Council, but shall be reimbursed for all
necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
      (6)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a chairperson form among their
membership. The chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
      (7)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon
the call of the chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the
members.
      (8)   The presence of two or more members shall constitute a quorum and
the affirmative vote of two or more members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a conflict of
interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board shall
disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself from
voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum.
      (9)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics
and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded
in the minutes.
   (B)   Power and duties. The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers
and duties:
      (1)   To receive and investigate complaints, hold hearings and make
findings of fact and determinations with regard to alleged violations of the
provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law;
      (3)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to
the Mayor of the city, the City Council, the governing body of any city agency,
the county attorney or the appropriate person or body, as necessary;
      (4)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter;
      (5)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all
officers and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its
terms by issuing appropriate orders;
      (6)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that
are required to be filed by this chapter and to insure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Kentucky Open Records Act; and
      (7)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of
the city.
   (C)   Filing and investigation of complaints.
      (1)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing
and signed by the complainant.
      (2)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a confidential preliminary inquiry concerning the
allegations contained in the complaint at which a person who is the subject of
the complaint allowed an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the
complaint.
      (3)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary
inquiry, that the complaint contains allegations sufficient to establish a
minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the Board shall notify the
officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint and may:
         (a)   Due to mitigating circumstances, issue, in writing, a
confidential reprimand to the officer or employee concerning the alleged
violation and provide a copy of the confidential reprimand to the executive
authority and governing body of the city or city agency; or
         (b)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a
violation.
   (D)   Notice of hearings. If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing
regarding allegations contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall
issue an order setting the matter for a hearing. The order setting the matter
for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent regulations of the Board
relating to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged violator.
   (E)   Hearing procedure.
      (1)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however,
the hearings hall be conducted so as to afford all parties the full range of
due process rights required by the nature of the proceedings, including the
right to call and examine witnesses, submit evidence, cross examine witnesses
under oath and be represented by counsel.
      (2)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the accused, or his or
her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
      (3)   All meetings shall be public “open meetings” with notice. After the
conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics may enter executive session to
review the evidence before it and determine whether a violation of this chapter
has been proven. The Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
      (4)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this
chapter has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this
determination to the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint
and to the party who filed the complaint.
      (5)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may take any action it deems necessary,
including, but not limited to issuing a cease and desist order, issuing a
public reprimand, recommending removal from office or referring criminal
evidence to the property authority.
   (F)   Hearing appeals. Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any
provision of this chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the
legislative body within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board
of Ethics by filing a petition with the legislative body against the Board. The
Board shall transmit to the Court Clerk all evidence considered by the Board at
the public hearing.
   (G)   Limitation of actions. Except when the period of limitation is
otherwise established by state law, an action for a violation must be brought
within one year after the violation is discovered.
   (H)   Advisory opinions.
      (1)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based on real or hypothetical facts and circumstances,
when requested by any officer or employee of the city or city agency who is
covered by this chapter.
      (2)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (I)   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited. No officer
or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to reprisal, or
directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official authority or
influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage, restrain, deter,
prevent, interfere with, coerce or discriminate against any person who in good
faith reports, discloses, divulges or otherwise brings to the attention of the
Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the city or the Commonwealth
any facts or information relative to an actual or suspected violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. G-D11, Series 1994, passed 10-25-94; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2006-2007,
passed 12-19-06)
§ 37.09 VIOLATION.
   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall forfeit to
the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit or gain
which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have realized as a
result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by the
city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender has to pay the
amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
(Ord. G-D11, Series 1994, passed 10-25-94)
CHAPTER 38: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
38.01   (Reserved)
   
38.02   Sexual harassment policy adopted
§ 38.01 (RESERVED)
§ 38.02 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY ADOPTED.
   (A)   The city is aware of all federal and state laws which make it illegal
for sexual harassment to occur within the work place. The EEOC defines sexual
harassment as “unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other
verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature,” which constitute unlawful sex
discrimination when:
      (1)   Submission to the conduct is either explicitly or implicitly a term
or condition of an individual’s employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of the conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting that individual; and/or
      (3)   The conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering
with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   (B)   Any employee of the city who feels he or she has been sexually
harassed under the terms of this section by anyone employed by city government,
should report the situation to the Mayor or to a member of the City Council
immediately.
(Res. G-D1, Series 1996, passed 2-27-96)
CHAPTER 39: CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
Section
   
39.01   Definitions
   
39.02   Creation and membership
   
39.03   Enforcement powers
   
39.04   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation
   
39.05   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum
   
39.06   Conflict of interest
   
39.07   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
39.08   Hearing Officer
   
39.09   Enforcement proceedings
   
39.10   Hearing; notice; and final order
   
39.11   Presentation of cases
   
39.12   Appeals; final judgement
   
39.13   Ordinance fine schedule
   
39.14   Lien; fines, charges and fees
   
39.15   Lienholder notification system
   
39.16   Liens
   
39.17   Immediate action
§ 39.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A city’s necessary and reasonable costs for and associated
with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all or a
portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to a
structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839, or joint authority by virtue of having in place an Interlocal
Cooperation Agreement to perform and enforce the duties of a code enforcement
board.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, alcohol beverage control officer or other public law enforcement
officer with the authority to issue a citation.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the code enforcement board in accordance with §
39.10(E) of this chapter;
      (2)   Issued by an assigned hearing officer in accordance with §
39.10(E) of this chapter;
      (3)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in §
39.09(F) of this chapter; or
      (4)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
39.10(C) of this chapter.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of a local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance, or for any city
which has in place an interlocal cooperation agreement to perform and enforce
the duties of a code enforcement board.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 4, Series 2016-2017, passed 1-24-17)
§ 39.02 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS 65.8839 within the
city, a code enforcement board which shall be composed of no fewer than three
members, all of whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at least
one year prior to the creation of the board and shall reside there throughout
the term in office and shall be at least 21 years of age. Pursuant to KRS
65.8808, any city which has in place an interlocal cooperation agreement with
the City of Graymoor-Devodnale, to perform and enforce the duties of a code
enforcement board, will be subject to this chapter and shall be able to
participate in enforcement of that city’s ordinances, in accordance with the
terms of said interlocal cooperation agreement. Each participating city shall
make available Code Enforcement Board members for cases involving property
within their city, as set out in said interlocal cooperation agreement.
(Ord. 4, Series 2016-2017, passed 1-24-17)
§ 39.03 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 4, Series 2016-2017, passed 1-24-17)
§ 39.04 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the City
Council, or, where there is an interlocal cooperation agreement creating a
joint code enforcement board, the members shall be appointed as set out in said
interlocal cooperation agreement
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the board shall be appointed for a term of one year;
      (2)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the board shall be appointed for a term of two years; and
      (3)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the board shall be appointed for a term of three years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (D)   The executive authority may appoint two alternate members to serve on
the Code Enforcement Board in the absence of regular members. Alternate members
shall meet all of the qualifications and shall be subject to all of the
requirements that apply to regular members of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (E)   Any vacancy on the board shall be filled by the Council, subject to
approval of the City Council, within 60 days of the vacancy. If the vacancy is
not filled within that time period, the remaining Code Enforcement Board
members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
   (F)   A Code Enforcement Board member may be removed from office by City
Council for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The City
Council shall submit a written statement to the member and the legislative body
setting forth the reasons for removal. The member so removed shall have the
right of appeal to the Circuit Court.
   (G)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reimbursed for actual
expenses and compensated in the amount of $25 per meeting.
   (I)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or
nonelected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 4, Series 2016-2017, passed 1-24-17)
§ 39.05 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a chair from among its
members. The chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of
the board. In the absence of the chair, the remaining members of the board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held on the
third Wednesday of every month, if there is business to be undertaken. Meetings
other than those regularly scheduled shall be special meetings or emergency
meetings held in accordance with the requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings
Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the board’s entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of
the board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 4, Series 2016-2017, passed 1-24-17)
§ 39.06 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, disqualify himself from voting on the matter in which
he has an interest, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum.
(Ord. 4, Series 2016-2017, passed 1-24-17)
§ 39.07 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The City of Graymoor-Devondale Code Enforcement Board shall have the
following powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any code
enforcement officer.
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The chairman shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the board is authorized
to enforce.
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the board has jurisdiction.
   (G)   To assign a hearing officer to conduct hearings in accordance with §
39.08 of this chapter.
   (H)   To review and hear appeals from the enforcement actions of the Local
Alcohol Beverage Control (ABC) Officer for enforcement under KRS Chapters 241
through 244; including suspensions and revocation of licenses under KRS 243.480
and KRS 243.490. In all such ABC cases, the Code Enforcement Board’s action
shall be a detailed finding of fact and recommendation to the Local Alcohol
Beverage Control Administrator, who may adopt, modify or reject said
recommendation and issue the final order. The final order of the Local ABC
Administrator may be appealed to the state ABC Board, as set out in KRS
Chapters 241 through 244.
(Ord. 4, Series 2016-2017, passed 1-24-17)
§ 39.08 HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   Eligibility.
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Board may assign any of its members, including
the chair, to be a hearing officer.
      (2)   The Board may assign an individual who is not a member of the Board
to be a hearing officer as long as the individual does not hold any elected or
appointed office or position of employment with the city.
   (B)   Experience and training.
      (1)   A person assigned to be a hearing officer by the Code Enforcement
Board shall have experience or shall have received training in the code
enforcement process and basic procedural due process. At a minimum, the
experience or training shall include acquired knowledge regarding a party’s
fundamental due process right to:
         (a)   Be accompanied and advised by counsel at the hearing;
         (b)   Present evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf at the
hearing;
         (c)   Examine the evidence opposing the party; and
         (d)   Confront and cross-examine the witnesses opposing the party.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Board may establish additional standards in
writing, including but not limited to examples of qualifying experience and
training, and minimum amounts of experience or training required.
      (3)   Before assigning a person as a hearing officer, the Code
Enforcement Board shall require the person to submit a written, signed
affidavit describing and verifying the experience or training received. The
affidavit shall be provided on a form prescribed by the Code Enforcement Board.
      (4)   The Code Enforcement Board shall determine whether the affidavit
satisfies the experience or training requirements as set forth in this division
and any additional standards established in writing by the Board. The Board
shall not assign a person as a hearing officer unless it has determined that
the affidavit satisfies the experience or training requirements.
   (C)   Hearing powers and procedures.
      (1)   An assigned hearing officer may administer oaths to witnesses prior
to their testimony and subpoena alleged violators, witnesses, and evidence.
      (2)   Any hearing conducted by a hearing officer shall conform to the
procedural requirements in §
39.10 of this chapter.
   (D)   Final order.
      (1)   Following a hearing, the assigned hearing officer shall make
written findings of facts and conclusions of law, and enter a final order in
accordance with §
39.10(E) of this chapter.
      (2)   Within 24 hours of entry, these findings, conclusions, and final
order shall be forwarded to the alleged violator, and to the Code Enforcement
Board. The findings, conclusions, and recommended order may be delivered to the
alleged violator by regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt
requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual
place of residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age
or older and who is informed of the contents of the delivery.
   (E)   Appeal from final order. An alleged violator may appeal a final order
issued by a hearing officer directly to District Court, in accordance with §
39.12 of this chapter.
(Ord. 4, Series 2016-2017, passed 1-24-17)
§ 39.09 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board or hearing officer:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a code enforcement officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to §
39.17 of this chapter, if a code enforcement officer believes, based on his
personal observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city
ordinance, he or she shall issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged
violator a specified period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a
fine. If the alleged violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within
the time specified, the code enforcement officer is authorized to issue a
citation.
   (C)   The code enforcement officer shall issue the citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.
   (D)   The citation issued by the code enforcement officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the code enforcement officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation.
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board or hearing officer to contest the citation; the determination
that the violation was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall
be deemed a final order determining that the violation was committed and
imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the code enforcement
officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
City Clerk.
   (F)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation.
   (G)   If the person fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final. In this
event, the citation as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that
the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the
citation, and the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the
final order to District Court. Notice of the final order shall be delivered to
the cited violator by regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt
requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual
place of residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age
or older and who is informed of the contents of the delivery.
(Ord. 4, Series 2016-2017, passed 1-24-17)
§ 39.10 HEARING; NOTICE; AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person’s usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time and
place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing
to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was committed
shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set
forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to have waived
the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (D)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (E)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the code enforcement officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the code enforcement
officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (F)   The Code Enforcement Board or assigned hearing officer shall, based on
the evidence, determine whether a violation was committed. If it is determined
that no violation was committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be
entered. If it is determined that a violation was committed, an order may be
issued upholding the citation. The board or hearing officer may impose a fine
up to the maximum authorized by ordinance or require the offender to remedy a
continuing violation to avoid a fine, or both.
   (G)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to writing,
which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date the order
was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the citation.
   (H)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered by regular first-class mail;
certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the
notice at the person’s usual place of residence with any individual residing
therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the notice.
(Ord. 4, Series 2016-2017, passed 1-24-17)
§ 39.11 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board or assigned hearing officer
shall be presented by an attorney selected by the city, a code enforcement
officer for the city, or by a member of the city’s administrative staff. The
city attorney may either be counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or hearing
officer, or may present cases before the board or hearing officer, but shall in
no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 4, Series 2016-2017, passed 1-24-17)
§ 39.12 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board or assigned
hearing officer following a hearing conducted pursuant to §
39.10(E) of this chapter may be made to the Jefferson County District Court
within 30 days of the date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated
by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner
as any civil action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order following a hearing is filed within
the time period set in division (A) of this section, the order shall be deemed
final for all purposes.
(Ord. 4, Series 2016-2017, passed 1-24-17)
§ 39.13 ORDINANCE FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the City Code Enforcement
Board or an assigned hearing officer may be subject to the penalty sections of
any individual ordinance violated; or, in the alternative, the City Code
Enforcement Board or an assigned hearing officer may in their discretion use
the following schedule of standard civil fines:
   (A)   The following maximum penalties may be imposed at the discretion of
the Code Enforcement Board or hearing officer:
Violation 1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Violation         1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Animals           $100.00     $200.00     $300.00
Building Code     $500.00     $750.00     $1,000.00
Nuisance          $100.00     $200.00     $325.00
Licensing         $500.00     $750.00     $,1000.00
Signage           $75.00      $150.00     $325.00
Littering         $75.00      $150.00     $325.00
Parking           $75.00      $150.00     $325.00
Streets/sidewalks $75.00      $150.00     $325.00
 
(Ord. 4, Series 2016-2017, passed 1-24-17; Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed
11-15-22)
§ 39.14 LIEN; FINES, CHARGES, AND FEES.
   (A)   If the Code Enforcement Board, or assigned hearing officer, does find
that there is a violation of the city ordinances, the Code Enforcement Board
shall have the discretion to require compliance, in addition to the fines set
out in §
39.13. In addition, it is within the discretion of the Code Enforcement Board
to find that each day of non-compliance after said finding will constitute the
imposition of another find for each day’s violation, up to the following
maximums: on first violation, the maximum total fine for each person cited is
$1,000. On second violation, the maximum total fine for each person cited is
$2,000. On third violation, the maximum total fine for each person cited is
$3,000.
   (B)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a non-appealable final order of the code enforcement officer or board, or by a
final judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of a city ordinance.
The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all
charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the
ordinance, including abatement costs. An affidavit of the code enforcement
officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and
regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
   (C)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the Jefferson County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years
following the date of the non-appealable final order or final court judgment.
   (D)   Subject to §
39.16 of this chapter, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens,
except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by
judicial proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (E)   In addition to the remedy prescribed herein of this section, the
person found to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible
for the amount of all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance.
The city may bring a civil action against the person and shall have the same
remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 4, Series 2016-2017, passed 1-24-17)
§ 39.15 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in §
39.14 of this chapter, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the code enforcement officer:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
(Ord. 4, Series 2016-2017, passed 1-24-17)
§ 39.16 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
39.15(B) of this chapter may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of
notification under §
39.15(D) of this chapter:
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
39.17 of this chapter.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
39.14 of this chapter shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens
if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
39.15 of this chapter for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A) of this section.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under divisions (E) of this section shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, take precedence over all other subsequent liens except liens for
state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45 day period established in
division (A) of this section expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to
the expiration of the 45 day period, the city shall release the lien in the
county clerk’s office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of
satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §§
39.15 and
39.16 of this chapter, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously
filed liens as provided in division (C) of this section, shall not limit or
restrict any other remedies the city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 4, Series 2016-2017, passed 1-24-17)
§ 39.17 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate action
to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe that
the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 4, Series 2016-2017, passed 1-24-17)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Collection procedure; recyclables
   
50.02   Container requirements
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 COLLECTION PROCEDURE; RECYCLABLES.
   (A)   Each person, firm or organization that places recyclable materials
with his or her disposable garbage and trash to be carried away by the contract
garbage collector employed by the city thereby transfers ownership of all such
recyclable material to the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or organization, other than
the contract garbage carrier employed by the city to collect and dispose of
garbage and recyclable materials, to remove recyclable materials and bins from
the collection area of any resident, firm or organization within the city.
(Ord. G-D9, Series 1992, passed 10-27-92) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No resident may set out a garbage, recycling or yard waste container
for collection prior to 6:00 p.m. on the day before a regular or special
scheduled collection date. In addition, no resident shall be allowed to set out
for collection waste products which were not generated at the residence. All
kitchen garbage must be placed in a plastic or metal sealed garbage can. Empty
garbage and recycling containers must be returned to the rear of the residence
by 8:00 a.m. the day after collection. Any items not covered by the regular
pickup shall be the responsibility of the resident to request, from the
carrier, a special pickup and pay if there are any additional charges for the
pickup.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of this section shall subject the offender to
fines, penalties and forfeitures that may be imposed by law, and the city may
secure injunctions and abatement orders, when appropriate, to insure compliance
with this section, as authorized by KRS 83A.065.
      (2)   This section may be enforced by any one or combination of the
remedies authorized herein.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 1999-2000, passed 7-27-99; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-2006,
passed 10-25-05) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or organization violating §
50.01 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. G-D9, Series 1992, passed 10-27-92)
   (B)   Any person who shall violate §
50.02 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount of $25 per
occurrence.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-2006, passed 10-25-05; Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023,
passed 11-15-22)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
Speed Hump Installation Policy
   
70.30   Definitions
   
70.31   Eligibility requirements
   
70.32   Speed hump removal and alteration
   
70.33   Speed hump location
   
70.34   Design standards and procedures
   
70.35   Procedures for speed hump installation
 
   
70.99   General penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the BOULEVARD.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and other portions of the roadway between two
intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and marked by
stanchions, paint lines or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of a portion of a street used for vehicles whether marked
by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in a manner as to proceed in
the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street, improved, designated or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on or by which person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county or city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any
of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this
traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrests for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose traffic regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks.
If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two
weeks, the City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at the place prohibits
either turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the
signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at other
point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain standing
until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at other point as
may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed until
it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by the
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way.” Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above the lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at the place prohibits
the turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic device or
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal any commercial advertising. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as restricting any public department or public
utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or erecting
any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the city.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may, at his or her discretion, disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
SPEED HUMP INSTALLATION POLICY
§ 70.30 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply for the purposes of this policy only.
   APPLICATIONS for speed humps include a petition of the affected property
owners.
   FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION. The process by which streets and highways are
grouped into classes or systems according to the character of service they are
intended to provide. (Highway Functional Classification and Needs Study Manual)
      (1)   ARTERIAL SYSTEM. Provides for through traffic movement between
areas and across the city with limited access to abutting property, subject to
access controls and curb uses.
      (2)   COLLECTOR SYSTEM. Provides for traffic movement between arterials
and local streets, with limited access to abutting properties.
      (3)   LOCAL SYSTEM. Provides direct access to abutting properties.
   LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS. Includes single-family houses,
townhouses, duplexes, triplexes and quadplexes.
   MUTCD.  Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   ROADWAYS. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" as used herein shall refer to
any roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SPEED HUMPS. Geometric design feature of a roadway, consisting of a raised
area in the roadway pavement surface, extending transversely across the travel
way, whose primary purpose is to reduce the speed of vehicles traveling along
the roadway.
   STREET. Refers to the entire street length that must be petitioned.
(Ord. G-D15, Series 2004-2005, passed 5-24-05)
§ 70.31 ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   All of the following criteria must be satisfied for a street to be
considered eligible for speed hump installation.
   (A)   Petition. A petition that documents that a minimum of 75% of the
property owners on a low density residential street (the entire length and any
additional roadway primarily served by the street on which the hump will be
located) supports the installation of speed humps.
   (B)   Location of the street. The land uses of the properties abutting the
street where the speed hump is proposed must be composed of low density
residential dwellings. This would include public roadways where 50% or more of
the residences are single family detached housing.
   (C)   Operational characteristics of the street.
      (1)   The street must be used to provide access to abutting low density
residential properties. The street must not be identified as a collector of
higher level street, as defined by the Jefferson County Comprehensive Plan,
Core Graphic 13.
      (2)   There must be no more than one moving lane of traffic in each
direction.
      (3)   Traffic volumes must be more than 1,000 but less than 3,000
vehicles, two-way volume per day.
      (4)   Vehicle speed must exceed the speed criteria.
      (5)   The street must have a speed limit of 25 mph as determined in
accordance with the city Code of Ordinances.
      (6)   The street must not be so close to a Fire Department facility as to
significantly interfere with emergency vehicle operations.
   (D)   Geometric characteristics of the street.
      (1)   The street must have adequate sight distances to safely accommodate
the hump as determined, in writing, by the city, as defined in the Traffic
Engineering Handbook.
      (2)   The street must not have curves or grades that prevent safe
placement of the humps. Humps may be located on streets that contain curves
and/or grades, but the hump itself shall not be located within a significant
horizontal curve, or a vertical grade greater than 8%.
      (3)   The street must be paved. If there are no curbs, a special design
of speed hump must be used to prevent vehicles from going around the speed
hump.
(Ord. G-D15, Series 2004-2005, passed 5-24-05)
§ 70.32 SPEED HUMP REMOVAL AND ALTERATION.
   The process for speed hump removal or alteration by citizens is the same as
the process for installation. The city retains the power to remove any hump
upon its own authority.
(Ord. G-D15, Series 2004-2005, passed 5-24-05)
§ 70.33 SPEED HUMP LOCATION.
   (A)   A speed hump will not be located in front of a property if the
property owner objects, in writing, to its placement or, in the case of
property containing low density multiple dwellings, if the majority of the
households on the property object to its placement. Fulfillment of this
requirement is the responsibility of the applicant(s).
   (B)   The exact speed hump location is subject to traffic safety and
operations requirements.
(Ord. G-D15, Series 2004-2005, passed 5-24-05)
§ 70.34 DESIGN STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The city will prepare and maintain current design standards and
installation procedures for speed humps according to this policy.
   (B)   Application and design of speed humps shall comply with the Institute
of Transportation Engineers, Recommended Practice, Guidelines for the Design
and Application of Speed Humps.
   (C)   All signage and pavement markings shall comply with the current
edition of the MUTCD. Should signage and markings not be defined in the MUTCD,
they shall comply with ITE's Recommended Practice, Guidelines for the Design
and Application of Speed Humps.
(Ord. G-D15, Series 2004-2005, passed 5-24-05)
§ 70.35 PROCEDURES FOR SPEED HUMP INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The initial request for the installation of speed humps must originate
from the property owners on the street. A request in writing from an individual
citizen or a representative of a neighborhood group must be forwarded to the
following address:
      City of Graymoor-Devondale
      1500 Lynn Way
      Louisville, KY 40222
   (B)   The city will make a preliminary determination of eligibility based on
available traffic data in a timely matter.
      (1)   If the street is determined not to be eligible, the applicant's
representative will be given written notification of that determination and its
reasons.
      (2)   The decision may be appealed in writing to the city within 15 days
of the notification date.
      (3)   If the street is determined to be eligible for consideration, a
meeting will be arranged between the applicant's representative, appropriate
city staff to define the petition area, the approximated speed hump location
range and funding options. The applicant's representative will be instructed to
submit a petition showing that a minimum of 75% of the property owners in the
petition area support the installation of speed humps as provided in the speed
hump policy. Only petition forms supplied by the city may be used for this
purpose.
   (C)   After verification of the petitions, the city will conduct the
necessary transportation engineering studies, including but not limited to
traffic volume, accident and speed studies, and solicit comments and
recommendations of other agencies, including but not limited to emergency
service and Solid Waste Management. A determination of the street's eligibility
for speed hump installation will be made, in writing and in a timely manner, to
the applicant's representative based on the speed hump policy.
      (1)   If the street is determined not to be eligible for speed hump
installation, the applicant's representative will be notified in writing giving
the reason(s).
      (2)   The decision may be appealed with 15 days to City Council.
      (3)   If the street is determined to be eligible, the street will be
placed on a list of streets eligible for speed hump installation. The city will
notify, in writing, the applicant's representative.
   (D)   The city will make a determination of the total design, engineering
and installation costs according to the speed hump policy.
(Ord. G-D15, Series 2004-2005, passed 5-24-05)
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $1,000.
(Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed 11-15-22)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
   
71.28   Standards for noise pollution; exemptions
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in a manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330 (8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in a manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle
or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way,
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the
edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain in a
position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed
by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep the position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of the Fire Department when the hose is laid down on any
street, private driveway or track for use at any fire alarm unless the Fire
Department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall either, while
proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions.
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to make, continue,
or cause to be made or continued, any unreasonably loud, harsh, or excessive
noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace, or safety of others, unless the making and continuing of the
noise is necessary for the protection or preservation of property or the life,
health, or safety of a person or persons.
   (B)   The following acts are hereby declared to be unreasonably loud, harsh
or excessive noises in violation of this section, but the enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive.
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or other such audible signaling device on
any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any right-of-way, parking lot or
other public place, except as a danger warning, for an unreasonable period of
time;
      (2)   The use or operation of any radio, stereo, or other machine or
device for the producing, reproducing or amplification of sound in any vehicle
in such a manner as to create an unreasonably loud, harsh, or excessive noise,
that disturbs the peace, quiet or comfort of others;
      (3)   The use or operation of, or allowing the use or operation of, any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device
for the producing, reproducing or amplification of sound in such a manner as to
create an unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise which disturbs the peace,
quiet, and comfort of others by creating or allowing a louder volume than is
necessary for the convenient hearing of the person or persons who are
voluntarily in the room, chamber, or vehicle in which any above described
machine, device, or musical instrument is located;
      (4)   The use or operation of any vehicle in such manner as to produce
any unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise, or to discharge into the open
air the exhaust of any vehicle except through a muffler or other device which
will effectively prevent any unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noises
therefrom;
      (5)   Creation of any unreasonably loud, harsh, or excessive noise in
connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle;
      (6)   The use of any mechanical loud speaker, amplifier, sound system,
stereo or radio on any moving or standing vehicle for advertising,
entertainment or any other purpose, in such a manner as to create an
unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-2006, passed 10-25-05) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law provisions, see KRS 189.020
§ 71.28 STANDARDS FOR NOISE POLLUTION; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Standards. The standards which shall be considered in determining
whether a violation of §
71.27 exists shall include but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   The volume of the noise;
      (2)   The intensity of the noise;
      (3)   The volume and intensity of back-ground noise, if any;
      (4)   The proximity of the noise to a residential area, place of public
accommodation such as a hotel, motel, inn, campground and the like, health care
facilities, churches or schools;
      (5)   The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise emanates;
      (6)   The density of inhabitation of the area within which the noise
emanates;
      (7)   The time of day or night the noise occurs;
      (8)   The duration of the noise; and
      (9)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following uses and activities shall be exempt from §
71.27:
      (1)   Noises originating or emanating from safety signals, warning
devices, and emergency pressure relief valves;
      (2)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle or law
enforcement training facilities;
      (3)   Noises resulting from construction or demolition activity, provided
such activity takes place between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
      (4)   Noises relating from the use of farm machinery or other machinery
for agricultural purposes in bona fide farming operations;
      (5)   Noises relating to the use of lawn mowers or other machinery for
landscaping purposes between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
      (6)   Noises originating or emanating from public recreational
facilities, such as but not limited to fairgrounds, sports arenas, sports
stadiums, amusement parks, racetracks and other public amusement
establishments;
      (7)   The operation of any aircraft in conformity with, or pursuant to,
federal law, federal air regulations and/or air traffic control instructions;
      (8)   Noises resulting from any and all transportation, flood control,
utility company maintenance and construction operations at any time on right-
of-ways and noises from situations which may occur on private real property,
including in parking lots, deemed necessary to serve the best interest of the
public and to protect the public's health and well being, including, but not
limited to, street or hard surface sweeping or cleaning, debris and limb
removal, removal of downed wires, restoring electrical service, repairing
traffic signals, unplugging sewers, snow removal, house moving, vacuuming
catch-basins, removal of damaged poles and vehicles, repair of water hydrants
and mains, gas lines, oil lines, and sewers;
      (9)   Noises from activities conducted on public parks or playgrounds and
public or private school grounds, including, but not limited to, school
athletic and school entertainment events;
      (10)   Noises from activities conducted on property owned or operated by
civic, charitable or religious organizations, including, but not limited to,
neighborhood or church festivals and entertainment events;
      (11)   Noises from activities at parades, provided a valid parade permit
has been obtained;
      (12)   Noises from activities at firework displays, provided all
necessary permits have been obtained;
      (13)   Noises from activities conducted on rights-of-way of the city,
including, but not limited to, festivals and entertainment events, provided all
necessary permits have been obtained; and
      (14)   Noises relating to the collection of refuse between the hours of
6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-2006, passed 10-25-05)
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park or
other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by the
officer.
   (A)   The application for a parade permit shall be filed not less than five
days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is proposed to
conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; or
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment enroute to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement of
this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Cross reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.02
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $50, nor more than $1,000.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $1,000, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30
days, or both. (KRS 189.993 (8))
(Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed 11-15-22)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Limitations on stopping and parking
   
72.02   Parking on parade routes
   
72.03   Parking in parks
   
72.04   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.05   Owner responsibility
   
72.06   Exceptions
   
72.07   Towing of illegally parked vehicles
   
72.08   Parking for persons with disabilities
Snow Emergency
   
72.20   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.21   Termination of emergency
   
72.22   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS 65.120
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 LIMITATIONS ON STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Park any vehicle in a marked handicapped parking space unless that
vehicle displays a handicapped parking permit issued by appropriate
governmental authorities for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person.
   (B)   Park any vehicle in an area designated as a fire lane. A fire lane is
so designated with a sign marked “No Parking, Fire Lane” or with the words
“Fire Lane” painted on the pavement or with a yellow curb or any combination
thereof which satisfy public safety specifications.
   (C)   Park any vehicle in any manner on a public way other than with its
right-hand side toward and parallel with the curb two right wheels on the paved
surface within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (D)   Park any vehicle in any manner which may be a nuisance, obstruction or
a hindrance in or on any public way within the city either during the day or
night
   (E)   Park any vehicle within the right-of-way or on the rights-of-way
listed in Chapter 74, Parking Schedule II.
   (F)   Park any vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle, on a public way in
front of or in the approximate vicinity of any home, apartment or other
dwelling for a period in excess of four hours except for semi-trailers and
truck tractors from which or into which household goods are being loaded or
unloaded as part of a resident moving into or out of a dwelling or delivering
goods, merchandise or other property or services to a resident of the city.
   (G)   Park any vehicle on a public way for a period in excess of four hours,
except as permitted in division (F).
   (H)   (1)   Park any vehicle upon any public or private property, except
upon a paved, graveled or other similarly constructed surface except a paved,
graveled or other surface that exists in violation of city ordinance.
      (2)   No property owner or resident shall be allowed to extend any
existing paved, graveled or other similarly constructed surface onto any
property of the city, except by permit of the city.
   (I)   Park any vehicle with a gross weight equal to or in excess of 10,000
pounds on a residential street or driveway, except that a vehicle may be parked
on a residential street or driveway for the purpose of and only so long as
necessary for the vehicle to be loaded or unloaded with goods, merchandise or
other property.
   (J)   Park, store or maintain any boat, trailer, camper, recreational
vehicle, mobile home, bus or motor truck, which motor truck exceeds 1½-tons
load capacity on any public or private property in a residential area except
behind the front wall of the residence, on a hard durable surface.
(Ord. G-D3, Series 2007-2008, passed 7-24-07)
   (K)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (L)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
(M)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division (P)
below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on any
street so marked by official signs.
   (N)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (P) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (O)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(P) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (P)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof.
      (2)   However, in lieu of erecting signs or in conjunction therewith, the
face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is prohibited
at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (3)   No regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the signs
have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the time
of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions which
by their very nature would not require signs and markings.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade, procession or event, to erect temporary traffic
signs to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent the parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of signs or directions.
(Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-2006, passed 10-25-05) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 through
71.51
§ 72.03 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot or tot lot within the city not
designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a roadway.
However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and regularly
maintained roadway in any park or playground where at least two wheels of the
motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions herein, a vehicle which is improperly
parked, according to §
72.01(I) and (J), owned or operated by a person who is not a resident of the
city and is a guest of a resident of the city may be parked in the driveway of
the residence in which the vehicle owner or operator is a guest for a period
not to exceed 72 hours, provided that a permit is obtained from the City Clerk,
the Chief of Police or his or her designated agent. The permit shall be issued
by the City Clerk, the Chief of Police or his or her designated agent upon the
completion by the resident of an application stating that the permit shall be
used exclusively by his or her guest. The permit shall be displayed prominently
on the vehicle. Permits issued pursuant to this section may be renewed for
additional periods of 72 hours each, not to exceed three renewals within a 60-
day period.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions herein, a person may park a
vehicle in the driveway of that person's dwelling for a period not to exceed 48
hours for the purposes of loading, unloading, cleaning, repairing or servicing
the vehicle, upon obtaining a permit from the City Clerk, the Chief of Police
or his or her designated agent. The permit shall be issued by the City Clerk,
the Chief of Police or his or her designated agent upon the completion by the
vehicle owner of an application for the permit stating that the permit will be
used solely for the foregoing purposes. The permit shall be displayed
prominently upon the vehicle. Permits issued pursuant to this section may be
renewed one time for an additional 48- hour period, but may not be further
renewed.
      (2)   A new permit may not be issued to any person pursuant to this
section within one week after the issuance to that person of a prior permit
pursuant to this section except in the event of an emergency situation creating
likelihood of injury to persons or property, the existence of the emergency to
be determined by the Chief of Police or his or her designated agent.
   (C)   The Mayor may prohibit parking on any streets within the city during
construction or an emergency. For the purpose of construction or during an
emergency, the Mayor shall issue and have delivered a written notice to each
residence or business on streets affected by the parking prohibition and
instruct the city police regarding its enforcement. The notice shall describe a
beginning and ending period for the parking prohibition.
(Ord. G-D2, Series 1988, passed 4-25-88; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 1996-97, passed
7-22-97; Am. Ord. G-D5, Series 1996-97, passed 3-25-97; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series
1997-98, passed 7-22-97; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-2006, passed 10-25-05)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 TOWING OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any vehicle abandoned or illegally parked on the public ways may be
removed at the direction of the Chief of Police or his or her designated agent
to a tow lot designated by the city. The vehicle may be reclaimed by the owner
at the owner's expense including all towing and storage charges and payment of
all fines imposed by the city.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or his or her designated agent shall release a
vehicle to its legal owner without fine if it has been determined by the city
police that the vehicle was stolen.
   (C)   (1)   Any vehicle remaining in the possession of the contracted tow
lot to which it has been delivered and with which it has remained for a period
of 60 days without being reclaimed by the rightful owner thereof, and without
the payment of the towing and storage charges thereon, may after authorization
of the Chief of Police or his or her designated agent, be sold to pay the
towing and storage. The advertisement of the proposed sale shall be published
as set forth in KRS 424.130. The last advertisement shall be made at least
seven days before sale is held. Notice of sale shall be sent by registered mail
to the owner of the motor vehicle, and to any other person known to have any
interest therein, addressed to the person at their last known address at least
ten days before the sale is held.
      (2)   The owner of any motor vehicle may sign a waiver of notice of sale
and waiting period and permit the tow lot to sell the motor vehicle whenever he
or she deems it proper and necessary.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be released by the tow lot except on written order
from the Chief of Police or his or her designated agent.
(Ord. G-D2, Series 1988, passed 4-25-88; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 1996-97, passed
7-22-97; Am. Ord. G-D5, Series 1996-97, passed 3-25-97; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series
1997-98, passed 7-22-97) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor
vehicle bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk
pursuant to appropriate county ordinances for a person with a disability, when
operated by a person with a disability or when transporting a person with a
disability, may be parked in a designated parking place for persons with
disabilities, or when parked in a metered parking space may be parked for two
hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking limit is imposed may be
parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit. The motor vehicle may be
parked in a loading zone for that period of time necessary to permit entrance
or exit of the person with a disability to or from the parked vehicle, but in
no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
      (2)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in a manner as to constitute a
traffic hazard.
   (B)   (1)   A motor vehicle bearing a license plate for a disabled veteran
issued under authority of KRS 186.042 or a special license plate for a person
with a disability issued under authority of KRS 186.042 or a special parking
permit for persons with disabilities issued by the County Clerk's office, when
operated by a person with a disability or when transporting a person with a
disability may be parked in a designated parking place for persons with
disabilities, or when parked where any parking limit is imposed may be parked
for two hours in excess of the parking limit. The motor vehicle may be parked
in a loading zone for that period of time necessary to permit entrance or exit
of the person with a disability from the building or entrance or exit of a
person with a disability from the parked vehicle, but in no circumstances
longer than 30 minutes.
      (2)   This section shall neither permit parking in a no-stopping or no-
parking zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a fire
lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in a manner as to constitute a
traffic hazard.
(Ord. D1, Series 1980-81, passed - -81)
Penalty, see §
72.99
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.20 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that the parking be prohibited, he or
she is authorized to announce the prohibition, to become effective at a time
specified by him or her. After the effective time of the prohibition, no person
shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow
emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain occurs
after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other
authorized city official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on
snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle
parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following
the fall. The prohibition of parking announced by the Chief of Police or other
authorized city official under the authority of this section shall remain in
effect until he or her announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part
or in which the prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no
longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
If the announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it
shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.22 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On the street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city shall
be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount not
less than $25, nor more than $100 (see KRS 189.990 (1)).
(Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed 11-15-22)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   (Reserved)
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02 (C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on the bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motorized scooter except with a license,
permit and registration as required by Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-2006, passed 10-25-05) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations for operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 (RESERVED)
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I RESTRICTED PARKING.
   Street parking is prohibited on either side of the street between the hours
of 7:30 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on Sundays and 5:00 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. on Saturdays.
 
Street        Location
Girard Drive  From Woolrich Road to Graymoor Road
Mirimar Drive To Graymoor Road
Techny Lane   To Graymoor Road
 
(Ord. G-D2, Series 1988, passed 4-25-88; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 1996-97, passed
7-22-97; Am. Ord. G-D5, Series 1996-97, passed 3-25-97; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series
1997-98, passed 7-22-97) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES FRANCHISE
      
96.   TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS AND DUMPSTERS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   County regulations adopted
§ 90.01 COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The Jefferson County animal control regulations are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein as if set out in full. A copy of the county’s regulations
is made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(Ord. D4, Series 1983, passed 4-25-83)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public hearing required
   
91.16   Notice requirements
   
91.17   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.18   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations, see
Chapter 150
   Communications Services Franchises, see
Chapter 95
   Improvements, see §§
33.10 through
33.18
   Littering, see
Chapter 94
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 92
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work, unless a permit issued by the city to make the opening had been
obtained.
(Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-2006, passed 10-25-05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the legislative body, giving the exact location of the
proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated and
other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a
cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with
the authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory
refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except the part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the legislative body for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the legislative body shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall for the faithful performance of the work. The Mayor, if authorized by
City Council, may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street or bridge it shall provide an opportunity to the public to provide
input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS 61.823(2)
to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for
road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100 (1))
§ 91.17 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting, but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100 (2))
§ 91.18 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100 (3))
§ 91.19 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting
for each project.
   (B)   A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100 (4))
§ 91.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused
disasters, nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100 (5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
way within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting
any fence or building to remain thereon.
   (B)   Each day that any fence or building is permitted to remain upon the
public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk.
   (B)   No owner, occupant or person having the care of any building or lot of
land, bordering on any street or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered
with barrels, boxes, cans, articles or substances of any kind, so as to
interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
§ 91.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, a reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after
the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000.
(Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed 11-15-22)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Reserved
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 - 411.570
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in a condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any act, thing, occupation, condition or use of property
which shall continue for a length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose
or safety of the public;
      (2)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage; or
      (3)   Essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tend to depreciate the value of property of others.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon. The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb or property of, or cause hurt, damage or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment
by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger that it will
catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents or insects, or
blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk or property of another.
   (C)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which creates
a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
   (D)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of 10 inches or more.
   (E)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (F)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage. The
growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interferes with
the use, construction or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes injury to
streets or sidewalks or constitutes an obstruction to drainage.
   (G)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors.
   (H)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in an
inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile parts
or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by the city
for the purposes.
(Am. Ord. G-D11, Series 2004-2005, passed 10-26-04; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-
2006, passed 10-25-05) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 RESERVED.
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is shown that a nuisance is associated with or caused by
the conduct of a business or activity licensed by the city and that the
existence of the nuisance presents an immediate threat to the public health,
safety or welfare, the City Council may suspend the license of the person or
persons conducting the business or activity.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause a notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee, or upon any responsible agent of the licensee, at
the premises where the licensed business or activity is being conducted. The
notice shall clearly inform the licensee of the reason for the suspension, and
the conditions that must be met for the suspension to be removed.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, and upon a showing that the nuisance
has been satisfactorily abated and that any other reasonable conditions set
forth in the notice have been met, the City Council may remove the suspension.
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $1,000 for each offense. Each
day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed 11-15-22)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
Fire Prevention Code
   
93.35   Adoption of the Kentucky Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention Code)
   
93.36   Designated enforcement officer
   
93.37   Permits, inspections and fees
   
93.38   Appeal process
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code and Standards of Safety; enforcement
agents, see §
150.01
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   FIREWORKS means any composition or device for the purpose of producing
a visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and
which meets the definition of
CONSUMER FIREWORKS as defined in division (B) of this section or DISPLAY
fireworks as defined in division (D) of this section and as set forth in the
United States Department of Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials
regulations. FIREWORKS does not include:
      (1)   Exception number 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to the regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in this subchapter, CONSUMER FIREWORKS means fireworks that
are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and that comply with the construction, chemical
composition, and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer Product
Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of
these devices are limited as enumerated in this section. Some small devices
designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500 and 1507, are classified as Division
1.4G explosives by the United States Department of Transportation, and include
the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations;
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch;
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch;
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch;
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect;
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device;
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function; and
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight;
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability;
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight;
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten “stars” (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals;
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term “mine” refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term “shell” refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A
mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The term “cake” refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground; and
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-fourths inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced;
and
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed in this section are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK
NOISEMAKERS and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the United States
Department of Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale,
possession, sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake- like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as
the pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in this subchapter, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means pyrotechnic
devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes, but is
not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130 milligrams)
of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of
pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as “consumer fireworks”. DISPLAY FIREWORKS are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500 and 1507, and
are classified as Class B explosives by the United States Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) are not legal for retail sale but
are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the purposes
specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold at wholesale as
provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use or explode,
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department, or Mayor, or similar official
where there is no fire department, may grant permits for supervised public
displays of fireworks by municipalities, fair associations, amusement parks,
and other organizations or groups of individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (3)   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (A)(1) of this section shall be issued only
to a competent display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This competent display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the state fire marshal
or local fire chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 – Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the state fire marshal at least 15 days
in advance of the date of the display. After the privilege is granted, sales,
possession, use, and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be lawful
for that purpose only. No permit granted under this division shall be
transferable. For the purposes of this division, PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS
shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials before a
proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the state fire marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this subsection.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit
as outlined in division (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present
the permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the United States Department of the Interior or any equivalent
or local agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
nonprofit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks as
defined in §
93.01 and as permitted pursuant to §
93.03.
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B) may be offered for sale, sold at retail or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the following requirements are met.
   (A)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B)(1) shall register annually with the State Fire Marshal, who may assess
a fee of no more than $100 for each site at which fireworks shall be sold. The
registration requirement under this section shall not apply to permanent
business establishments which are open year round and in which the sale of
fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business. Each location shall
be required to charge sales tax at the current rate imposed on retailers in KRS
139.200;
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) – Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition).
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
(KRS 227.715 (1), (7), (8))  (Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed 11-15-22)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his or her agents,
employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of
explosives or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or
industry, or gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or
chlorate, toy snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party
novelties, which contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of
explosive mixture, or shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or
blank cartridges for a show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in
athletics or sports, or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any
kind of fireworks provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly
out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this subchapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “display”
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) of this section shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter shall restrict a local government from
enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting the permit may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior or any material of
a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 93.35 ADOPTION OF THE KENTUCKY STANDARDS OF SAFETY (FIRE PREVENTION CODE).
   The Kentucky Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention Code) as promulgated in
815 KAR 10:060 (and any further amendments thereto) by the Commissioner of the
Department of Housing, Building, and Construction on the advice and
recommendation of the State Fire Marshal, is hereby adopted in full by the City
of Graymoor-Devondale, Jefferson County, of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
Copies of the code book are available through the Department of Housing,
Building, and Construction, 1047 US 127 South, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2011-2012, passed 10-25-11; Am. Ord. G-D5, Series 2012-2013,
passed 4-23-13)
§ 93.36 DESIGNATED ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Fire Chief of the Lyndon Fire Protection District, or the Fire Chief’s
designated representative is the local enforcement agent for the Standards of
Safety as adopted by the city.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2011-2012, passed 10-25-11; Am. Ord. G-D5, Series 2012-2013,
passed 4-23-13)
§ 93.37 PERMITS, INSPECTIONS AND FEES.
   The requirements for permits, inspections and fees shall be as provided for
pursuant to 815 KAR 10:060, Kentucky Standards of Safety and stipulated in the
schedule attached to the ordinance codified herein. Failure to pay fees as
provided shall be considered a violation in itself as allowed under the
Standards of Safety. Municipal, state and federal government entities shall be
exempt for all fees. Inspections shall be conducted at least annually or as
often as is practicable. An inspection permit will be issued upon compliance.
Inspection permits shall not be transferable and shall be valid for a period of
time set forth on the permit. The business occupying a space shall be
responsible for complying with this subchapter and regulations and fees
established here-in.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2011-2012, passed 10-25-11; Am. Ord. G-D5, Series 2012-2013,
passed 4-23-13)
§ 93.38 APPEAL PROCESS.
   All final decisions of the fire code official having jurisdiction shall be
appealable Jefferson County Court with appropriate jurisdiction within 30 days
thereafter.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2011-2012, passed 10-25-11; Am. Ord. G-D5, Series 2012-2013,
passed 4-23-13)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.04, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both. (KRS 227.990 (4))
   (B)   Each violation of §§
93.35 through
93.38 constitutes a Class B Misdemeanor carrying a penalty not to exceed 90
days imprisonment and/or $350 in fines. Each day shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $1,000.
(Am. Ord. G-D5, Series 2011-2012, passed 10-25-11; Am. Ord. G-D5, Series 2012-
2013, passed 4-23-13; Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed 11-15-22)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk
or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in vehicles
provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of
the contents from falling or being thrown, blown or deposited upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place. Any materials which fall from, or which
are thrown, blown or deposited from any vehicle upon any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place, shall be removed immediately by the person in
charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in a manner that litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, other public
places or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $1,000. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed 11-15-22)
CHAPTER 95: COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES FRANCHISE
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Declaration of findings
   
95.02   Title
   
95.03   Applicability
   
95.04   Preservation of authority
   
95.05   Public inspection of records
   
95.06   Indemnification
   
95.07   Compliance with laws
   
95.08   Enforcement; attorneys’ fees
   
95.09   Relationship of the parties
   
95.10   Definitions
Communications Services
   
95.20   Unlawful to operate without a franchise
   
95.21   Franchises nonexclusive
   
95.22   Nature of rights granted by any franchise
   
95.23   Application and application fee required
   
95.24   Standards and procedures for approval or renewal of franchises
   
95.25   Acceptance and effective date of franchise
   
95.26   Cable service and open video systems (OVS); separate franchise required
   
95.27   Use of rights-of-way; police powers; franchisee’s use subordinate
   
95.28   Emergencies
   
95.29   Term
   
95.30   Communications franchise fees
   
95.31   Holders of multiple franchises
   
95.32   Timing of payment of communications franchise fees
   
95.33   Interest on late payments and under payments
   
95.34   Fee statement
   
95.35   No accord and satisfaction
   
95.36   Description of service
   
95.37   Communications franchise fee not a tax; payment of taxes
   
95.38   Assignment of franchise
   
95.39   Forfeiture of franchise and privilege
   
95.40   Security for payment of fees
   
95.41   Special rules for governmental entities
Rights-of-Way Management and Facilities Requirements
   
95.50   Additional facilities requirements; planned infrastructure
   
95.51   Removal of facilities
   
95.52   Relocation of facilities
   
95.53   Franchise responsible for costs
   
95.54   Insurance and bonds
   
95.55   Permits
   
95.56   Notification
   
95.57   Underground construction
   
95.58   Aerial construction
   
95.59   Standards
   
95.60   Traffic
   
95.61   Delay
   
95.62   Special exceptions
   
95.63   Inspections
   
95.64   Repair of sunken pavement over excavation
Miscellaneous
   
95.70   Administration of franchise
   
95.71   Non-enforcement by the city
   
95.72   Publication of notices
   
95.73   Severability
Private Communications Facilities
   
95.80   Application for license
   
95.81   Conditions of license
   
95.82   Compensation
Enforcement
   
95.90   Liabilities and penalties
   
95.91   Remedies not exclusive
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 DECLARATION OF FINDINGS.
   The city hereby declares as a legislative finding that the rights-of-way
within the city:
   (A)   Are a unique and physically limited resource;
   (B)   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in
the city;
   (C)   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
   (D)   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and public
service entities, to the enhancement of the health, welfare, and general
economic well being of the city and its citizens; and
   (E)   Should be subject to specific additional regulations imposed in a
competitively neutral and non-discretionary manner as established by this
chapter to ensure coordination of user’s, maximize available space, and
facilitate entry of a maximum number of providers of communications and other
services in the public interest.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.02 TITLE.
   This chapter may be referred to and cited as the “Communications Services
Franchise Ordinance”.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.03 APPLICABILITY.
   The requirements of this chapter shall apply to the full extent of the terms
herein and shall be limited in scope or application only to the extent as may
be required by applicable federal or state law, including such changes in
applicable law as may be hereinafter enacted. No provisions of this chapter
shall be disregarded pursuant to this section except on express application to
and determination by the city to such effect based on the specific factual
circumstances demonstrated. The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
incorporated in each communications franchise granted.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.04 PRESERVATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Any rights granted pursuant to this chapter and pursuant to any franchise
authorized hereunder are subject to the authority of the city to adopt and
enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
Franchisees and other holders of franchises shall be subject to and comply with
all applicable laws enacted by the city pursuant to its Home Rule or statutory
powers, to the extent not in conflict with Kentucky or federal law. Nothing in
this chapter shall be deemed to waive a right, if any, that any party may have
to seek judicial or regulatory review as to the provisions herein or as to
actions of the parties under applicable federal, state, or local law currently
in effect or as may hereinafter be amended.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.05 PUBLIC INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   Certain information required to be filed with the city pursuant to this
chapter is subject to inspection and copying by the public pursuant to the
provisions of the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 et seq.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.06 INDEMNIFICATION.
   As a condition of use of the rights-of-way, each franchisee at its sole cost
and expense, shall indemnify, protect, defend (with counsel acceptable to the
city) and hold harmless the city, its elected officials, officers, employees,
and agents, from and against any and all claims, demands, losses, damages,
liabilities, fines, charges, penalties, administrative and judicial proceedings
and orders, judgments, remedial actions of any kind, and all costs and expenses
of any kind, including, without limitation, reasonable attorney’s fees and
costs of defense arising, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, out of
or in relation to the city’s award of the franchise, the rights granted to the
franchisee, or the activities performed, or failed to be performed, by such
franchisee under the franchise or use of the rights-of-way, except to the
extent such acts or use arise from or are caused by the negligence or willful
misconduct of the city, its elected officials, officers, or employees. This
indemnification shall survive the expiration or termination of any franchise or
use of the rights-of-way.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.07 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   In performing activities and exercising rights and obligations under any
franchise, each franchisee and other holder of a franchise shall comply with
all applicable federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulations and
policies, including, but not limited to, all laws, ordinances, regulations and
policies relating to construction and use of public property.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.08 ENFORCEMENT; ATTORNEYS’ FEES.
   The city shall be entitled to enforce this chapter and any franchise through
all remedies lawfully available, and each franchisee shall pay the city its
costs of enforcement, including but not limited to reasonable attorneys’ fees,
in the event that franchisee is determined judicially to have violated the
terms of this chapter or any franchise.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.09 RELATIONSHIP OF THE PARTIES.
   Under no circumstances shall any franchise authorized by this chapter be
construed to create any relationship of agency, partnership, joint venture, or
employment between the parties.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the singular number include
the plural number, and words in the plural number include the singular. The
words “shall” and “will” are mandatory, and “may” is permissive. Words not
defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   AFFILIATE. As to any person, each person, directly or indirectly,
controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such person.
   ANTENNA. Any device that transmits or receives signals. Such signals include
but are not limited to radio and infrared for voice, data or video
communications purposes.
   CABLE FRANCHISE. The rights and obligations extended by the city to a person
to own, lease, construct, maintain, or operate a cable system in the rights-of-
way within the franchise area for the purpose of providing cable services.
   CABLE INTERNET SERVICES. The provision by a person of access to the Internet
or any Intranet to customers over a cable system and shall include the
provision of incidental services that are required by law to be treated under
the same regulation as such direct access service. The city shall treat cable
internet services as a cable service unless it is definitively determined under
applicable law that cable internet service is not a cable service, in which
case any person providing or wishing to provide cable internet services shall
obtain a separate communications franchise from the city. All prior payments to
the city attributable to cable internet service under a cable franchise shall
be irrefutably deemed to be lawful compensation, irrespective of any rates or
terms required for any future use under any new communications franchise.
   CABLE SERVICES shall have the same meaning as is ascribed to the term “Cable
Service” at 47 USC 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM shall have the same meaning as is ascribed to the term “Cable
System” at 47 USC 522(7).
   COMMUNICATIONS. The transmission via the facilities, in whole or in part,
between or among points specified by the user, of information of the user’s
choosing (e.g., data, video, voice), without
change in the form or content of the information as sent and received,
regardless of the statutory or regulatory scheme to which such transmissions
may be subject.
   COMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE. A franchise for use of the rights-of-way for
communications services as authorized herein and executed by the city and
franchisee.
   COMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE FEE. The fee imposed by the city on franchisee for
use of the rights-of-way pursuant to a communications franchise granted under
this chapter.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The transmission via facilities, in whole or in
part, of any writings, signs, signals, pictures, sounds or other forms of
intelligence through wire, wireless or other means, including, but not limited
to, any “telecommunications service,” “enhanced service,” “information
service,” or “Internet service,” as such terms are now, or may in the future
be, defined under federal law, and including all instrumentality, facilities,
conduit, apparatus (“communications facilities”), and services (among other
things, the receipt, forwarding, and delivery of telecommunications) incidental
to or designed to directly or indirectly facilitate or accept such
transmission. This term does not include cable service or open video system
service, but cable services and open video system service shall be subject to
separate franchising requirements and applications. This term does not include
over the air radio or television broadcasts to the public at large licensed by
the FCC or any successor thereto.
   CITY. The City of Graymoor-Devondale.
   FACILITIES. Any portion of a system located in, along, over, upon, under, or
through the rights-of-way.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States of America
or any successor thereto.
   FRANCHISE. A communications franchise as defined herein or any other
franchise granted by the city pursuant to Sections 163 and 164 of the Kentucky
Constitution or by the Kentucky General Assembly prior to the adoption of
Sections 163 and 164 of the Kentucky Constitution which permits the use of the
rights-of-way for communications services. Use of this definition in this
chapter is not intended to include any license or permit for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the city, as may be required by
any other ordinance or laws of the city or the state.
   FRANCHISE AREA. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable franchise,
means the entire area of the city as it is now constituted or may in the future
be constituted, except that such area shall not include any area within another
municipality within the city.
   FRANCHISEE. The party subject to a communications franchise, or its
successors, assigns, or transferees.
   LESSEE. A person who provides communications services within the city solely
by leasing facilities and who has no control over what, where or how any
facilities are erected, installed, maintained, operated, repaired, removed,
restored or otherwise used.
   OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM (OVS) SERVICE. Shall have the same meaning as is ascribed
to the term at 47 USC 573.
   PRIVATE COMMUNICATION SYSTEM. A system used by a person solely in connection
with such person’s business, provided that such person does not use, or permit
the use of, such system to provide communications services to any other person.
   PRIVATE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OWNER. A person that owns or leases a private
communications system.
   RENEWAL. A new communications franchise granted to an existing franchisee.
   RESELLER SERVICE PROVIDER. A person who provides communications services
within the city solely by reselling communications services and who has no
control over what, where or how any facilities are erected, installed,
maintained, operated, repaired, removed, restored or otherwise used.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The surface and space on, above and below every street,
alley, road, highway, lane or other public right-of-way dedicated or commonly
used now or hereafter for utility purposes and facilities thereon, including,
but not limited to, overhead lighting facilities. Rights-of-way shall not
include public property owned or leased by the city and not intended for
rights-of-way use, including, but not limited to, parks or public works
facilities.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   SYSTEM. Any and all equipment, structures, materials or tangible components
located in the rights-of-way and used to provide communications services,
including without limitation all plant (whether inside or outside), cabinets,
surface location markers, fiber strands, electronic equipment, amplification
equipment, optic equipment, transmission and distribution structures, antennae,
lines, pipes, mains, conduit, ducts, regenerators, repeaters, vaults,
pedestals, manholes, handholds, pull boxes, splice closures, wires, cables,
towers, wave guides, and anything else designed and constructed for the purpose
of producing, receiving, amplifying or distributing communications services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 coded at Title 47
of the United States Code.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
§ 95.20 UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE WITHOUT A FRANCHISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, install, maintain, operate,
repair, replace, remove or restore communications facilities or to provide
communications services by use of facilities in the rights-of-way in the city
without a valid, unexpired franchise from the city, unless otherwise
specifically authorized under applicable federal or state law, or otherwise
provided by ordinance. Unless otherwise provided hereinafter by the city
ordinance, reseller service providers and lessees shall not be required to
obtain a franchise. Private communication systems shall not require a
franchise, but shall be licensed pursuant to §§
95.80 through
95.82. A cable operator, or an affiliate thereof, that provides cable services
as herein defined under a valid cable franchise granted by the city, shall not
be required to obtain a communications franchise hereunder; provided, however,
if a cable operator, or an affiliate thereof, extends facilities in the right-
of-way solely for the provision of telecommunications services then it shall
pay the linear per foot fee as set forth in this subchapter, if no revenue for
the computation of cable franchise fees are received from such extended
facilities.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.21 FRANCHISES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The authority granted by the city in any franchise shall be for the
nonexclusive use of the rights-of-way. The city specifically reserves the right
to grant, at any time, such additional franchises or other rights to use the
rights-of-way for any purpose to any other person, including itself, as it
deems appropriate, subject to all applicable laws.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.22 NATURE OF RIGHTS GRANTED BY ANY FRANCHISE.
   Franchises shall not convey title, equitable or legal, in the rights-of-way,
and shall give only the right to occupy rights-of-way, for the purposes and for
the period stated in this chapter and as may be further limited by the
franchise. No franchise may excuse franchisee from obtaining appropriate access
or attachment agreements before locating its facilities on another person’s
facilities. All franchises shall be deemed to incorporate and be limited by the
provisions of this chapter and shall create rights inuring solely to the
benefit of the franchisee.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.23 APPLICATION AND APPLICATION FEE REQUIRED.
   Applications for an original communications franchise granted hereunder
shall be filed with the city with ten additional copies. All applications
received by the city from the applicants will become the sole property of the
city. Applicants shall submit all requested information as provided by the
terms of this chapter. The following information must be complete and verified
as true by the applicant:
   (A)   Filing fee. Applications shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
application fee of $1,000 payable to the city. Said application fee shall
defray in whole or part the city’s costs to process any application filed under
this chapter and negotiate, award and administer any franchise. Said
application fee shall not be considered communications franchise fee payments.
   (B)   Name and address of applicant. The applicant’s name, address, e-mail
address and telephone and facsimile numbers; date of application and signature
of applicant or appropriate corporate officer(s); the name, address and e-mail
address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of a local representative who
shall be available at all times; and information regarding how to contact the
local representative in an emergency.
   (C)   Description of proposed system. A description of the applicant’s
proposed system design.
   (D)   Services. A statement setting forth a description of all the types of
services proposed.
   (E)   Applicant organization. The applicant shall be a corporation or
limited liability company authorized to do business in the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, as certified by the Secretary of State. Applicant must fully disclose
the ownership of the facilities to be used in rendering the service.
   (F)   Technical description. Applicant shall provide a technical description
of the type of system proposed by the applicant and applicant’s plan for the
installation of the system. The following information shall be included in the
application:
      (1)   If the applicant is proposing an underground installation in
existing ducts or conduits within the rights-of-way, information in sufficient
detail to identify the location of the existing ducts or conduits to be
occupied.
      (2)   If applicant is proposing an underground installation within new
ducts or conduits to be constructed within the rights-of-way:
         (a)   The location, depth, size and quantity of proposed new ducts or
conduits;
         (b)   A preliminary installation schedule and completion date.
   (G)   Engineering statement. A statement from the applicant’s senior
technical staff member, or consultant, advising that the applicant’s planned
system and operations thereof would meet all the requirements set forth herein.
   (H)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   Supplementary, additional or other information that the applicant
deems reasonable for consideration may be submitted at the same time as its
application but must be separately bound and
submitted with the above number of copies. The city may, at its discretion,
consider such additional information as part of the application.
      (2)   Applications may be modified at any time prior to the opening of
the applications, provided that any modifications must be duly executed in the
manner that the applicant’s application must be executed.
      (3)   A copy of the applicant’s certificate of authority from the Public
Service Commission (“PSC”) where the applicant is lawfully required to have
such certificate from the PSC.
      (4)   A copy of the applicant’s certificate of authority from the FCC
where the applicant is lawfully required to have such certificate from the FCC.
      (5)   A copy of all insurance policies and certificates required under
this chapter.
      (6)   A statement signed by the applicant that the applicant agrees to be
bound by all provisions of the franchise and agrees to obtain all applicable
permits and authorizations prior to constructing, installing, or operating a
system in the right-of-way.
      (7)   The information provided by applicant shall be certified as true
and correct and applicant shall be responsible to certify to the city any
material changes to the information provided in the completed application
during the term of any franchise.
   (I)   Supplementation to applications. The city reserves the right to
require such supplementary, additional or other information that it deems
reasonably necessary for its determinations.
   (J)   The city’s rights reserved. The city reserves the right to waive all
formalities and/or technicalities where the best interest of the city may be
served.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.24 STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL OR RENEWAL OF FRANCHISES.
   Franchises shall be granted in accordance with Kentucky Constitution
Sections 163 and 164. The city shall authorize franchises or renewals to any
eligible franchisee for the right and privilege to construct, own, operate,
repair, replace and maintain facilities in, through and along the city’s
rights-of-way for the purposes of providing communications services on a
nonexclusive basis within the city, subject, however, to the standards, terms
and conditions herein set forth within this chapter, which shall be deemed
incorporated therein, and any special conditions as may be provided for in the
franchise. All franchisees shall be required to obtain and maintain any
necessary and lawful permit, license certification, grant, registration or any
other authorization required by any appropriate governmental entity, including,
but not limited to, the city, the FCC and the Kentucky Public Service
Commission. The city may establish standard franchises setting forth the
minimum requirements for all franchisees.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.25 ACCEPTANCE AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF FRANCHISE.
   Any franchise granted hereunder, together with the rights, privileges and
authority granted thereby, shall take effect and be in force from and after the
effective date of a resolution granting a franchise hereunder, provided that on
or before said date franchisee shall:
   (A)   Enter into and execute such contracts and documents as required by the
city that are consistent with the terms and provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   File certificates of insurance as set forth in this chapter;
   (C)   File such bond or bonds as required in this chapter; and
   (D)   Advise the Mayor in writing of franchisee’s address for mail and
official notifications from the city.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.26 CABLE SERVICE AND OPEN VIDEO SYSTEMS (OVS); SEPARATE FRANCHISE
REQUIRED.
   A communications franchise shall not permit a franchisee to provide cable
services as a cable operator (as defined by 47 USC § 522(5)) within the city.
Upon a franchisee’s request for a franchise to provide cable services as a
cable operator (as defined by 47 USC § 522(5)) within the city, the city shall
timely negotiate such cable franchise in good faith with the franchisee. A
communications franchise shall also not permit a franchisee to operate an open
video system. A person may operate an open video system only if that person
obtains a separate franchise permitting same, and such person remits the
maximum fees permitted by 47 USC § 573(c)(2)(B) and where such person otherwise
complies with FCC regulations promulgated pursuant to 47 USC § 573. Absent such
applicable separate franchise from the city, a franchisee shall be prohibited
from offering OVS service and any such service shall be considered a breach of
its franchise.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.27 USE OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY; POLICE POWERS; FRANCHISEE’S USE SUBORDINATE.
   A franchisee shall construct and maintain its facilities in accordance with
all applicable federal, state and local laws, including all permit
requirements, and fee payments, and all other city codes and ordinances in
effect as of the date of the award of its franchise or thereafter adopted to
the extent not in contravention of state or federal law. The grant of a
franchise does not in any way affect the continuing authority of the city
through the proper exercise of its Home Rule or statutory powers to adopt and
enforce ordinances necessary to provide for the health, safety and welfare of
the public. The city makes no express or implied representation or warranty
regarding its rights to authorize the installation or construction of
facilities on any particular segment of rights-of-way. The burden and
responsibility for making all such determinations in advance of construction or
installation shall be entirely upon the franchise. The use of the rights -of-
way authorized by any franchise shall in all matters be subordinate to the
city’s use and rights therein. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing:
   (A)   All rights and privileges granted herein are subject to the police
powers of the city and its rights under applicable laws and regulations to
regulate the construction, operation, and maintenance of franchisee’s system,
including, but not limited to, the right to adopt and enforce additional
ordinances and regulations as the city shall find necessary in the exercise of
its police powers, the right to adopt and enforce applicable zoning, building,
permitting and safety ordinances and regulations, the right to adopt and
enforce regulations relating to equal employment opportunities and the right to
adopt and enforce ordinances and regulations containing rights-of-way,
communications, and utility standards.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to exercise its police powers,
notwithstanding anything in this chapter and in any franchise to the contrary.
Any conflict between the provisions of this chapter or a franchise and any
other present or future lawful exercise of the city’s police powers shall be
resolved in favor of the latter.
   (C)   Franchisee shall not be excused from complying with any of the
requirements of this chapter or any subsequently adopted amendments to this
chapter, by any failure of the city on any one or more occasions to seek, or
insist upon, compliance with such requirements or provisions.
   (D)   If federal or state law alter the required services, fees, costs,
conditions or standards upon which the communications system is to operate, the
city shall have the right to amend this chapter to make it consistent with the
modified federal or state laws.
   (E)   Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to any
present and future legislation or resolution, which may be enacted by the city.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.28 EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Franchisee shall assign a management level person to coordinate with,
and assist the city’s Emergency Management Agency, in the development of
emergency plans.
   (B)   If at any time, in case of fire or disaster in the city, it shall
become necessary in the reasonable judgment of the city, to cut or move any
facilities, such cutting or moving may be done and any repairs rendered
necessary thereby shall be made by franchisee, at its sole expense.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.29 TERM.
   A franchise shall be effective for a term of ten years from its effective
date.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.30 COMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE FEES.
   Franchisee shall pay to the city as annual compensation for the use of the
rights-of-way a communication franchise fee equal to:
   (A)   $100 per antenna in the rights-of-way; plus
   (B)   A fee equal to the lesser of $10,000 or the sum of the following:
      (1)   For each single cable, wire, fiber, conduit or other linear
facility, or bundle of the same up to two inches in diameter placed above-
ground, $1 per foot of rights-of-way on which it is placed or over which it is
suspended; plus
      (2)   For each bundle of cable, wire, fiber, conduit or other linear
facility greater than two inches in diameter placed above ground, $.50 per foot
of rights-of-way on which it is placed or over which it is suspended; plus
      (3)   For each single cable, wire, fiber, conduit or other linear
facility, or aggregate of the same placed below-ground contemporaneously, $.50
per foot of rights-of-way used to accommodate the same.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.31 HOLDERS OF MULTIPLE FRANCHISES.
   Persons holding a communications franchise and also a cable franchise shall
fairly and accurately apportion and attribute revenues received to the various
services offered.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.32 TIMING OF PAYMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE FEES.
   Unless otherwise agreed to in writing, all communications franchise fees
shall be due and payable on a quarterly basis and payment shall be made on or
before the date which is 30 calendar days after the last day of the calendar
quarter for which the payment applies (the “due date”); provided, however, that
in the event that a franchisee ceases to provide service for any reason
(including as a result of a transfer), such franchisee shall make a final
payment of any amounts owed to the city on or before the date which is 30
calendar days after the date on which its operations in the city cease (which
shall be deemed a “due date” for purposes of this subchapter).
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.33 INTEREST ON LATE PAYMENTS AND UNDER PAYMENTS.
   If any communications franchise fee, or any portion thereof, is not received
by the city on or before the due date, interest thereon shall accrue from the
due date until received, at the rate of 1.5% per month, unless such other
maximum rate is established by applicable law.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.34 FEE STATEMENT.
   Each communications franchise fee payment shall be accompanied by a
statement (a “fee statement”) showing the manner in which the communications
franchise fee was calculated. Within 90 calendar days following the end of the
calendar year, each franchisee shall submit a statement, certified as true,
setting forth the amount of linear foot and antennae within the facilities
provided, however, that in the event that a franchisee ceases to provide
service for any reason (including as a result of a transfer), such franchisee
shall provide such a statement within 30 calendar days after the date on which
its operations in the city cease.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.35 NO ACCORD AND SATISFACTION.
   No acceptance by the city of any communications franchise fee or any other
payment shall be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the
correct amount, nor shall acceptance of any communications franchise fee or any
other payment be construed as a release of any claim of the city.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.36 DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE.
   During the term of the franchise, franchisee shall provide the city with a
description of any material changes to the types of communications services
offered within the city during the prior year. Any individual service or item
for which the franchisee has a separate charge shall be considered a separate
service.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.37 COMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE FEE NOT A TAX; PAYMENT OF TAXES.
   The communications franchise fee is compensation for the use of the rights-
of-way and shall in no way be deemed a tax of any kind. The communications
franchise fees required herein shall be in addition to, not in lieu of; all
taxes, charges, assessments, licenses, fees and impositions otherwise
applicable that are or may be imposed by the city. A franchisee shall be fully
responsible for the payment of all applicable taxes.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.38 ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE.
   A franchisee shall provide the city with written notice of any transfer of
the franchise. A franchisee shall not sell, assign, sublet, dispose of or
otherwise transfer a franchise (or any of the rights or privileges granted by
such franchise) to another entity, without the prior written consent of the
city. The city’s consent to such a transfer shall not be withheld if the entity
would have qualified for an original franchise had it applied and if the entity
demonstrates it has the same insurance policies and bonds in place as is
required of the original franchisee. Nothing in any approval by the city of any
transfer pursuant to this section shall be construed to waive, release or
delegate any rights or powers of the city to hold the original franchisee
liable for any violation of its franchise.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.39 FORFEITURE OF FRANCHISE AND PRIVILEGE.
   In case of failure on the part of a franchisee, its successors and assigns,
to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or its franchise, or if
the franchisee, its successors and assigns, should do or cause to be done any
act or thing prohibited by or in violation of this chapter or the terms of its
franchise, the franchisee, its successors and assigns, shall forfeit all rights
and privileges permitted by this chapter and its franchise, and all rights
hereunder shall cease, terminate and become null and void, provided that said
forfeiture shall not take effect until the city shall carry out the following
proceedings: Before the city declares the forfeiture or revocation of a
franchise, it shall first serve a written notice upon the franchisee, setting
forth in detail the neglect or failure complained of, and the company shall
have 30 days thereafter, or such other reasonable period established by the
city, in which to cure the default by complying with the conditions of its
franchise and fully remedying any default or violation. If at the end of such
30 day or other reasonable period, the city determines that the conditions have
not been complied with, the city shall take action by an affirmative vote of a
majority of the Council present at the meeting and voting, to terminate the
franchise, setting out the grounds upon which the franchise is to be forfeited
or revoked. Nothing herein shell prevent the city from invoking any other
remedy available at law or in equity.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.40 SECURITY FOR PAYMENT OF FEES.
   Every franchisee shall provide to the city an irrevocable letter of credit
in the amount of $10,000 or one half of the annual franchise fee owed,
whichever is less, to secure the payment of the communications franchise fee
for the first two years of the franchise. After which, if there has been no
default in paying the franchise fee nor any late payment of the franchise fee,
the letter of credit shall be released.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.41 SPECIAL RULES FOR GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES.
   Nothing herein requires the city to apply the provisions of this chapter to
a governmental entity if the city determines that it is not in the public
interest to do so, and nothing in this chapter shall be read to require a
governmental entity to comply with this chapter where the city cannot enforce
the chapter against such entity as a matter of law. The city is authorized to
enter into agreements with other governmental agencies to facilitate the city’s
use and management of the rights-of-way, and such agreements shall be
enforceable according to their respective terms and notwithstanding any
provision of this chapter.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
RIGHTS-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT AND FACILITIES REQUIREMENTS
§ 95.50 ADDITIONAL FACILITIES REQUIREMENTS; PLANNED INFRASTRUCTURE.
   When a franchisee installs any new underground facilities, the franchisee
shall, unless waived by the city, simultaneously install conduit provided by
the city (“the city conduit”). The city shall reimburse franchisee for any
marginal or additional costs incurred by franchisee in connection with
installation of the city conduit. The city conduit shall be installed in
accordance with the city specifications and consistent with sound engineering
practice. No communications franchise fee shall apply to any of the city
conduit.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.51 REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   Upon expiration of a franchise, whether by lapse of time, by agreement
between the franchisee and the city, or by forfeiture thereof, the franchisee
shall remove, at its sole cost, from the rights-of-way any and all of its
facilities that are the subject of such franchise within a reasonable time
after such expiration, not to exceed 90 days, and, it shall be the duty of the
franchisee immediately upon such removal to restore the rights-of-way from
which the facilities are removed to as good condition as the same were before
the removal was effected and as required by the city. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the city may allow facilities to be left in place when the city
determines in its sole discretion that it is not practical or desirable to
require removal.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.52 RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   Whenever the city shall in its exercise of the public interest request of
the franchisee the relocation or reinstallation of any of its facilities, the
franchisee shall forthwith remove, relocate, or reinstall any such property as
may be reasonably necessary to meet the request and the cost of such
relocation, removal, or reinstallation of the facilities shall be the exclusive
obligation of such franchisee. A franchisee shall, upon request of any other
person requesting relocation of facilities and holding a validly issued
building or moving permit of the city, temporarily raise, lower, or relocate
its wires or other facilities as may be required for the person to exercise the
rights under the permit within 48 hours prior to the date upon which said
person intends to exercise its rights under said permit; provided, however,
that the franchisee may require such permit holder to make payment in advance
for any expenses incurred by said franchise pursuant to such person’s request.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.53 FRANCHISE RESPONSIBLE FOR COSTS.
   A franchisee shall be responsible for all reasonable costs incurred by the
city that are directly associated with the franchisee’s erecting, installing,
maintaining, operating, repairing, replacing, removing or restoring its
facilities in the rights-of-way. A franchisee shall be responsible for its own
costs incurred in removing or relocating its facilities when required by the
city due to the city requirements relating to maintenance and use of the
rights-of-way for the city purposes.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.54 INSURANCE AND BONDS.
   During the term of any franchise, a franchisee shall obtain and maintain at
its sole expense, all insurance and bonds required by this chapter. Nothing
contained in this chapter shall limit a franchisee’s liability to the city to
the limits of insurance certified or carried.
   (A)   All persons submitting an application for a franchise in accordance
herewith shall file with their applications performance bonds with a surety
company or trust company or companies as surety or sureties solely for the
protection of the city in an amount determined by the city to be reasonable for
the proposed scope of the system to be constructed. The determination of the
amount of the performance bond required shall be made in a nondiscriminatory
manner. Said performance bond shall provide for the faithful performance of
construction and installation, of franchise’s system. Two years after
demonstration of the completion of the construction of the system by franchisee
to the city, the city shall release the performance bond.
   (B)   Said performance bond shall indemnify the city in its own right and as
trustee, from any damages or losses arising out of the failure of franchisee to
faithfully perform and satisfactorily complete construction of the system in
accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   The failure of franchisee to comply with its obligations under this
chapter or the franchise as determined by the city shall entitle the city to
draw against said performance bond.
   (D)   The rights reserved to the city with respect to the performance bonds
required hereunder are in addition to all other rights of the city, whether
reserved by this chapter or authorized by law, and no action, proceeding or
exercise of a right with respect to such performance bond shall affect any
other rights the city may have.
   (E)   The performance bonds required hereunder shall not expire or be
materially altered without 30 days written notice and without securing and
delivering to the city a substitute, renewal and replacement bond in
conformance with this chapter. In the event the city does draw monies against
the performance bonds required hereunder, within ten days thereafter,
franchisee shall pay such funds to the bonding company as necessary to bring
said performance bonds back to the applicable principal, where it shall
continue to be maintained. The performance bonds required hereunder shall
contain the following endorsements:
      “It is hereby understood and agreed that this performance bond may not be
reduced, altered or canceled by Franchisee or the bonding company without
thirty (30) days written notice by certified mail to the City.”
   (F)   Immediately upon the effective date of the resolution granting a
franchise under this chapter, franchisee shall file with the city the following
liability insurance policies issued by a company authorized to do business in
the Commonwealth:
      (1)   General Liability: $1,000,000 each occurrence, $5,000,000
aggregate, against bodily injury, death, or property damage.
      (2)   Automobile Insurance: $1,000,000 each occurrence, and aggregate
against bodily injury, death, or property damage for any of franchisee’s owned
or leased motor vehicles used in the construction/installation of any lines,
facilities or equipment authorized by the franchise.
      (3)   Workers Compensation: The amount required by Kentucky Revised
Statutes.
   (G)   Franchisee shall maintain on file with the city a certified copy of
the insurance policy(s) specifically endorsed to include all liability assumed
by franchisee hereunder and a certificate of insurance certifying the coverage
required under this chapter, which certificate shall be subject to the approval
of the city as to the adequacy of the certificate and of the insurance
certified under the requirements of this chapter. Such policy(s) and
certificate shall be identified on their face by the name of franchisee, and
shall be submitted to the city, in accordance with the terms and conditions of
this chapter. Failure to maintain adequate insurance as required under this
chapter shall be deemed a breach of the franchise.
   (H)   Franchisee shall maintain public liability, property damage and other
insurance required by this chapter that protects franchisee and the city, its
officers, agents, employees and appointed and elected officials from any and
all claims for damages or personal injury including death, demands, actions,
and suits brought against any of them arising from operations under the
franchise or in connection therewith. This insurance coverage constitutes a
minimum requirement and shall in no way be deemed to lessen, limit or define
the liability of franchisee, related entities, its successors or assigns, under
the terms of the franchise.
   (I)   The city reserves the right to make increases in the amount of
insurance coverage referred to in this section at any time.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.55 PERMITS.
   Prior to performing any construction or installation work in the public
rights-of-way, franchisee shall apply to the city for a permit, and shall
include descriptive information about the specific location of any lines,
facilities, boxes, or related equipment. All terms and conditions of the permit
application shall apply and be adhered to.
   (A)   Franchisee shall furnish detailed plans of the work to be done within
the public rights-of-way and provide other such information as required by the
city.
   (B)   Franchisee shall coordinate any construction work with the public
rights-of-way with the city and shall begin construction work only after
approval of the city.
   (C)   All permits issued by the city shall be conspicuously displayed at all
times at the indicated work site and shall be available for inspection by the
city personnel.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.56 NOTIFICATION.
   Franchisee shall notify the city, in writing, at least 15 days prior to
construction. Such written notification shall contain the location of the
construction, the starting date and the estimated completion date.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.57 UNDERGROUND CONSTRUCTION.
   Except as provided in division (A) of this section, all of franchisee’s
facilities shall be installed underground and all street crossings installation
shall be made by trenchless technology.
   (A)   Franchisee shall register any and all underground line locations with
the local “Before You Dig” or “BUD” office for tracking specific underground
line locations.
   (B)   All backfilling and replacement of pavement shall be done by
franchisee:
      (1)   In accordance with the city requirements and all restoration work
shall be completed to the same or better condition than found; and
      (2)   To the satisfaction of the city, and, if not acceptable, may be
completed by the city at franchisee’s expense.
   (C)   At any time franchisee disturbs the yard, residence, or other real or
personal property in the city, franchisee shall ensure that the yard,
residence, or other personal property is returned, replaced, and/or restored to
a condition that is sufficiently comparable to the condition that existed prior
to the commencement of the work.
   (D)   The costs associated with both the disturbance and the return,
replacement, and/or restoration shall be borne by franchisee.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.58 AERIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   Aerial construction of facilities must be specifically authorized by the
city prior to construction and located to minimize interference with the other
uses of the rights-of-way and other public properties, and interference with
the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners whose property adjoins
any of the rights-of-way and other public properties. The decision to authorize
above ground construction shall be applied in a non-discriminatory manner. If
other franchisees have facilities above ground and there is capacity available,
above ground installations shall be permitted until such time as all
franchisees are required to relocate underground. Aerial facilities shall be
moved underground at franchisee’s own cost upon request from the city or when
other users of the same rights-of-way convert to underground facilities.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.59 STANDARDS.
   Any work required or performed pursuant to this chapter shall be done in
accordance with federal, state and local law, and the National Electric Code.
   (A)   In the event that franchisee leases space on the poles or in the
conduits of an electric or other utility, franchisee shall abide by the
construction and other requirements of said utility, and the granting of a
communications franchise by the city shall not be construed or interpreted in
any way to alleviate franchise’s responsibilities and obligations to the pole
or conduit owner.
   (B)   Franchisee, its contractors, sub-subcontractors and anyone directly or
indirectly employed by franchisee, shall conduct such operations so as to
promote and preserve the public safety and general welfare of the citizens of
the city.
   (C)   All construction, installation or maintenance by franchisee shall be
completed with diligence and with respect to all property, contracts, persons,
rights and the interests and rights of the public.
   (D)   During any phase of construction, installation, maintenance, and
repair of the system, franchisee shall use materials of good and durable
quality and all such work shall be performed in a safe, thorough, and reliable
manner.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.60 TRAFFIC.
   Franchisee’s work in the rights-of-way shall be accomplished with a minimum
of disruption and interference to the free flow of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic on the public rights-of-way or public land.
   (A)   Franchisee shall maintain lanes of vehicular traffic in each direction
at all times during construction, installation or maintenance activity.
   (B)   Traffic control devices to protect and control pedestrian and
vehicular traffic in any construction, maintenance or installation areas may be
prescribed by the city in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.61 DELAY.
   The city-required improvements to the city rights-of-way shall not be
delayed by work authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.62 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   The city may grant a special exception to the requirements of this chapter
if a franchisee, upon application, demonstrates with written evidence that:
   (A)   The exception will not create any threat to the public health, safety
or welfare;
   (B)   Franchisee demonstrates that the increased economic burden and the
potential adverse impact on franchisee’s construction schedule resulting from
the strict enforcement of the requirement actually or effectively prohibits the
ability of franchisee to provide communications services in the city; and
   (C)   Franchisee demonstrates that the requirement unreasonably
discriminates against franchisee in favor of another person.
   (D)   Any special exceptions shall be granted in a non-discnminatory manner.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.63 INSPECTIONS.
   All construction, installation and operation of franchisee’s system in the
rights-of-way are subject to inspection by the city.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.64 REPAIR OF SUNKEN PAVEMENT OVER EXCAVATION.
   In case the pavement or the surface of the rights-of-way over any excavation
should become depressed or broken at any time within five years after the
excavation has been completed and before resurfacing of the rights-of-way,
natural wear of the surface excepted, franchisee shall, upon written notice
from the city, immediately proceed to inspect the depressed or broken area over
the excavation to ascertain the cause of the failure. Franchisee shall make
repairs to the installation or backfill and have the pavement restored as
specified by the city, within such time period as may be specified by the city.
If the pavement is not restored as specified by the city within the time period
specified by the city, and unless delayed by a strike or conditions beyond
franchisee’s control, the city may cause the work to be done after giving
franchisee 24 hours final notice. The cost thereof, including, but not limited
to, any inspection costs and administrative overhead incurred by the city,
shall be assessed against franchisee.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 95.70 ADMINISTRATION OF FRANCHISE.
   The city shall be responsible for the continued administration of this
chapter and any franchises granted hereunder.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.71 NON-ENFORCEMENT BY THE CITY.
   A franchisee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter or its applicable franchise by reason of any
failure of the city to enforce prompt compliance.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.72 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   A franchisee shall be responsible for all costs of publication that may be
required with respect to its franchise or any amendments or renewals thereto.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.73 SEVERABILITY.
   If any material provision of this chapter or of any franchise granted
pursuant to it is held by a governmental authority of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid or unlawful as conflicting with applicable laws now or hereafter in
effect, or is held by a court or competent governmental authority to be
modified in any way in order to conform to the requirements of any such
applicable laws, such provision shall be considered a separate, distinct, and
independent part of this chapter or the franchise, and, to the extent possible,
such holding shall not affect the validity and enforceability of all other
provisions herein or therein.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
PRIVATE COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
§ 95.80 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   A person wishing to erect, install, maintain, operate, repair, replace,
remove or restore a private communications system in the rights-of-way must
obtain a license therefor from the city. Such license shall only authorize
placement of the private communications system in a specific portion of the
rights-of-way for a limited period of time and for a specific purpose in
connection with the person’s business and shall not permit the provision of
communications service to any other person. Such person shall submit an
application to the city on such form as may be developed by the city,
accompanied by such application fee as may be determined by the city.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.81 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   Any license shall be subject to such conditions as the city may from time to
time establish, shall be expressly subordinate to the use of the rights-of-way
by the city and franchisees, and shall otherwise conform to the requirements of
this chapter.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.82 COMPENSATION.
   A private communications system owner shall pay a fee established by the
city from time to time to reflect the fair market value of the property used.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 95.90 LIABILITIES AND PENALTIES.
   Except as expressly stated in this chapter, the express or implied repeal or
amendment by this chapter of any other ordinance or part thereof shall not
affect any liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or proceedings begun prior
to the effective date of this chapter. Those liabilities and penalties are
continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or
amended ordinance as if this chapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
§ 95.91 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The rights and remedies of the city and the franchisee as set forth in their
franchise, or in this chapter, shall be in addition to and not in limitation
of, any other rights and remedies provided by law or in equity.
(Ord. G-D13, Series 2005, passed 4-26-05)
CHAPTER 96: TEMPORARY STORAGE UNITS AND DUMPSTERS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Regulations
   
96.03   Exceptions
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DUMPSTERS. Storage container units designed for waste materials, not
including any of the containers provided by any waste disposal company hired by
the city for garbage, yard waste or recycling.
   TEMPORARY (OR PORTABLE) STORAGE UNITS or PODS. Any portable, weather-
resistant, on demand storage units designed and used primarily for the
temporary storage of building material, household goods, personal items and
other material on the limited basis. The term shall not include DUMPSTERS,
which are described separately herein.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2007-2008, passed 10-23-07)
§ 96.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Temporary storage units and temporary dumpsters in all zoning
districts shall be allowed only upon the issuance of a permit by the city.
Permits shall be displayed on the outside of the container in such manner as to
be plainly visible from the nearest street. The fee for permits shall be $100
per unit, except that there shall be no permit if such containers are to be
located on a site for less than ten days. There is a $25 per day charge after
ten days.
   (B)   Each permit application must be filled out and signed by the owners of
the lot on which the temporary storage unit is to be located and contain all
relevant contact information for both the owners and the company from which the
unit is to be rented. The permit application shall be accompanied by a drawing
showing where the unit is to be located and whenever possible, the unit must be
located on the lot behind the rear wall of the principal structure and on a
hard surface. Such unit shall be located no closer than ten feet to any
property line and shall not be located in any required rear, front, street-side
or side yard. If the lot configuration makes it impossible for that to occur, a
case by case review of the placement shall be made by the Mayor as to whether
to issue the permit for another location on the lot, given due regard to the
public health, safety and aesthetics.
   (C)   No temporary storage or dumpster unit may be used to contain any
hazardous material. Any possible hazardous material must be disclosed to the
city at the time the permit application is made for review by the property city
official, prior to the issuance of any permit.
   (D)   Storage and dumpster units must be in good condition, with no
significant rust or deterioration. They cannot be greater than eight feet in
height, ten feet in width and 20 feet in length. No more than two can be placed
on any residential lot at one time, except for commercially zoned properties,
provided they also meet the minimum requirement of the General Development/
Detailed Development Plans; binding elements, and current regulation of such
items in the Metro Louisville Zoning Regulations.
   (E)   Permits are good for a period of 20 days. There are no extensions.
Only one permit for each owner each year.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2007-2008, passed 10-23-07; Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023,
passed 11-15-22)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Commercially or industrial zoned property, which has properly applied
for and been granted by the Louisville Metro Zoning Authority the right to
locate temporary storage on the site, is exempt from this chapter as it relates
to storage units. This exemption is utterly conditional on full compliance with
the General Development/Detailed Development Plan for the site; binding
elements, and current regulation of such items in the Metro Louisville Zoning
Regulations.
   (B)   Commercial, office or multi-family zoned property whose garbage pickup
is through a permanent dumpster pickup is exempt from this chapter, as it
relates to dumpster units. This exemption is utterly conditional on full
compliance with the General Development/Detailed Development Plan for the site;
binding elements, and current regulation of such items in the Metro Louisville
Zoning Regulations.
   (C)   In the case of emergencies, such as floods, wind storms, fires or
other acts of God, or man-made disasters, the Mayor shall be allowed to suspend
the enforcement of this chapter as to the city as a whole, or areas of the
city, for a time period appropriate for the community to deal with such
emergency conditions.
   (D)   Due to the physical requirements of construction, or re-construction
of buildings and houses, special rules shall govern the both temporary storage
units and dumpsters at construction or re-construction sites. On any site on
which a building permit is to be issued, prior to the city issuing a letter of
compliance, the applicant shall submit all information required under §§
96.02(A) and (B) of this chapter, however, the Mayor is authorized to extend
the time the units may remain on site, the number of units allowed and the
locations they may be placed. This decision shall be made with due regard to
the physical limitation of the work to be accomplished on the site, on a case-
by-case basis.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2007-2008, passed 10-23-07)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a violation and fined not less than $50 nor more than $500.
      (2)   Where Kentucky Revised Statutes mandate a fine higher than that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in Kentucky Revised Statutes shall apply.
      (3)   Any continuing violation of this chapter shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense for each day on which a violation occurs or
continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed therefor.
   (B)   Civil.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to two times the
minimum fine prescribed in this chapter, with a minimum civil penalty of $100
for each violation.
      (2)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty
within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the violation. As used
herein, CITED shall mean notified of the violation and the penalty in writing
by an elected or appointed official of the city or the official attorney for
the city. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative to or in conjunction
with the criminal penalties authorized herein.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2007-2008, passed 10-23-07; Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023,
passed 11-15-22)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
115.   RENTAL PROPERTIES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Purpose
   
110.03   Levy of fees and taxes
   
110.04   Exempted activities
   
110.05   Filing of returns
   
110.06   Consolidation
   
110.07   Certificates; license year
   
110.08   New business
   
110.09   Temporary business
   
110.10   Separate licenses
   
110.11   Refunds
   
110.12   Schedule of fees
   
110.13   (Reserved)
   
110.14   Administration
   
110.15   Maintaining records
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Home Business Activity, see
Chapter 155
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. An enterprise, trade, activity, profession or undertaking of any
nature conducted by an individual, partnership, firm, joint venture,
association, corporation or any other entity, but shall not include the usual
activities of boards of trade, chambers of commerce, trade associations or
unions or other associations performing the services usually performed by trade
associations or unions, community chest funds or foundations, corporations or
associations organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable,
scientific, literary, educational or civic purposes, or for the prevention of
cruelty to children or animals, or clubs or fraternal organizations operated
exclusively for social, literary, educational or fraternal purposes, where no
part of the earnings or income or receipts for the units, groups or
associations inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
   BUSINESS YEAR. The year, whether fiscal or calendar, adopted by the business
in question.
   NEW BUSINESS. A business that was not in operation on July 1 of the license
period.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, firm, joint venture, fiduciary,
association or corporation. Whenever PERSON is used in any clause prescribing
and imposing a penalty in the nature of a fine, the work, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise shall mean the partners
or members thereof and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   RECEIPTS. Money or other property of value.
(Ord. G-D, Series 1989, passed - -89)
§ 110.02 PURPOSE.
   The license fees collected under this chapter shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the city to be used for the general operating expenses of the
city.
(Ord. G-D, Series 1989, passed - -89)
§ 110.03 LEVY OF LICENSE FEES AND TAXES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or engage in any
business or other activity for profit or gain or to sell or offer for sale any
article of goods, wears or merchandise within the city until that person has
paid the required business license fee to the City Clerk for the privilege of
engaging in the activity and has obtained the required license therefor.
   (B)   Where gross receipts are earned for work done or services performed or
rendered both within and without the city. The license fee shall be measured by
the part of the gross receipts as are earned as a result of work done or
services rendered or performed in the city. The license fee shall be computed
by obtaining the percentage which the compensation for work performed or
services rendered within the city bears to the total compensation earned.
Within 30 days after the close of each fiscal year, the licensee shall, on a
form furnished by the City Clerk, file an accurate declaration of the gross
receipts for his or her business and at that time pay the difference, if any,
between the amount paid with his or her return which was filed the preceding
year.
(Ord. G-D, Series 1989, passed - -89) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 EXEMPTED ACTIVITIES.
   Any nonprofit, religious and charitable organization and agents thereof
shall be exempt from all provisions of this chapter, if the organization is
exempt from the payment of taxes pursuant to federal or state law. In addition,
any home business, operated and regulated under Metro County ordinances and if
operated and regulated in compliance with County or Metro ordinances is exempt
from this license fee ordinance.
(Ord. G-D, Series 1989, passed - -89; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-2006, passed
10-25-05)
§ 110.05 FILING RETURNS.
   (A)   On or before July 1 of each year, each person subject to the payment
of a license fee or tax under this chapter shall make an annual report to the
city, on a form furnished by the City Clerk, showing that business’s gross
receipts within the city during that business’s preceding business year. That
person shall state on the form the amount of gross receipts in the city which
the business reported to the federal government on its income tax return for
that year. The report on the form shall be signed by that licensee, or his or
her agent, subject to penalties for perjury if the statements contained therein
are not true and correct. The amount of the license tax for the current year
shall be based on the gross receipts in that business’s preceding business
year. The person making the return shall, at the time of the filing thereof,
pay to the City Clerk the amount of the license fees shown as due thereon. No
partial payment shall be allowed or accepted.
   (B)   All license fees shall be due and payable on July 1 of each year. Fees
not paid by August 1 shall be delinquent and shall be increased by the
assessment of a 10% penalty and interest at 18% per annum. Notices of
delinquency shall be sent by August 1 and the following January 1 by the City
Clerk to any business whose license tax or fees have not been paid.
   (C)   The City Council shall have the authority to extend the time for
filing the return. The extension shall be on the written request of the
licensee. However, any balance unpaid when the payment is due under the terms
of this chapter, shall bear interest at the rate of 18% per annum until paid. A
late penalty of 1% per month, or fraction of month, to a maximum penalty of 5%
shall be assessed in connection with an extension of time for filing against
any license tax balance unpaid when payment is due unless the extension granted
is for no more than 30 days or unless the application for extension is
accompanied by payment of an estimated tax in an amount not less the 90% of the
total tax as finally determined.
   (D)   The information in returns filed by persons subject to license taxes
under this chapter shall be confidential as respecting the business of any
person and shall be made available only to officers and employees of the city
whose official duties require the use of the information and on a confidential
basis, to the Secretary of the Kentucky Revenue Cabinet or to employees in his
or her department in reciprocation for access to the confidential files under
his or her supervision. The city may publish statistics based on information in
the returns in a manner as not to reveal data respecting the business of any
particular person.
   (E)   The entire gross receipts derived from business must be reported. If
it is contended that any portion of the receipts does not constitute receipts
from business within the meaning of this chapter or the taxpayer hereunder
questions the taxability of any of the items reported. There shall be attached
to the return a detailed statement presenting a breakdown of the receipts, the
source from which they were derived and reasons supporting the contentions. If
as a result of an investigation conducted by the City Clerk a return is found
to be incorrect, the City Clerk is authorized to assess and collect any
underpayments of the license fee with respect to net profits. If no return has
been filed and a license fee is found to be owing, the fee actually owing may
be assessed and collected with or without the formality of obtaining a
delinquent return from the licensee.
(Ord. G-D, Series 1989, passed - -89)
§ 110.06 CONSOLIDATION.
   If a person liable for the tax hereunder during any year or portion of a
year acquired the assets of or merges or consolidates his or her business with
the business of any other person or persons, the person liable for the tax
shall report the receipts for the year of the other person or persons together
with his or her own gross receipts during the year.
(Ord. G-D, Series 1989, passed - -89)
§ 110.07 CERTIFICATES; LICENSE YEAR.
   (A)   (1)   Every person desiring to obtain a city license fee permit shall
apply for a certificate therefor to the City Clerk. Pursuant to payment of the
requisite license fee, a license certificate shall be issued. The certificate
shall be evidence of the fact that the license tax has been fully paid. The
license certificate shall be void and of no effect without the signature of the
City Clerk. A license certificate shall be issued to each person paying a
license tax due under this chapter for a license year, or remaining portion of
a license year in the case of a new business. The certificate shall show the
year for which it is issued, the name of the person to whom issued, and the
address or location of the place of business being licensed.
      (2)   Any license or permit issued hereunder shall not be transferrable
to any other party. Upon the sale, transfer or cessation of any business, any
permit or license which may have been issued previously for that business shall
be immediately null and void, all cost of which is to be considered fully
earned by the city and the license or permit expired.
      (3)   Every person licensed to conduct a business within the city shall
display the license in a conspicuous place where the licensed business is being
conducted or if the licensee is a transient or operates from place to place on
foot or by vehicle, then the licensee shall carry the certificate on his or her
person or display the certificate in the vehicle. Every person doing business
within the city shall produce the license for inspection whenever required to
do so by any officer of the city.
      (4)   The licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
for the license year beginning on July 1 of each year and expiring on June 30
of the following year, except as expressly permitted otherwise in this chapter
for licensing by the day or week or for a new business.
   (B)   Any person holding himself or herself out by sign, advertisement or
other representation to be engaged in any business for which a license is
required hereunder shall be deemed actually engaged in that business and shall
be liable for the license fee therefor. Any local agent or local proprietor of
a nonresident owner of a business shall be liable for the license fee levied
upon the business as if he or she were the owner thereof.
(Ord. G-D, Series 1989, passed - -89; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-2006, passed
10-25-05)
§ 110.08 NEW BUSINESS.
   If a new business commences operation after July 1, but before June 30 of
the license year, the business shall pay the minimum annual tax or fee of $50
for the remainder of the tax year. By July 1 of its first year in business, the
new business shall make an annual report of its gross receipts for the part of
the preceding year in which it conducted business in the city. The new business
shall pay a license tax based on the amount which will be produced by
multiplying the average monthly gross receipts for the portion of a year by 12.
The business shall pay no less than the minimum license fee of $50.
(Ord. G-D, Series 1989, passed - -89; Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed 11-
15-22)
§ 110.09 TEMPORARY BUSINESS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any business
entity desiring to utilize any structure or property within the city to conduct
business for a period of 14 days or less shall apply for a temporary business
license at a cost of $100, except as specifically provided in division (C)
below.
   (B)   In addition to the fee set forth in division (A), the temporary
business licensee shall deposit a $100 refundable fee to insure cleanup of any
outside property. The deposit shall be refunded to the applicant if, pursuant
to inspection by the City Clerk, the site utilized to conduct the temporary
business has been cleared of trash and debris.
   (C)   Yard sales, garage sales, street sales and all other similar type of
sales shall not be required to purchase a license as required herein, unless
the sales are held by the same person or family or on the same premises more
than twice during the period between July 1 through June 30, or if the sale
exceeds three consecutive days. In the event that the sale exceeds three
consecutive days or takes place on more than two occasions during the license
period, a licensee will be required to obtain a license and pay a fee in the
amount of $25 per day.
(Ord. G-D, Series 1989, passed - -89)
§ 110.10 SEPARATE LICENSES.
   (A)   Payment of the license fee provided for herein shall be required of
each member of a firm or partnership in which two or more persons are engaged
in the practice of a profession. The license fee shall be required for each
separate location according to the type of business conducted therein. A
business entity which has a branch or branches, office or offices, store or
stores, warehouse or other place or places in which the entity’s business is
transacted, located in the city shall be considered to be conducting, operating
or carrying on a trade, business, profession, enterprise, undertaking or other
activity to the full extent of the sum total of all transactions originating or
consummated in, by or through the city branch, office, store, warehouse or
other place of business, including: billings made on the transactions; services
rendered; shipments made, goods, chattels, merchandise and the like sold; or
commissions, fees or other remuneration or payments earned.
   (B)   Where a part of a business is situated in one or more other locations
apart from the principal place of business, the licensee shall be required by
this chapter to file a single return provided the licensee files with the City
Clerk an affidavit setting out the facts sufficient to prove to the City Clerk
that the separate locations are, in fact, an integral part of the principal
place of business.
(Ord. G-D, Series 1989, passed - -89)
§ 110.11 REFUNDS.
   The City Clerk, with the approval of the City Council, is authorized to make
refunds of license taxes paid under this chapter if satisfactory evidence is
presented that an error was made in determining the amount of a license tax, or
that incorrect data was shown on a licensee’s return or that a
misinterpretation of the provisions of this chapter resulted in the payment of
a license tax in excess of the amount properly payable. Application for a
refund must be made by the licensee prior to the end of the license year for
which the license tax was paid. The City Clerk shall correct and receive the
license fees imposed by this chapter and the City Clerk shall keep records
showing the amount received from each license and the date of the receipt.
(Ord. G-D, Series 1989, passed - -89)
§ 110.12 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   Each person or corporation who engages in business (including persons
that offer for lease real property and improvement to real property), shall pay
an amount equal to 0.1% for the first $250,000 of gross receipts and 0.05% for
all gross receipts in excess of $250,000. ((0.001 X Gross Receipts up to
$250,000) + (0.0005 X Gross Receipts over $250,000) = Gross Receipts Business
Tax Due))
   (B)   A receipt shall be considered as received at the office or place of
business of the taxpayer where the services or the transactions giving rise to
the receipts are chiefly performed, negotiated or take place. If the receipts
result from orders received by telephone, electronic data or mail, the receipts
shall be allocated to the place of business where the ordered are processed.
The gross commission of a manufacturer’s agent or an insurance agent shall
constitute his of her gross receipts.
(Ord. G-D8, Series 2006-2007, passed 4-24-07; Am. Ord. G-D6, Series 2009-2010,
passed 5-25-10)
§ 110.13 (RESERVED)
§ 110.14 ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter shall be administered by the City Clerk under the direction of
the Mayor. The City Clerk with the approval of the Mayor, shall have the
authority to issue and promulgate regulations as he or she may consider
necessary for the administration and enforcement of this chapter, provided the
regulations are not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, provided
the regulations, when promulgated, are approved by the City Council. No license
shall be issued for any unlawful activity, or for any business that the City
Clerk, with the approval of the Mayor, shall consider to be detrimental to the
public welfare. Any decision to refuse to issue a license may be appealed to
the City Council. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to collect and receive
all license fees imposed by this chapter and to keep records showing the
amounts received by the City Clerk from each business. The extension shall be
upon the written request of the licensee. Any balance unpaid when payment is
due under this chapter shall bear interest at the maximum rate provided by law
per annum until paid.
(Ord. G-D, Series 1989, passed - -89)
§ 110.15 MAINTAINING RECORDS.
   (A)   Each person subject to the provisions of this chapter shall maintain a
record showing gross receipts as defined in this chapter, but a separate record
shall not be required if the licensee’s regular records contain the
information. Whenever the City Clerk considers it necessary for proper
administration of this chapter, a licensee shall permit an officer or employee
of the city of make an audit of the records and any other books, papers, files,
equipment, stock or inventory of the licensee, and to examine witnesses under
oath for the purpose of determining whether any provisions of this chapter are
being violated. If the City Clerk determines, on a basis of auditing returns of
a licensee, or on a basis of audits of a licensee’s records, books, papers,
files, equipment, stock or inventory, or on basis of examination of witnesses
under oath, that the amount of license tax has not been paid, a notice shall be
given to the licensee of the additional amount due, which shall be paid by the
licensee with 30 days with the penalty as provided. The notice of additional
tax or a notice that no tax has been paid may be served and the amount of
license tax may be collected by the City Clerk at any time within five years
after the license tax was payable under this chapter.
   (B)   The records are to be preserved to enable the City Clerk or any agent
or employer of the City Clerk to verify the correctness of the return filed.
(Ord. G-D, Series 1989, passed - -89)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, any person violating
any provision of this chapter shall be fined $100 for each offense. Each day
the person continues the violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided in division (A), the tax or fee
may be collected from the licensee from the date the same is due by civil
action in any court of competent jurisdiction in the state and recovery shall
not relieve the person from the payment of a fine for engaging in any business
herein mentioned without a license to do so.
(Ord. G-D, Series 1989, passed - -89; Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed 11-
15-22)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale or making sales or making deliveries;
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city; and
      (3)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in the activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the legislative body.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business; and
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or possesses any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in a way as
to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the
public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days after notice of
the decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative body shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to
the person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the
time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $1,000. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed 11-15-22)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by PAWNBROKERS to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   (A)   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the
business of a pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good
and sufficient surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of
$1,000.
   (B)   This bond shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the
provisions of this chapter and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not
inconsistent with this chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The register shall:
      (1)   Be reported to an online, Internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
      (2)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, and the names and:
         (a)   A driver’s license number;
         (b)   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
         (c)   If the identification specified in divisions (a) or (b) is not
available, a Social Security number may be accepted;
of all persons who have left any property that has been pawned or sold;
      (3)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law enforcement
officer of the state when in the discharge of his or her official duty; and
      (4)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
division, FULL DESCRIPTION includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Make;
         (b)   Model;
         (c)   Color;
         (d)   Size;
         (e)   Manufacturer;
         (f)   Vintage; and
         (g)   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
   (B)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the merchandise
shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
   (C)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (D)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports. (KRS 226.070)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03 (A) to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying the person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker, as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
112.03, and for other expenses, losses and incidental costs associated with
servicing the loans. Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for the payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the item was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $1,000, and his or her license may be forfeited to the city
(see KRS 226.990 (1)).
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03 (B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $500 (see KRS 226.990 (3)).
(Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed 11-15-22)
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Fees to be paid to General Revenue Fund
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.04   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.05   Due date; interest and refunds
   
113.06   Written breakdown of collections
   
113.07   Inspection of records and accounts
   
113.08   Liability of agents
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee (hereinafter
referred to as a local government premiums tax, or LGPT), for the privilege of
engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits of the city,
on a calendar-year basis, based upon the following:
   (A)   The term PREMIUMS is defined as premiums actually collected by an
insurance company within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of
policies and contracts of insurance on risks located within the city and
includes premiums on new policies and contracts of insurance and on renewal
business, as well as all other classes of premiums, less all premiums returned
to policyholders.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) below, the license fee
imposed upon each insurance company which issues any insurance policy or
contract of insurance shall be the following percentage of premiums on those
classes of insurance which such company is authorized to issue (the base fee):
 
             Fire and Casualty                                    All Other
            Allied   Liability Vehicle Inland Marine Health Life Risks Taxed
             Perils   Only
Initial Rate 8%       8%        8%      8%            0%     8%   8%
Note:
The base fee shall not apply to premiums exempted by state or federal law.
 
   (C)   In addition to the base fee, an additional license fee in the amount
of 7.5% is hereby imposed by the city upon each insurance company on the
premiums for each class of insurance listed in division (B) above, provided
that Louisville Metro has raised its LGPT rate from 5% to 12.5% effective July
1, 2019 for any of the classes of insurance listed in division (B) above. In
the event the Louisville Metro LGPT, effective July 1, 2019, is raised to an
amount different than 12.5%, but more than the city's base fee, the city hereby
imposes an additional license fee on each class of insurance listed in division
(B) above, equal to the city LGPT credit allowable under KRS 91A.080(12). In
the event the Louisville Metro LGPT, effective July 1, 2019, remains 5% for any
class of insurance listed in division (B) above, the city's base fee shall
apply.
(Ord. 19-04, Series 2019, passed 3-5-19; Am. Ord. 4, Series 2022, passed 3-15-
22)
§ 113.02 FEES TO BE PAID TO GENERAL REVENUE FUND.
   The license fee or tax established by this chapter is imposed and levied for
the purpose of general revenue funds and shall be paid into the General Fund of
the city.
(Ord. 19-04, Series 2019, passed 3-5-19)
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee or tax imposed by a city upon each insurance company with
respect to life insurance policies may be based upon the first year's premiums
and shall be applied to the amount of the premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter upon the lives of persons residing within the corporate
limits of the city.
(KRS 91A.080 (2)) (Ord. G-D4, Series 1990, passed 7-24-90; Am. Ord. 19-04,
Series 2019, passed 3-5-19)
§ 113.04 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance company with
respect to any policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be of the
premiums actually collected by the insurance company within each calendar
quarter on risks located within the corporate limits of the city on those
classes of business which the insurance company is authorized to transact, less
all premiums returned to policyholders.
   (B)   The license fee or tax shall also not apply to premiums:
      (1)   Received on policies of group health insurance provided for state
employees under KRS 18A.225;
      (2)   Received on policies insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees or the death of their employees caused
thereby, under the provisions of KRS Chapter 342;
      (3)   Received on health insurance policies issued to individuals;
      (4)   Received on policies issued through Kentucky Access created in
Subtitle 17B of KRS Chapter 304;
      (5)   Received on policies for high-deductible health plans as defined in
26 U.S.C. 223(c)(2);
      (6)   Received on multi-state surplus lines, defined as non-admitted
insurance as provided in Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act; or
      (7)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by non-profit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
cities, counties, charter county government, urban-county government,
consolidated local government, unified local government, school districts, or
any other political subdivisions of the Commonwealth.
   (C)   No license fee or tax imposed under this section shall apply to
premiums paid to insurers of municipal bonds, leases, or other debt instruments
issued by or on behalf of a city, county, charter county government, urban-
county government, consolidated local government, special district, non- profit
corporation, or other political subdivision of the Commonwealth. However, this
exemption shall not apply if the bonds, leases, or other debt instruments are
issued for profit or on behalf of for-profit or private organizations.
(KRS 91A.080 (3), (10)) (Ord. G-D4, Series 1990, passed 7-24-90; Am. Ord. 19-
04, Series 2019, passed 3-5-19)
§ 113.05 DUE DATE; INTEREST AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter;
   (B)   Any insurance company or agent that overpays any license fee or tax to
a city shall be refunded the amount overpaid. If it is determined that an
insurance company or agent paid a license fee or tax to a city based upon
premiums collected upon lives or risks which are discovered to be located
outside the legal corporate limits of the city which was paid the license fee
or tax, the insurance company or agent shall be refunded those license fees and
taxes within 90 days' notice to the city paid.
   (C)   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date shall bear
interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6) from the date
due until paid.
(KRS 91A.080 (8), (9)) (Ord. 19-04, Series 2019, passed 3-5-19)
§ 113.06 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(KRS 91A.080 (8)) (Ord. 19-04, Series 2019, passed 3-5-19)
§ 113.07 INSPECTION OF RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS.
   Every insurance company subject to license fees or tax shall maintain
records adequate to support the reports required to be filed under this
chapter. Authority is given to the city or a representative thereof to make
inspection of the books, accounts and records of the agent or insurance company
to verify the correctness of any report or breakdown of collections.
(Ord. 19-04, Series 2019, passed 3-5-19)
§ 113.08 LIABILITY OF AGENTS.
   This chapter applies to insurance agents and surplus lines brokers to the
extent they are responsible for collection, reporting, and payment of license
fees or taxes pursuant to KRS 91A.080.
(Ord. 19-04, Series 2019, passed 3-5-19)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Pursuant to KRS 91A.080, willful failure to properly collect and remit the
license fees or taxes imposed by this chapter may constitute grounds for the
revocation of the license issued to an insurance company or agent under the
provisions of KRS Chapter 304 or may result in other penalties being imposed by
the State Office of Insurance.
(Ord. 19-04, Series 2019, passed 3-5-19)
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
114.01   Adoption of state alcoholic beverage control law
   
114.02   Published notice of application
   
114.03   Delinquent taxes; license withheld
   
114.04   Forfeitures
   
114.05   Compliance with other ordinances and regulations
   
114.06   Conditions governing licenses
   
114.07   Issuance of license; receipt of fees
   
114.08   Revocation or suspension of license
   
114.09   Transfer of license or business
   
114.10   Liquor; hours of sale
   
114.11   Beer; hours of sale
   
114.12   Sunday; hours of sale
   
114.13   Minors; prohibitions governing
   
114.14   Display of printed warning
   
114.15   Treating prohibited
   
114.16   Premises; approval of by health department and fire prevention
   
114.17   Books and records
   
114.18   Spirits outside locked department; discovery of
   
114.19   Operation without a license
   
114.20   Licensee to notify employee that sales of alcohol to minors
prohibited; acknowledgment
   
114.21   Licensee to notify employee that proof of age required
   
114.22   Failure to pay fines
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 ADOPTION OF STATE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL LAW.
   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Laws and Administrative
Regulations of the Commonwealth of Kentucky (KRS Chapters 241,243, and 244),
and all amendments and supplements thereto, are adopted as far as applicable as
a portion of this chapter except as otherwise lawfully provided herein. The
City of Graymoor-Devondale Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) Administrator shall
administer all alcoholic beverage control ordinances and regulations of the
city and all statutes of the Commonwealth of Kentucky relating thereto and the
regulations of the Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10)
§ 114.02 PUBLISHED NOTICE OF APPLICATION.
   The City of Graymoor-Devondale ABC Administrator shall not approve any
application for an original license to sell alcoholic beverages until the
applicant has caused to be published a concise advertisement in accordance with
the provisions of KRS 243.360.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10)
§ 114.03 DELINQUENT TAXES; LICENSE WITHHELD.
   No license to sell alcoholic beverages shall be granted to any person who is
delinquent in the payment of any taxes due to the city at the time of issuing
the license. Nor shall any license be granted to sell on any premises or
property, owned and occupied by the licensee, on which there are any delinquent
taxes or liens due to the city government. Where the property or premises on
which a license to sell is sought, is rented or occupied by the applicant for a
license but is owned by another, no license shall be granted if the taxes or
liens of the city due on the property or premises have not been paid. In such
cases, the city’s ABC Administrator may, in his or her discretion, issue a
license to sell after receiving from the city a written statement to the effect
that the applicant for the license and the owner of the property or premises on
which the license is sought have made arrangements with the city, satisfactory
to it, for taking care of the indebtedness represented by the unpaid and
delinquent taxes or liens referred to above.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10)
§ 114.04 FORFEITURES.
   If any license issued under this chapter is revoked or cancelled for any
reason by the city’s ABC Administrator, the licensee shall forfeit any and all
claims, which the licensee might otherwise have had to any portion of the
license fee paid by the licensee on the issuing of the license.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10)
§ 114.05 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS.
   No license shall be issued or renewed to any person for selling at retail or
wholesale any alcoholic beverages at any premises or location where such
business or associated activities are prohibited under, or are in violation or
conflict with any regulation, including but not limited to signs, fire
prevention and/or the zoning code and regulations of the city and any ordinance
supplementary or amendatory to it, and any license issued in violation of this
section shall be void. However, any person who held, relative to zoning and
use, a Louisville Metro license for, and actually carried on thereunder, this
business during or within the last month of the preceding license period may be
granted a similar license by the city’s ABC Administrator, in the exercise of
his or her sound discretion, for the same business at the same premises or
location. Any zoning restrictions that may apply shall be noted on the license
at the time of issuance.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 CONDITIONS GOVERNING LICENSES.
   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be granted subject to the
following conditions, and all other conditions of other ordinances and
regulations of the city applicable thereto and all rules and regulations duly
adopted by the city’s ABC Administrator.
   (A)   Each licensed premises shall at all times be conducted in an orderly
manner and no disorderly, riotous, or indecent conduct shall be allowed at any
time on any licensed premises and no nuisance suffered, permitted or maintained
thereon.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this chapter to sell, keep
or permit to be sold, or kept on the licensed premises any controlled
substances as defined in KRS Chapter 218A. In addition to other penalties set
out in this chapter for the violation of this section the city’s ABC
Administrator shall also have the authority to revoke the license issued to the
premises.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or any employee of any
licensee, to permit or allow acts of prostitution, gambling or the possession
of any gambling device on the licensed premises.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or employee of any licensee, to
allow the premises to become overcrowded or violate any ordinance or regulation
of the Fire Prevention or Fire Marshall offices.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; RECEIPT OF FEES.
   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved and issued by the
City ABC Administrator and shall be those fees authorized under KRS 243.070,
set out below and as amended by Senate Bill 13. All license fees from licenses
issued under this chapter shall be collected by the City ABC Administrator.
Distiller’s license, per annum                                        $500
Rectifier’s license, per annum                                        $3,000
Wholesaler’s distilled spirit and wine license, per annum             $3,000
Quota retail package license, per annum                                 $1,200
Quota retail drink license, per annum                                   $1,600
Special temporary license                                               $200
   Temporary distilled spirits and wine auction                      $25
   Temporary beer license per event                                  $266.66
   Temporary liquor license per event                                $50
   Temporary wine license per event                                  $266.66
Nonquota type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine, $2,000
and malt beverages), per annum
Nonquota type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine, $1,800
and malt beverages), per annum
Nonquota type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine, $300
and malt beverages), per annum
Distilled spirits and wine temporary auction license, per event         $200
Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum                          $300
Extended hours supplemental license, per annum                          $2,000
Caterer’s license, per annum                                          $800
Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per annum             $1,000
Malt beverage licenses as follows:
   Brewer’s license, per annum                                     $500
   Microbrewery license, per annum                                   $500
   Malt beverage distributor’s license, per annum                  $400
   Nonquota retail malt beverage package license, per annum          $200
   Nonquota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license, per annum     $200
   Malt beverage brew-on-premises license, per annum                 $100
Limited restaurant license (includes distilled spirits, wine, and malt  $1,800
beverages), per annum
Limited golf course license (includes distilled spirits, wine, and malt $1,800
beverages) per annum
 
[text missing]
liquor, wine or malt beverages on Sundays between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and
2:00 a.m., and 2:00 a.m. to 4:00 a.m., as long as the licensee holds a current,
corresponding special hours license(s).
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this
section, all hotels, motels and restaurants, which are retail drink, wine or
malt beverage by the drink licensees and who receive at least 50% or more of
their gross annual income from dining facilities by the sale of food, may sell,
permit to be sold, or permit consumption of liquor, wine or malt beverages on
Sundays between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. on Monday, the following
day.
(Ord. 6, Series 2013, passed 9-24-13; Am. Ord. 3, Series 2016, passed 11-22-16;
Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed 11-15-22)
§ 114.08 REVOCATION OF SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or any amendment
thereof, by a duly authorized agent or employee of a licensee shall constitute
a violation by the licensee. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to
make a written report to the city’s ABC Administrator of any violation of this
chapter or any amendment thereof, or of any rules or regulations of the city’s
ABC Administrator, observed by any member of the police of the city. Whenever
any licensee shall violate any provision of this chapter or any ordinance
relating to the subject of alcoholic beverage control or any of the rules or
regulations of the city’s ABC Administrator, or any of the provisions of the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, or any
amendments or supplements thereto, or any of the rules and regulations adopted
by the Kentucky State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, or any acts of
Congress, or rule or regulation of any federal board, agency or commission
relative to the regulation and taxation of alcoholic beverages, proceedings for
the revocation of the license shall be instituted in the manner and under the
procedure established by the Kentucky State Alcoholic Beverage Control Law.
   (B)   For a violation of any section of this chapter or any amendment
thereof or of any rule or regulation of the city’s ABC Administrator, or of any
rule or regulation of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, or any acts
of Congress or rule or regulation of any federal board, agency or commission
relative to the regulation and taxation of alcoholic beverages, or on
conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction for any such violation, the
city’s ABC Administrator is authorized and empowered to order the revocation or
suspension of any license issued under this chapter.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09 TRANSFER OF LICENSE OR BUSINESS.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned by the
holder, except as provided in the Alcoholic Beverage Control Laws of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, KRS 243.630 and per approval of the city’s ABC
Administrator.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10)
§ 114.10 LIQUOR; HOURS OF SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this chapter, or any amendment
or supplement thereto:
   (A)   To sell, give away, or permit to be sold or given away any distilled
spirits or wine at retail between the hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight and 6:00
a.m. on any weekday and Saturday, or between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 1:00
p.m. Sunday, or the hours of 9:00 p.m. Sunday and 6:00 a.m. Monday; or
   (B)   To permit the consumption of any distilled spirits or wine on the
licensed premises between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any weekday
and Saturday or between the hours of 12:00 a.m. Sunday and 6:00 a.m. Monday.
   (C)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) of this section, any retail
drink or package licensee under this chapter may sell, permit to be sold, and
retail drink licensees may permit the consumption of, distilled spirits or wine
at any time between 12:00 a.m. on the first Saturday in May of each year
through 6:00 a.m. on the following Sunday.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this
section, any special hours retail package or drink licensee may sell or permit
to be sold and any special hours retail drink licensees may permit the
consumption of distilled spirits or wine at any time between the hours of 12:00
a.m. and 2:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. to 4:00 a.m. on each day of the week, as long
as the licensee holds a current, corresponding special hours license(s).
However, an extended (special) hours retail package license, as discussed
immediately above, specifically prohibits the sale of distilled spirits and
wine on Monday between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 4:00 a.m.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.11 BEER; HOURS OF SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this chapter, or any amendment
or supplement thereto:
   (A)   To sell, give away, or permit to be sold or given away any malt
beverage at retail between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day of
the week; or
   (B)   To permit the consumption of any malt beverage on the licensed
premises between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this
section, any malt beverage licensee may sell, permit to be sold, or permit the
consumption of malt beverages at any time between 12:00 a.m. on the first
Saturday in May of each year through 6:00 a.m. on the following Sunday.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this
section, any special hours malt beverage licensee may sell, permit to be sold
or permit the consumption of malt beverages between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and
2:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. to 4:00 a.m. on each day of the week, as long as the
licensee holds a current, corresponding special hours license(s).
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.12 SUNDAY; HOURS OF SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this chapter, or any amendment
or supplement thereto:
   (A)   To sell, give away, or permit to be sold or given away any malt
beverage at retail between the hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight Sunday and 1:00
p.m. Sunday; or
   (B)   To permit the consumption of any malt beverage on the licensed
premises between the hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight Sunday and 1:00 p.m. Sunday.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this
section, any malt beverage licensee under this chapter may sell, permit to be
sold, or permit the consumption of malt beverages at any time between 12:00
a.m. on the Sunday following the first Saturday in May of each year and 6:00
a.m. on the Sunday following the first Saturday in May of each year, and also
at any time between 12:00 p.m. on the Sunday following the first Saturday in
May of each year and 12:00 p.m. on Monday, the following day.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A), (B), (C), and (E) of
this section, any special hours retail drink, special hours package, or special
hours malt beverage licensee may sell, permit to be sold, or permit consumption
of liquor, wine or malt beverages on Sundays between the hours of 12:00 a.m.
and 2:00 a.m., and 2:00 a.m. to 4:00 a.m., as long as the licensee holds a
current, corresponding special hours license(s).
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this
section, all hotels, motels and restaurants, which are retail drink and wine by
the drink licensees and who have dining facilities with a minimum seating
capacity of 100 people at tables and who receive at least 50% or more of their
gross annual income from dining facilities by the sale of food, may sell,
permit to be sold, or permit consumption of liquor or wine on Sunday’s between
the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m. on Monday, the following day.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.13 MINORS; PROHIBITIONS GOVERNING.
   The provisions of KRS Chapter 244 and KAR Chapter 804 involving prohibitions
governing minors shall apply to licensees and licensed premises within the
jurisdiction of the City of Graymoor-Devondale.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10)
§ 114.14 DISPLAY OF PRINTED WARNING.
   The provisions of KRS 244.083 requiring the display of printed warnings
shall apply to licensees and licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the
City of Graymoor-Devondale.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10)
§ 114.15 TREATING PROHIBITED.
   The provisions of KRS 244.050 prohibiting treating shall apply to licensees
and licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the City of Graymoor-
Devondale.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10)
§ 114.16 PREMISES; APPROVAL OF BY HEALTH DEPARTMENT AND FIRE PREVENTION.
   Upon the initial application for an alcoholic beverage license, the city’s
ABC Administrator shall not grant the license under this chapter to any
applicant until the applicant and the applicant’s place of business have been
approved by the Board of Health and the Fire Prevention Bureau. Upon renewal of
an alcoholic beverage license, the requirement of approval by the Board of
Health and Fire Prevention Bureau before issuance will be waived if the
applicant’s business has been approved by the Board of Health and Fire
Prevention Bureau during the licensing period. Premises being licensed for the
retail sales of package distilled spirits and wine may be exempted from the
Board of Health approval unless otherwise required by the Board of Health.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10)
§ 114.17 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   The provisions of KRS 244.150 and 804 KAR 4:100 requiring the retention of
books and records shall apply to licensees and licensed premises within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10)
§ 114.18 SPIRITS OUTSIDE LOCKED DEPARTMENT; DISCOVERY OF.
   The provisions of KRS Chapter 44 and KAR Chapter 7 pertaining to the
discovery of spirits outside a locked department shall apply to licensees and
licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10)
§ 114.19 OPERATION WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   The provisions of KRS 243.020 pertaining to licensing shall apply to
licensees and licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10)
§ 114.20 LICENSEE TO NOTIFY EMPLOYEE THAT SALES OF ALCOHOL TO MINORS
PROHIBITED; ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
   (A)   Every licensee selling alcoholic beverages by retail sales shall
notify each individual employed in retail sales that the sale of alcoholic
beverages to any person under the age of 21 years is prohibited.
   (B)   A notice to employees shall be provided before the employee commences
work as a retail sales clerk. The employee shall signify receipt of the notice
required by this section by signing a form that states as follows: I understand
that under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky it is illegal to sell
alcoholic beverages to persons under the age of 21 years.
   (C)   The licensee shall maintain the signed acknowledgment required in
division (B) of this section in a place and manner so as to be easily
accessible to any Police Officer of the city or the city’s ABC Administrator or
his or her employees conducting an inspection of the retail outlet for purposes
of monitoring compliance in limiting the sale or distribution of alcoholic
beverages to persons under the age of 21 years.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10)
§ 114.21 LICENSEE TO NOTIFY EMPLOYEE THAT PROOF OF AGE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every licensee selling alcoholic beverages by retail sales shall
notify each employee employed in retail sales that proof of ages is required
from a prospective buyer if it is reasonable to believe that the prospective
buyer is under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   The following unaltered written instruments are the only acceptable
types of identification:
      (1)   An unexpired driver’s license issued by any state, provided such
license contains a picture of the person;
      (2)   An official identification card issued by any state, provided such
identification includes a picture of the person;
      (3)   A United States Armed Forces identification card, provided such
identification includes a picture of the person;
      (4)   An unexpired passport issued by a government and which contains a
picture of the person and date of birth.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10)
§ 114.22 FAILURE TO PAY FINES.
   The failure of any person or entity to pay any fine imposed upon such person
or entity by the city’s ABC Administrator or hearing officer for violations of
sections 113.54 through 113.82 within 30 days of its imposition shall be
grounds for the issuance of an order by the city’s ABC Administrator revoking
the eligibility for employment of that person by licensees, or revoking the
license issued by the city’s ABC Administrator.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of § 113.42 shall be fined not
less than $500 nor more than $1,000, imprisoned not more than 50 days, or both.
   (D)   The fines imposed under divisions (A) through (C) of this section
shall be in addition to and independent of any action which may be taken by the
city’s Alcoholic Beverage Administrator, in accordance with the provisions of
the State of Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control laws and Administrative Rules
and Regulations.
   (E)   In addition to any criminal penalties that may be prescribed, any
person or entity that violates the provisions of sections 113.54 through 113.82
shall appear before the city’s ABC Administrator or the city’s Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board hearing officer for a civil hearing, and is subject to a
civil penalty of not less than $500 and not more than $1,000 for each violation
if convicted. This section shall not apply to obligations imposed upon the
city’s ABC Administrator or his or her employees under those sections.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 2009-2010, passed 6-22-10; Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023,
passed 11-15-22)
CHAPTER 115: RENTAL PROPERTIES
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Registration of rental dwellings
   
115.03   Condition of rental property
   
115.04   Issuance of permit
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOCAL AGENT. An individual, fiduciary, partnership, association, corporation
or other entity, who represents the owner of a rental dwelling for purposes of
this chapter.
   OWNER. An individual, fiduciary, partnership, association, corporation or
other entity holding legal or equitable title in a rental dwelling.
   RENTAL DWELLING or RENTAL PROPERTY. Any residential dwelling, which is in
whole or in part occupied by one or more person(s) pursuant to an oral or
written agreement for monetary or any other consideration, but which person(s)
is not acquiring an ownership interest in the dwelling. It does not include
dwellings that are occupied only by members of the owner’s immediate family,
who do not pay rent.
   TENANT. Any person, other than an owner, occupying all or part of a rental
dwelling.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2012-2013, passed 3-6-13)
§ 115.02 REGISTRATION OF RENTAL DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Annual registration required. All owners of rental dwellings shall
annually register the rental property with the city on an application in a form
provided by the city. At the time an application is filed, an annual
registration fee of $150 shall be paid in full.
   (B)   Annual registration. The annual registration date shall be July 1st of
each year.
   (C)   Registration of new rental dwellings. The owner of a new rental
dwelling or of any dwelling newly converted to a rental dwelling shall register
the rental dwelling prior to allowing occupancy.
   (D)   Change in registration information. If there is any change in the
owner information supplied in a rental application, the owner must re-register
within 60 days after any change occurs in information, but does not have to pay
another registration fee.
   (E)   Registration of rental dwellings. Application for registration or re-
registration shall include:
      (1)   The address of the rental dwelling;
      (2)   The number of rental dwelling units;
      (3)   The name, residence address, business address, business phone
number and personal phone number of the owner and/or the local agent, if
applicable;
      (4)   The address where the owner and/or the local agent, if applicable,
will accept notices or orders from the city; and
      (5)   Verification that all state and city taxes levied and assessed
against the rental dwelling that are due and payable at the time of the filing
of the application have been paid. Delinquencies on such taxes may result in
the denial of an application for registration or re-registration under this
section.
   (F)   Inaccurate or incomplete registration information. It shall be a
violation of this chapter for an owner to provide inaccurate information for
the registration or re-registration of rental dwellings or to fail to provide
information required by the application.
   (G)   Designation of local agent. If the owner of a rental dwelling, or a
responsible member or officer of the owner, does not reside within 60 miles of
the city, the owner shall designate a responsible local agent who shall be
legally responsible for operating such rental dwelling in compliance with this
article, this code of ordinances, and other applicable laws or regulations. All
official notices may be served on the responsible local agent, and any notice
so served shall be deemed to have been served upon the owner of record.
   (H)   More than one owner or ownership entity. Where more than one person
has an ownership interest, the required information shall be provided for each
owner. If those cases in which the owner is not a person, the information
required for registration shall be provided for the organization owning the
rental dwelling and for the president, general manager, director(s), partner
(s), executor, trustee(s), or other chief executive officer(s) of the
organization.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2012-2013, passed 3-6-13; Am. Ord. 4, Series 2013-2014,
passed 8-27-13; Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed 11-15-22) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 CONDITION OF RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   All rental property must be kept in compliance with the city’s Code of
Ordinances, as well as Metro Louisville ordinances, as a condition of operating
a rental property in the city.
   (B)   The registration application must be accurate and complete. If there
is any change in the application information, it must be updated within 60
days.
   (C)   Each rental dwelling shall provide measures acceptable to the city to
prevent any excessive noise at any property line.
   (D)   Each rental dwelling shall provide measures acceptable to the city to
prevent violations of the city’s parking ordinance by tenants of the rental
unit.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2012-2013, passed 3-6-13) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Within 30 days of receipt of an application for registration (or re-
registration), along with the registration fee, by the City of Graymoor-
Devondale, the city shall either issue the owner a permit to operate the rental
property, or, if the city decides not to issue the permit, the city shall
provide a written list of deficiencies or violations that must be corrected
before a permit may be issued.
   (B)   If the owner contests the permit denial, the owner many appeal the
denial to the full city council. The appeal must be filed within 20 days of the
receipt of the denial by owner. The appeal will be heard by the full Council at
its next regular City Council meeting, at which time the owner may present
evidence relevant to whether the property is in compliance with all City of
Graymoor-Devondale ordinances, as well as Metro Louisville ordinances.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2012-2013, passed 3-6-13)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this Ordinance shall
be guilty of a violation and fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, per
occurrence.
      (2)   Where Kentucky Revised Statutes mandates a fine higher than that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in Kentucky Revised Statutes shall apply.
      (3)   Any continuing violation of this chapter shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense for each day on which a violation occurs or
continues, and a separate fine may be imposed therefor.
   (B)   Civil.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall
subject the offender to a civil fine in an amount equal to two times the
minimum fine prescribed in this chapter, with a minimum civil fine of $100 for
each violation.
      (2)   The civil fine provided herein may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the fine
within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the ordinance violation.
As used herein “cited” shall mean notified of the violation and the fine in
writing by an elected or appointed official of the city or the official
attorney for the city. The civil fine may be used as an alternative to or in
conjunction with the criminal fine authorized herein.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2012-2013, passed 3-6-13; Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023,
passed 11-15-22)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Discharging projectiles; firearms
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks, see §§
93.01 through
93.06
   Littering, see
Chapter 94
§ 130.01 DISCHARGING PROJECTILES; FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a law enforcement officer,
to discharge any type of projectile from a firearm, BB gun, pellet gun or other
device within the city limits, unless the discharge is necessary to protect
life or property or to prevent the commission of a crime, as defined by state
statute.
(Ord. D10, Series 1983, passed 12-5-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SIGNS
      
152.   DEVELOPMENT CODE
      
153.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
154.   SCREENING, LANDSCAPING AND FENCES
      
155.   HOME BUSINESS ACTIVITY
      
156.   SATELLITE DISHES
      
157.   SMALL CELLULAR TOWER SITES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Kentucky Building Code and Standards of Safety
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code and Standards of Safety;
enforcement agents
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Appeals
External Design and Location Requirements
   
150.20   New structures, fences, and the like
   
150.21   Zoning regulations continue in force
   
150.22   Required building materials
   
150.23   Garages, carports, driveways, and parking lots
   
150.24   Swimming pools
   
150.25   Sight triangles on corner lots
   
150.26   Enforcement
Nuisances
   
150.40   Property maintenance standards
   
150.41   Responsibility for property maintenance
   
150.42   Enforcement
   
150.43   Appeals
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks; Fire Prevention, see
Chapter 93
   Improvements, see §§
33.10 through
33.18
KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY;
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Chapter 7, Title 815
of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as
contained in Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations;
the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as contained in Chapter 10, Title 815 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations; together with any amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Copies of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall be
placed on file in the office of the City Clerk where they shall be available
for public inspection during normal business hours.
   (B)   The Mayor or his or her designee shall be designated as the local
enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code.
   (C)   The Mayor or his or her designee and all other designated officers,
agents and employees of the city are hereby charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of the Standards of Safety.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code shall be extended to all single-
family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
§ 150.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Mayor or his or her designee under this
chapter may be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction
unless and/or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS
Chapter 198B, is established to hear the appeals.
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
EXTERNAL DESIGN AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.20 NEW STRUCTURES, FENCES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No building or structure of any type, including fences, shall be
erected or placed on any lot within the city until building plans,
specifications, and plot plans showing location of such structure or building
have been approved in writing as to conformity and harmony of external design
with existing structures in the city and as to location of building with
respect to topography, finished ground elevation, and other provisions of this
subchapter by the Citation Officer and building permit applied for from the
city.
   (B)   When the detailed plans and specifications have been submitted to the
Citation Officer any shed larger than 120 square feet must meet the
requirements of garages herein of the city and have been approved, a building
permit or letter of compliance will be issued. Building permits for fences,
utility sheds, playhouses, and other auxiliary structures will be issued by the
Code Enforcement Officer. Permits for houses, garages, and building additions
will be issued by the Jefferson County Code Enforcement Division upon
presentation of letter of compliance from the city. All applications must be
reviewed by the city for conformance with this code and other city ordinances.
Only then will a permit or letter of compliance be issued, and only then may
construction begin. The permit issued must be posted upon the premises in such
a manner to be visible from the street during the period of construction.
   (C)   Upon violation of this section, the Code Enforcement Officer may order
the excavation and construction to immediately cease until such a time as a
permit is properly granted.
   (D)   No structures other than those approved in accordance with this
section may be erected, altered, placed, or permitted to remain on any portion
of said lots.
   (E)   Plumbing, electrical, heating, and any other required permits must be
obtained from Jefferson County or the Commonwealth of Kentucky before
construction may be started.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 1997-1998, passed 8-26-97; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-2006,
passed 10-25-05) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 ZONING REGULATIONS CONTINUE IN FORCE.
   All lots shall be used in accordance with the zoning regulations enacted by
the Louisville and Jefferson County Planning Commission and city ordinances.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 1997-1998, passed 8-26-97; Am. Ord. G-D12, Series 1997-1998,
passed 6-23-98) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.22 REQUIRED BUILDING MATERIALS.
   (A)   The exterior building material of all residences or additions thereto
to be erected shall be brick, stone, or any combination thereof and can be in
combination with stucco, frame (wood), plastic, and/or metal. The use of stucco
(as long as it is a type of stucco approved for use by the City Engineer),
frame (wood), plastic, and/or metal shall used only upon plans approved by the
city, windows, and decorative effects only in the case of one-story houses;
one-and-one-half-, two-story, and multi-level dwellings may use stucco, frame
(wood), metal, plastic, and/or brick or stone for the exteriors of uppermost
levels. Prefabricated residences may not be erected within the city. Concrete
and cinder block may not be used for the exterior building material. The use of
wood for foundations is prohibited. Stucco may be used on the first floor of
any building.
   (B)   Wood and/or plastic may also be used for the exterior building
material for additions to the rear of a house and for enclosing side and rear
porches.
   (C)   The main structure of any residence erected within the city limits
exclusive of porches and breezeways shall have a ground floor area of not less
than 1,500 square feet for a one-story dwelling house and a ground floor area
of not less than 900 square feet for a two-story dwelling house with a two- car
attached garage. A one-and-one-half-story house shall have a ground floor area
of not less than 1,000 square feet if there is an attached garage connected
thereto, and if there is no garage attached then it shall have a ground floor
area of not less than 1,100 square feet. A multi-level house shall have a
second (upper) level floor area of not less than 1,100 square feet.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 1997-1998, passed 8-26-97; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-2006,
passed 10-25-05) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23 GARAGES, CARPORTS, DRIVEWAYS, AND PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   All garages shall be no larger than 28 feet wide and 26 feet deep.
Garages with a seven- or eight-foot door shall not exceed 12 feet in height at
the highest point. Garages with doors higher than eight feet shall not exceed a
height greater than four feet higher than the garage door at the garage’s
highest point. Garages can be either frame, brick or stone, aluminum, or a
combination of the same and may be attached or semi-attached (by roof
breezeway) to the residence. If detached from the house, the garage must be
erected no less than two feet from the side property line and no less than 15
feet from the main structure. The two feet shall be determined by measurement
from the furthest extended point of the garage (example: roof overhang). Unless
located behind rear line of residence, garages must be no nearer the side of a
lot than 10% of the average width of the lot by dividing the sum of the maximum
and minimum widths of the lot by two. This section applies to detached or semi-
detached garages only.
   (B)   Carports shall be of frame, brick, stone, ornamental metal, or a
combination of the same. A carport shall not exceed ten feet in width and may
be attached to a house or a garage. The side wall away from the house or garage
shall not exceed three feet in height. If there is an end wall, it shall not
exceed three feet in height.
   (C)   All driveways or parking lots shall be asphalt, concrete, or hard
durable surface approved by the city (no gravel) construction and shall be
completed at the time of building the first structure on the lot. Any additions
or enlargements to any driveway or parking area in the city shall require a
permit from the city. Anyone proposing to add or enlarge their driveway or
parking area must submit plans showing the location of the enlargement or
addition, which locates those new areas on the lot. In addition, the type of
construction, driveway material type, width and location (such as how close to
the property line the construction will be) must be part of the application for
a permit. The city will make its decision to either grant or deny the permit,
based on the following factors.
      (1)   The number of vehicular access points a property line has to the
nearest public way.
      (2)   Whether the addition or extension would be in the required front or
street side yard.
      (3)   Whether the addition or extension would be an excessive width (over
20 feet).
      (4)   How drainage is dealt with at the front of the driveway.
      (5)   Turn-arounds. pull-offs. or circular driveways in the required
front or street side yard are not allowed.
      (6)   How sidewalks are impacted by the addition or extension.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 1997-1998, passed 8-26-97; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-2006,
passed 10-25-05; Am. Ord. G-D3, Series 2011-2012, passed 8-23-11) Penalty, see
§
150.99
§ 150.24 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   A letter of compliance shall be required for the construction and
installation of any swimming pool of over 400 gallons of water capacity (53
cubic feet).
   (B)   (1)   All swimming pools shall, at the time of construction or
installation, be provided with a fence or other suitable enclosure or cover
capable of preventing stray animals or children from entering the water when
the pool is not under the owner’s supervision.
      (2)   This enclosure may be of solid construction on three sides. The
side facing the rear of the dwelling shall be of open construction to afford an
unrestricted view of the complete pool area.
   (C)   Swimming pools must drain into the sanitary sewer system. Pool permits
will be issued by the Jefferson County Code Enforcement only after presentation
of approved letter of compliance from the city. All permits and plans must also
be submitted to the Jefferson County Health Department, Division of
Environmental Health, for approval.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 1997-1998, passed 8-26-97) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.25 SIGHT TRIANGLES ON CORNER LOTS.
   (A)   The sight triangle on all corner lots shall be as follows:
      (1)   Plantings in the sight triangle shall be less than two feet high or
trees shall be clear of branches from two feet to six feet above the ground.
      (2)   The sides of the triangle shall extend 35 feet parallel to the curb
measured from the apex of the triangle.
      (3)   All interior corner lot sight triangles shall be measured along the
yard edge of the curb.
   (B)   Property owners have 30 days to correct sight triangle violations.
Property owners shall be notified by mail, and the 30 days shall commence on
the day of the mailing. After 30 days, the city shall notify the property owner
by certified mail with return receipt that the city will correct the violation
and the property owner shall be billed for the work.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 1997-1998, passed 8-26-97) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Duties of The Citation Officer. The Citation Officer, with the
assistance of the officials of other departments of the city and county having
jurisdiction, is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all the provisions
of this subchapter and to review plans and specifications, to conduct
inspections, and to perform such other services as may be necessary to execute
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Right of entry. Upon representation of his/her official credentials,
the Citation Officer or his/her deputies may enter during reasonable hours any
premises covered by this subchapter to perform the duties imposed upon the
Citation Officer by this subchapter.
   (C)   Stop orders. Upon notice from the Citation Officer that any use of
property is being maintained contrary to the provisions of this subchapter,
such use shall be stopped immediately. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property or the owner’s agent, or to the
person so using the property, and shall state specifically the regulation being
violated. The notice may be given by registered mail to the person so using the
property after two reasonable efforts personally to serve the notice have
failed.
   (D)   Citations. Any person or entity who fails to stop use immediately as
required by division (C) of this section shall be issued a citation for such
violation pursuant to the provisions of KRS 100.991. Any person or entity who
violates the provisions of this subchapter shall be issued a citation for such
violation pursuant the provisions of KRS 100.991.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 1997-1998, passed 8-26-97; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2005-2006,
passed 10-25-05) Penalty, see §
150.99
NUISANCES
§ 150.40 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance for any owner or other person
in control of a property or premises to keep or maintain property, premises or
rights-of-way in such a manner that any of the following conditions are found
to exist.
   (A)   Incomplete projects. Any renovation or construction to structures or
grounds must be completed through consistent, sustained effort and no such
building or grounds under construction or renovation may be allowed to be
uncompleted for an unreasonable length of time, given due consideration to the
type of project. A period of 120 days without consistent, sustained effort to
complete the project shall be an unreasonable length of time, without
sufficient, specific, written explanation for the delay.
   (B)   Any premises which detrimentally impacts the surrounding neighborhood
because of dilapidation, deterioration or decay or is unsafe for the purpose
for which it is being used or is not secured or is improperly secured.
   (C)   Permits any structure/residence to become unfit and/or unsafe for
human habitation or occupancy, or to permit condition to exist in the structure
which is dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the occupants or the
structure, the occupants of neighboring structures, or other residences of the
city. All residences within the city shall have a safe and operable connection
to water, electric/gas, and sewer services. Residents who are in the process of
construction and are in compliance with division (A) of this section are exempt
from this section during the construction.
   (D)   Permits or causes the interface with any obstruction of a drainage
ditch, device or system as to inhibit, alter, or prevent proper drainage
patterns.
   (E)   Permits the accumulation of ashes, leaves, wood, lumber, limbs, twigs,
storm debris and/or any residue from the burning of any combustible material.
   (F)   Any tree, stack, or other object standing in such a condition that is
likely to, if the condition is allowed to continue, endanger life, limb or
property, or cause hurt, damage or injury to persons or property by falling
thereof or of parts thereof.
   (G)   Permits the dropping, deposit, or acquiesce in the dropping,
depositing, scattering of waste material in any manner, in or on any public or
private property any material of any kind, not including normal yard
maintenance material.
   (H)   Permits any condition to exist that is injurious to the public health.
Such as but not limited to:
      (1)   Unlawful storage of explosives;
      (2)   Having an uncovered or insecurely covered cellar, well, pit or any
excavation or situated upon any premises in any open lot or plane that any
reasonable or prudent man should realize should be injurious to human health;
      (3)   The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot or other enclosure
in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive odors;
      (4)   Permits the presence of polluted water, or the accumulation of any
substance that attracts vermin, rodents, insects, or animals or is otherwise
injurious to the public health;
      (5)   Permits the unlawful burning of any refuse, garbage, or waste or
material of any kind; and
      (6)   Play and/or recreational structures or equipment, including, but
not limited to, tents, swing sets, or other play or recreational structure or
equipment (except for basketball goals) may only be placed behind the front
wall of the primary residential structure on any lot.
   (I)   Permits any condition to exist that causes a building or grounds not
to be in good repair. Such as but not limited to:
      (1)   Every window; exterior door; basement; porch; roof; eaves;
foundation; exterior wall; exterior stairs; shall be reasonably watertight;
weathertight; bird, animal, and rodent proof; and shall be kept in sound
condition and good repair;
      (2)   All exterior wood surfaces, other than decay resistant woods, shall
be protected from the elements and decay by paint, which is not lead-based
paint, or by other protective covering or treatment. Any peeling paint is a
violation of this section; and
      (3)   All gutters, shutters, down spouts and any other parts of the
exterior of the home shall be maintained in their original condition and be fit
for their intended purpose.
(Ord. G-D9, Series 2011-2012, passed 6-26-12)
§ 150.41 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The owner or resident of any property within the city shall be
responsible for the maintenance of property and premises in a manner consistent
with the provisions of this subchapter and the Code of the City of Graymoor-
Devondale, Metro Louisville ordinances, Land Development Code, Kentucky Revised
Statutes and the Kentucky Building Code.
   (B)   Enforcement of this subchapter may be accomplished by the person or
employee as may be designated by the City Council to enforce city ordinances in
any manner authorized by this subchapter or by any other law, including but not
limited to issuance of criminal citations, civil actions and abatement.
   (C)   Abatement of public nuisances.
      (1)   Non-exclusive authority to abate. The city may choose to abate any
public nuisance or violation of the city code through any of the abatement
methods set forth in the city code or in other local, state or federal law, and
nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed as limiting,
prejudicing, or adversely affecting the city’s ability to concurrently or
consecutively use any of those proceedings as the city may deem are applicable.
Proceeding under this section will not preclude the city from proceeding under
other sections of this subchapter. Whenever the person or employee as may be
designated by the City Council to enforce city ordinances determines that any
condition exists in violation of the provisions of this subchapter, he/she may
take enforcement action pursuant to this section.
      (2)   Right of entry. The person or employee as may be designated by the
City Council to enforce city ordinances may enter any property or premises at
all times to perform any duty imposed upon him/her by this subchapter if he/she
has cause to believe a violation of provisions of this subchapter is occurring.
(Ord. G-D9, Series 2011-2012, passed 6-26-12)
§ 150.42 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Criminal or civil penalty. Pursuant to the city’s prosecutorial
discretion, the city may enforce violations of the provisions of this
subchapter as criminal, civil or abatement actions.
      (1)   Misdemeanor. Any person who is violating any of the provisions of
this subchapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and every day, during
which any such offence is committed, continued or allowed shall be a separate
offense.
      (2)   Each and every offense under this subchapter is punishable by:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding $100 for the first offense;
         (b)   A fine not exceeding $500 for the second offence of the same or
similar provision within one year period; or
         (c)   A fine no less than $1,000 for each additional offence, after
the second, of the same or similar provision of this subchapter within a one
year period of the first offense.
      (3)   Penalty for misdemeanor. Any person found guilty of a misdemeanor
under this subchapter shall be subject to imprisonment for a period of not
exceeding six months; or, by both fine and imprisonment.
      (4)   Civil penalties. Any person who intentionally, accidentally, or
negligently violates any provision of this subchapter may be civilly liable to
the city in the sum of not less than $100 but not to exceed $1,000 per day for
each day in which such offence occurs or continues. The city may petition the
Jefferson District Court to impose, assess and recover such sums.
   (B)   Enforcement procedures and notice.
      (1)   The city hereby establishes the standards and procedures for the
enforcement of this subchapter under KRS 65.8840 as follows.
         (a)   Whenever such a situation is discovered, the city person or
employee as may be designated by the City Council to enforce city ordinances
shall give five days written notice to any one or more or all: the owner,
operator, agent, occupant or person having control or management of the
property to remedy such situation.
         (b)   The notice shall be served upon the responsible person as stated
above, by mail, or by personal service. If by mail, it shall be addressed to
the last known address of the owner of the said property, as it appears on the
current tax assessment roll. The failure of any or all of the addresses to
receive the notice shall not invalidate any of the proceedings. Further, the
posting of notice of a hearing or order pursuant to this subchapter shall be
conclusively deemed to be adequate notice to any and all occupants, users or
possessors of the property or its contents, and the failure of any such
occupant, user or possessor to see, read, understand or otherwise receive the
notice shall not invalidate any of the proceedings. Upon the failure to the
owner of the property to comply, the city is authorized to send employees or
persons hired by the city upon said property to remedy the situation.
      (2)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the situation. The Affidavit of
the person or employee as may be designated by the City Council to enforce city
ordinances, shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and
the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to this subchapter and KRS 381.770,
and shall be recorded in the Office of the Jefferson County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all personas from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest thereafter until paid at the rate of 1.5% per month, compounded
monthly, and may be enforced by judicial proceedings.
      (3)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in the previous sections of
this section or any other remedy authorized by law, the owner of a property
upon which a lien has been attached pursuant to this section shall be
personally liable for the amount of the lien, including all interest, civil
penalties, and other charges and the city may bring a civil action against the
owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the recover of a debt
owed.
(Ord. G-D9, Series 2011-2012, passed 6-26-12)
§ 150.43 APPEALS.
   Any action taken by the person or employee as may be designated by the City
Council to enforce city ordinances may be appealed to the City Council by any
person cited hereunder. The appeal must be in writing, stating with specificity
the grounds of the appeal and it must be filed with the City Clerk within the
same time allowed for abatement (without extension). The grounds for the appeal
shall be stated in the appeal in detail. The appeal shall be heard by the City
Council within 60 days of it being filed with the City Clerk. While the appeal
is pending, the abatement notice shall be held in abeyance.
(Ord. G-D9, Series 2011-2012, passed 6-26-12)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Violators of the State Building Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $1,000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990 (1))
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $1,000, imprisonment
for not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 227.990 (1))
      (3)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $500, imprisonment for
not more than 90 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 318.990)
   (B)   Any person or entity who violates this ordinance or any order of the
Code Enforcement Officer or any condition imposed pursuant to §§
150.20 through
150.26 shall be fined not less than $50 but not more than $500 for each
violation. Penalties are payable to the city.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 1997-1998, passed 8-26-97; Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023,
passed 11-15-22)
CHAPTER 151: SIGNS
Section
General Use Provisions
   
151.01   Moving signs
   
151.02   Special event signs
   
151.03   Residential/office signs
   
151.04   Attached business signs
   
151.05   Freestanding business signs
   
151.06   Small/temporary signs
   
151.07   Outdoor advertising signs
   
151.08   Holiday decorations
   
151.09   Address numbers
   
151.10   Political signs
Licensing Requirements
   
151.25   Definitions
   
151.26   Sign permits; fees
   
151.27   Maintenance
   
151.28   Nonconforming signs
   
151.29   Council approval
   
151.30   Exemptions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL USE PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 MOVING SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs may not revolve, rotate, or move structurally in any manner.
   (B)   No changing image, video display, LED or changeable copy is allowed on
any signage except for display of:
      (1)   Time and temperature;
      (2)   Gasoline prices; or
      (3)   Non-commercial information relating to school or church functions.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2007-2008, passed 4-28-07) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 SPECIAL EVENT SIGNS.
   Special event signs for institutional/non-commercial purposes to advertise
public events is allowed only if such signage is no more than 32 total square
feet and that such signage is erected no sooner than 15 days prior to the event
and entirely removed no later than three days after the event.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2007-2008, passed 4-28-07)
§ 151.03 RESIDENTIAL/OFFICE SIGNS.
   Residential, office building identification and institutional signage is
governed by LDC 8.2.1. with no additional limitations specific to the city. A
city letter of compliance is required, prior to the issuance of any Metro sign
permit.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2007-2008, passed 4-28-07)
§ 151.04 ATTACHED BUSINESS SIGNS.
   Business signs that are attached to the building, awning, canopy, or marquee
signs are governed by LDC 8.3.2 with no additional limitations specific to the
city. A city letter of compliance is required prior to the issuance of any
Metro sign permit.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2007-2008, passed 4-28-07)
§ 151.05 FREESTANDING BUSINESS SIGNS.
   (A)   Freestanding business signs must follow LDC 8.3.3 and any subsequent
approved modification of LDC 8.3.3 with the following additional limitations
dealing with height and total size specified in division (B) of this section.
These guidelines are based on parkway limitations as defined in 8.6.3. A city
letter of compliance is required prior to the issuance of any Metro sign
permit.
   (B)   Height and size limitations.
 
Use and Road Frontage                          Height (feet) Area (square feet)
Less than 450 feet                             6             60
Greater than 450 feet                          9             72
Greater than 600 feet                          12            81
Office and institutional less than 600 feet    6             32
Office and institutional greater than 600 feet 6             60
Multi-family residential (e.g. apartments)     6             6
 
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2007-2008, passed 4-28-07)
§ 151.06 SMALL/TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   Small/temporary portable freestanding business signs are not permitted
anywhere in the city. Temporary banner signs shall meet requirements of LDC
8.5.4 and a city letter of compliance is required prior to the issuance of any
Metro sign permit.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2007-2008, passed 4-28-07)
§ 151.07 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   Outdoor advertising, off-premise and billboard signs as defined in LDC 8.4.1
are not allowed anywhere in the city.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2007-2008, passed 4-28-07)
Cross-reference:
   Institutional special event sign exception, see §
151.02
§ 151.08 HOLIDAY DECORATIONS.
   Holiday decorations may be erected or installed in any district for a period
not to exceed six weeks.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2007-2008, passed 4-28-07)
§ 151.09 ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   Address numbers displayed on and denoting the address of the building or
property which are not part of an otherwise existing attached or freestanding
sign shall not exceed six inches in height.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2007-2008, passed 4-28-07)
§ 151.10 POLITICAL SIGNS.
   Political signs shall be removed within seven days of any election to which
they pertain.
(Ord. G-D4, Series 2007-2008, passed 4-28-07)
LICENSING REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULLETIN BOARD. Any sign permanently erected by a charitable, educational or
religious institution or a public body, which is erected upon the same property
as the institution, for purposes of announcing events which are held on the
premises.
   DISPLAY SURFACE AREA. The gross geometric area enclosed by the display
surface of the sign including the outer extremities of all letters, characters
and delineations. DISPLAY SURFACE AREA shall not include structural supports
for free standing signs. Both faces of a double face sign shall be considered
in determining the DISPLAY SURFACE AREA. In no event shall the area computed
herein be less than areas as defined in city ordinance relating to sign size
and location.
   ERECT. To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend or affix, and to
paint a wall sign.
   FACE. A surface lying in a single plane.
   FREE STANDING SIGN. A sign which is attached to or a part of a completely
self-supporting structure. The supporting structure shall be firmly in or below
the ground surface and not attached to any building or any other structure
whether portable or stationary.
   IDENTIFICATION AND INFORMATION SIGNS. Signs of identification or information
bearing no advertising.
(Ord. G-D8, Series 1992, passed 10-27-92)
§ 151.26 SIGN PERMITS; FEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, repair, alter, relocate or
keep within the city any sign or other advertising structure as defined in this
subchapter without first obtaining a sign permit from the Code Enforcement
Officer or other duly authorized officer of the city and paying the fee
required by this section.
   (A)   Application for initial sign permit.
      (1)   Application for initial sign permits shall be made upon forms
provided by the Code Enforcement Officer or other duly authorized officer of
the city, and shall contain or have attached thereto the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant or owner;
         (b)   Location of building, structure or lot to which or upon which
the sign is to be attached or erected;
         (c)   Position of the sign in relation to nearby buildings or
structures;
         (d)   Two clean prints or ink drawings of plans, to true scale with
the scale noted;
         (e)   Name of person, firm, corporation or association erecting sign;
         (f)   Written consent of the owner of the building, structure or land
to which or on which the sign is to be erected; and
         (g)   Any other information required by the Code Enforcement Officer
in administering this subchapter.
      (2)   The city shall approve or deny the application within 30 days of
receipt of a properly completed application.
   (B)   Sign permit fees.
      (1)   Every applicant, before being granted a permit hereunder shall pay
to the city a permit fee in accordance with the schedule in division (2) below.
The sign permit shall expire on the last day of the calendar month, one year
from the date of issue.
      (2)   Schedule of fees.
 
Display Surface Area Permit Fee
Up to 16 sq. ft.     $50
17 to 50 sq. ft.     $75
51 to 100 sq. ft.    $100
101 to 300.sq. ft.   $150
301 to 672 sq. ft.   $300
Over 672 sq. ft.     $400
 
      (3)   Existing signs.
         (a)   All other applicants for a permit for an existing nonconforming
sign as hereinbefore defined shall file an application for a permit and pay the
fee therefor.
         (b)   No permit shall be issued for an existing sign unless:
            1.   The sign is permitted under the then current city zoning
regulations; or
            2.   The sign is a nonconforming sign as hereinabove defined.
      (4)   Changes in ownership or display material. A permit application and
fee shall be required for a sign where more than 50% of the display is altered
(other than repainting the original sign display) or where there is a change in
the ownership of the sign.
      (5)   Permit for a portable or temporary signs. No permit shall be issued
for a temporary or portable sign.
   (C)   Issuance of sign permits. It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement
Officer, upon the filing of an application for a sign permit to examine the
plans and specifications and other data and the premises upon which it is
proposed to erect the sign or other advertising structure. If it appears that
the proposed structure is in compliance with all the requirements of this
subchapter and all other ordinances of the city, he or she shall issue the sign
permit. Each sign shall require a separate permit valid only for the location
shown thereon. The Code Enforcement Officer shall not be authorized to issue an
initial sign permit for a billboard or advertising sign prohibited in the city
unless the applicant proves to the Code Enforcement Officer’s reasonable
satisfaction that the sign qualifies as a legal nonconforming sign.
(Ord. G-D8, Series 1992, passed 10-27-92; Am. Ord. G-D6, Series 2001-2002,
passed 5-28-02; Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed 11-15-22) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.27 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Sign identification. Every sign hereafter registered shall show in a
conspicuous place thereon, which is visible to the Code Enforcement Officer and
is readable by the officer from the ground, the permit number, or a copy of the
permit shall be maintained at the site of the sign and displayed to the Code
Enforcement Officer or his or her designee upon demand.
   (B)   Premises maintenance. All freestanding signs and the premises
surrounding same shall be maintained by the owner thereof in a clean, sanitary
and inoffensive condition and free and clear of all obnoxious substances,
rubbish and weeds.
   (C)   Unsafe and unlawful signs. If the Code Enforcement Officer shall find
that any sign or other advertising structure regulated herein is unsafe or
insecure, or is a menace to the public, or is abandoned or is maintained in a
dilapidated condition, or has been constructed or erected or is being
maintained in violation of the provisions of this subchapter, he or she shall
give written notice to the permittee or property owner thereof, at the address
shown on the sign permit, if any. If the permittee or property owner thereof
fails to remove or alter the structure so as to comply with the standards
herein set forth within ten days after the notice, the sign or other
advertising structure may be removed or altered by the Code Enforcement officer
to comply at the expense of the permittee or owner of the property upon which
it is located. The Code Enforcement Officer shall refuse to issue a permit to
any permittee or owner who refuses to pay costs so assessed. The Code
Enforcement Officer may cause any sign or other advertising structure which is
an immediate peril to persons or property to be removed summarily and without
notice. The permittee or owner shall also be liable for the penalties
hereinafter prescribed.
(Ord. G-D8, Series 1992, passed 10-27-92) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.28 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, a nonconforming sign shall be defined
as a sign which does not conform to the provisions of this subchapter or which
does not conform to the city zoning ordinances in effect at the time of the
adoption of this subchapter or the city zoning ordinance currently in effect.
   (B)   Nonconforming signs, other than temporary or portable signs, lawfully
in existence at the time of adoption of this subchapter may be continued.
   (C)   No nonconforming sign may be enlarged or altered in any way which
would increase its nonconformity.
   (D)   Should any nonconforming sign be damaged by any means to an extent of
more than 50% of its replacement cost at the time of damage, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. G-D8, Series 1992, passed 10-27-92) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.29 COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   Wherever authorization or approval of the City Council shall be required,
the City Council shall have discretion as to whether or not to issue a permit.
In such a case, no permit shall be issued unless the City Council shall find
that denial of the permit would deprive the applicant of reasonable use of the
land, the sign will preserve and not harm the public safety and welfare and
will not alter the essential character of the neighborhood. Any person affected
by the denial or order of the Code of Enforcement Officer may appeal the
decision to City Council. The appeal must be submitted, to the Council, in
writing, within 60 days of the Code Enforcement Officer’s denial or order of a
sign permit.
(Ord. G-D8, Series 1992, passed 10-27-92; Am. Ord. G-D6, Series 2001-2002,
passed 5-28-02)
§ 151.30 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemption shall not be construed as relieving the owner of the signs
from the responsibility of complying with applicable provisions of this
subchapter or the zoning regulations of the city.
   (B)   The exemptions shall apply only to the requirement for a sign permit
and no permit shall be required for the erection of the following signs:
      (1)   Professional name plates erected flat on walls of buildings and not
exceeding four square feet of display surface area;
      (2)   One on-site building construction sign on each construction site in
any zoning district provided the maximum display surface area shall not exceed
32 square feet;
      (3)   Real estate signs pertaining to the lease or sale of a building or
property, provided the sign does not exceed 12 square feet in area;
      (4)   Home occupation signs otherwise lawful and erected flat against the
wall of a building and not exceeding four square feet in area;
      (5)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection
where cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other non
combustible materials;
      (6)   Traffic or other municipal signs, legal notices, railroad crossing
signs, danger and temporary and emergency or nonadvertising signs;
      (7)   Posting of bills on signs, repainting of signs or the changing of
letters or numbers on signs designed for changeable lettering or numbering
which are legally erected and maintained for the purposes, where the original
sign has a valid permit, and the original permit is renewed as herein provided;
      (8)   Election campaign signs;
      (9)   All signs located within a building that are not visible to the
public outside the building;
      (10)   Signs painted on, or affixed to, glass surfaces of windows or
doors and pertaining to the lawful business conducted therein, provided the
sign occupies no more than one-fourth of the total square footage of the window
or door;
      (11)   Directional, identification and informational signs, provided that
the signs are limited to wall and free standing signs with a maximum of four
square feet of display surface and contain no advertising material;
      (12)   Religious, charitable or non-profit organization signs containing
no commercial advertising and located on the private property of the
organization;
      (13)   Subdivision signs lawfully existing and identifying a subdivision;
      (14)   Bulletin boards six feet or less in height with display area up to
16 square feet; and
      (15)   Any display not constituting any “sign” under city zoning district
regulations, except bus stop shelter signs.
(Ord. G-D8, Series 1992, passed 10-27-92)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of the provisions of §§
151.25 through
151.30 or failure to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates these sections or fails to comply with any
of the requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $50,
nor more than $150. Each day during which the violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense for which a separate fine may be imposed.
      (2)   The owner or tenant of any building or structure, premises or part
thereof, any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who commits,
participates in or maintains the violation may be found guilty of a separate
offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
(Ord. G-D8, Series 1992, passed 10-27-92; Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023, passed
11-15-22)
CHAPTER 152: DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
   
152.01   Adoption of county provisions
§ 152.01 ADOPTION OF COUNTY PROVISIONS.
   The city hereby adopts the Jefferson County Development Code, and any and
all amendments thereto, including the zoning district and subdivision
regulations adopted by the Jefferson Fiscal Court on March 10, 1992, a copy of
which shall be made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(Ord. G-D11, Series 1992, passed 11-24-92; Am. Ord. G-D12, Series 1994, passed
11-22-94; Am. Ord. G-D7, Series 1997-98, passed 12-23-97; Am. Ord. G-D10,
Series 1997-98, passed 12-23-97; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2000-01, passed 7-25-
2000; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2001-2002, passed 9-23-01; Am. Ord. G-D3, Series
2002-2003, passed 4-22-03; Am. Ord. G-D10, Series 2004-2005, passed 9-28-04;
Am. Ord. G-D7, Series 2005-2006, passed 4-25-06; Am. Ord. G-D7, Series 2006-
2007, passed 3-27- 07; Am. Ord. G-D8, Series 2007-2008, passed 3-25-08; Am.
Ord. G-D9, Series 2007-2008, passed 6- 24-08; Am. Ord. 4, Series 2022-2023,
passed 11-18-22)
CHAPTER 153: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Adoption of Comprehensive Plan
§ 153.01 ADOPTION OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   There is hereby adopted the Plan 2040 Comprehensive Plan, which is
incorporated into this section as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. G-D5, Series 1999-2000, passed 2-22-00; Am. Ord. 7, Series 2018, passed
6-19-18)
CHAPTER 154: SCREENING, LANDSCAPING AND FENCES
Section
   
154.01   Screening parking areas
   
154.02   Letters of compliance
   
154.03   Fencing requirements
   
154.04   Enforcement
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 SCREENING PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Any construction, zoning change or conditional use permit occurring
after the effective date of this chapter in any non-single family residential
zone in the city shall screen parking areas according to the following
requirements.
      (1)   On any area adjacent to any residential zone, any parking area
shall be screened using a seven-foot wooden privacy fence with the finished
side facing the residential zones, or be screened by a double faced type of
wooden privacy fence.
      (2)   Landscape berms and vegetative screening approved by the city shall
be provided on any area adjacent to any residential zone.
      (3)   There shall be no lighting in any parking area adjacent to any
residential zone on poles higher than seven feet. All lighting shall be pointed
down and away from any residential zone.
   (B)   There shall be no parking in any required front or side yards of any
development after the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. G-D3, Series 1999-2000, passed 8-24-99) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.02 LETTERS OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The owner or developer of any property with proposed parking shall
apply to the city for a letter of compliance with this section prior to the
construction or use of any parking area.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied with a detailed plan showing the
proposed parking area, screening, berming, landscaping and lighting.
(Ord. G-D3, Series 1999-2000, passed 8-24-99)
§ 154.03 FENCING REQUIREMENTS.
   No fence or structure of any nature, other than railings, porches, patios or
handicapped ramps, may be extended toward the front property line beyond the
front wall of the residence, except for fences on lots greater than five acres,
as long as such fence otherwise conforms to the Land Development Code.
(Ord. G-D3, Series 1997-98, passed 6-24-97; Am. Ord. G-D4, Series 2008-2009,
passed 4-28-09) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to fines,
penalties and forfeitures that may be imposed by law, and the city may secure
injunctions and abatement orders, when appropriate, to insure compliance with
its ordinances as authorized by KRS 83A.065.
   (B)   This chapter may be enforced by any one or in combination of the
remedies authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. G-D3, Series 1999-2000, passed 8-24-99)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Criminal.
         (a)   Any person who shall violate §§
154.01 or
154.02 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $250.
         (b)   Where Kentucky Revised Statutes mandates a fine higher than that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in Kentucky Revised Statutes shall apply.
         (c)   Any continuing violation of §§
154.01 and
154.02 shall be considered a separate and distinct offense for each day on
which a violation occurs or continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed
therefor.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person who shall violate §§
154.01 or
154.02 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to two
times the minimum fine prescribed in this chapter, with a minimum civil penalty
of $50 for each violation.
         (b)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the
penalty within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the chapter
violation. As used herein, “cited” shall mean notified of the violation and the
penalty in writing by an elected or appointed official of the city or the
official attorney for the city. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative
to or in conjunction with the criminal penalties authorized herein.
(Ord. G-D3, Series 1999-2000, passed 8-24-99)
   (B)   Any person or entity who violates §
154.03 shall be fine not less than $25, but not more than $250 for each
violation. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. G-D3, Series 1997-98, passed 6-24-97; Am. Ord. 3, Series 2022-2023,
passed 11-15-22)
CHAPTER 155: HOME BUSINESS ACTIVITY
Section
   
155.01   Limitations
   
155.02   Registration required
§ 155.01 LIMITATIONS.
   From and after the adoption and publication of this chapter, home businesses
operating within the city are now subject to the following limitations:
   (A)   Home businesses may not employ any person who does not live in the
home.
   (B)   Home businesses may not offer any merchandise for retail sale.
   (C)   No more than 10% of the living space within the residence may be
utilized by the home business.
   (D)   Home businesses may not use outside advertising visible on or through
the exterior of the home/property to the extent that signage would be
incompatible with existing restrictions of record in city ordinance.
   (E)   No mechanical equipment besides that which is normally used at a
residence may be utilized by the home businesses.
   (F)   No parking space other than the driveway of the home may be used by
customers of home businesses.
   (G)   Hours of operation, where customers require ingress and egress, are
limited from 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
   (H)   No business may create any hazardous traffic condition.
   (I)   No sales or services may be performed on the outside of the residence.
(Ord. G-D10, Series 1994, passed 10-25-94; Am. Ord. G-D3, Series 1998-99,
passed 9-22-98) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.02 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   All home business must register as such by submitting a statement describing
the type of business to be operated, location and name of proprietor of the
City Clerk.
(Ord. G-D10, Series 1994, passed 10-25-94; Am. Ord. G-D3, Series 1998-99,
passed 9-22-98)
CHAPTER 156: SATELLITE DISHES
Section
   
156.01   Location and placement
   
156.02   Violation; notice
§ 156.01 LOCATION AND PLACEMENT.
   (A)   Small satellite dishes, 24 inches in diameter and smaller, are allowed
within the city, provided that they are placed in the back yard of residences
in a manner which minimizes their visibility. Back yard shall mean even with
the rear wall of the house. Small satellite dishes may be placed on the roof of
residences only if the placement is not visible from the street.
   (B)   If a resident can show that in order to receive its signal, the small
satellite dish must be placed in a location other than that allowed under
division (A) above, then the Code Enforcement Officer, in his or her
discretion, may grant the placement, provided the dish is adequately screened
from street view.
   (C)   Large satellite dishes, larger than 24 inches in diameter, cannot be
placed on any lot within the city limits.
(Ord. G-D9, Series 1997-98, passed 2-24-98) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.02 VIOLATION; NOTICE.
   Any person or persons owning, maintaining or operating satellite dishes in
violation of this chapter within the city limits shall receive notice.
(Ord. G-D9, Series 1997-98, passed 2-24-98)
CHAPTER 157: SMALL CELLULAR TOWER SITES
Section
   
157.01   Purpose and objectives
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   Permit application submittal requirements
   
157.04   Permitted facilities and locations
   
157.05   Standard requirements
   
157.06   Permit review, renewal and revocation procedures
   
157.07   Cessation of operations
 
   
157.99   Penalty
§ 157.01 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish requirements and standards for
the development and siting of small cell wireless communications facilities and
ancillary support infrastructure on right-of- way owned by the city. These
regulations are intended to protect and promote public safety, community health
and welfare, and the aesthetic quality of the city while providing for well-
managed development of small cell wireless telecommunications in accordance
with state and federal law.
(Ord. 5, Series 2019-2020, passed 4-21-20)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANCILLARY EQUIPMENT. Any wires, cables, meter boxes, cable, conduit and
connectors, and any other equipment required to operate and support the
operation of small cell wireless facilities.
   APPLICANT. Service provider(s) of the small cell wireless facilities that
are proposed to be located within the city, or service provider(s)'s authorized
representative.
   CO-LOCATION or COLLOCATE. Mounting or installing an antenna on a preexisting
structure and/or modifying a structure for the purpose of mounting or
installing an antenna facility on that structure.
   DECORATIVE FACILITY. A structure that is specially designed and placed for
aesthetic purposes to reasonably match its surrounding environment and on which
no appurtenances or attachments, other than a small wireless facility,
lighting, specially designed informational or directional signage, or temporary
holiday or special event attachments, have been placed or are permitted to be
placed according to nondiscriminatory standards.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. All public streets and utility easements, now and hereafter
owned by the city.
   SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless telecommunications facility that
meets all the following conditions:
      (1)   The facilities (a) are mounted on a structure 50 feet or less in
height including the antennas, or (b) are mounted on a structure no more than
110% taller than other adjacent structures, or (c) do not extend existing
structures on which they are located to the height of more than 50 feet or by
more than 11%, whichever is greater; and
      (2)   The facility does not require antenna structure registration under
47 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter A, Part 17.
   TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE. By virtue of engineering or spectrum usage the
proposed placement for a small wireless facility, or its design, concealment
measures, or site location can be implemented without a reduction in the
functionality of the small wireless facility.
(Ord. 5, Series 2019-2020, passed 4-21-20)
§ 157.03 PERMIT APPLICATION SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance required. No applications for small cell wireless
facilities shall be deemed complete unless the applicant has submitted all
required application materials and applicable fees, as provided by this
section.
   (B)   Site plans and layouts. Applicants shall submit the following
information with the application electronically or by hardcopy. Hardcopy
submittals shall be provided in triplicate.
      (1)   Applicant's name, address, telephone number, and e-mail addresses;
      (2)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers and e-mail addresses of all
duly authorized representatives and consultants, if any, acting on behalf of
the applicant with respect to the filing of the application.
      (3)   Map and inventory of proposed sites. Applicant shall provide a map
of the proposed site(s) and photographs of the structure if the installation is
a proposed co-location. The applicant’s map shall show all land uses within 800
feet of the proposed small cell wireless facility sites(s), shown on the map.
      (4)   Photo simulations of small cell facility and ancillary equipment.
Applicant shall show the placement of the proposed small cell wireless
facility, including the placement of any ancillary equipment.
      (5)   Drawings and plans. Applicant shall furnish site plan, plans, and
elevations drawn to scale that identify the proposed small cell wireless
facility and ancillary equipment placement. Elevations shall include all
structures on which facilities are proposed to be located. All proposed
structures, including ancillary equipment, shall be drawn to scale on the
elevations. Site plans shall include depiction of signage required by this
chapter. In addition, site plans showing the existing condition of the
structure and surrounding area shall be prepared and submitted.
      (6)   Camouflage and/or matching methods. Applicant shall provide both a
description of methods proposed to make the installation and all ancillary
equipment a decorative facility and identify its colors and materials
specifications.
      (7)   Identify all ancillary equipment. Plans shall identify any and all
ancillary equipment required to support the small cell wireless facility.
      (8)   Unless the city waives the requirement in advance for good cause
shown, applicant shall provide notice to any property owner within 150 feet of
any installation of the application via first class mail and provide evidence
of that notice to the city with its application, along with any responses
received from that notice. The city will provide the applicant with any
responses or contacts the city receives in response to such notices.
   (C)   Fee requirements. An application for small cell wireless facilities
shall be accompanied by the following fee payments:
      (1)   Application fee. Application fee of $100 for each installation,
modification or replacement of a pole, or the collocation of an associated
small wireless facility, in the rights of way.
      (2)   Annual rate. An applicant authorized to place small wireless
facilities and any related poles in the right-of-way will pay to the city
compensation for use of the rights-of-way and collocation on city structures in
the rights-of-way an aggregate annual rate not to exceed $270 per small
wireless facility. This rate, together with the one-time application fee, shall
be the total compensation that the applicant is required to pay the city for
the deployment of each small wireless facility in the rights-of-way and any
associated pole.
      (3)   Bonding. Depending on the type, size and number of facilities, as
well as the financial viability of the applicant, the city may require a
reasonable and nondiscriminatory bond (or other good and sufficient security
from the applicant) with the application to ensure that the city right- of-way
is undamaged. Further, the city may require that a lesser bond (or other good
and sufficient security from the applicant) remains in place to ensure that the
facilities will be properly removed when no longer in use.
(Ord. 5, Series 2019-2020, passed 4-21-20)
§ 157.04 PERMITTED FACILITIES AND LOCATIONS.
   Subject to compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter, small
cell wireless facilities, pursuant to an approved permit issued by the city in
compliance with this chapter, shall be permitted on the right-of-way of the
city, upon the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   Public right-of-way. Small cell wireless facilities in the public
right-of-way in all zoning districts shall be in accordance with the following
preferences. The preferred approaches for design and siting of new small cell
wireless facilities in the public right-of-way are ranked as indicated in the
following lists. When a lower-ranked alternative is proposed, the applicant
must include technical information demonstrating that a higher-ranked option is
not feasible considering the provider's service objectives. Any claim of
infeasibility shall be supported by substantial evidence.
      (1)   Collocation on existing light poles;
      (2)   Collocation on any other existing utility poles;
      (3)   Collocation on any other existing pole, or an existing structure in
the public right-of-way;
      (4)   Location on a new pole of any kind.
   (B)   The city may propose an alternative location for proposed facilities
from the proposed location. The city shall provide the applicant a written
explanation of the reason the city believes the alternate location is
preferable. The applicant shall then, (a) accept the city's recommendation, (b)
identify another alternate location and provide a written explanation why that
alternate is preferable, or (c) provide written explanation why it continues to
believe the original location remains the best alternative. The facilities
operator shall utilize the alternate location unless the facilities operator
shows that the alternate location is not feasible. Negotiation must occur
within the timeframe set forth in division (E) to identify a mutually agreed
location.
   (C)   No more than one small cell installation for any provider shall be
permitted per each 1,000 feet along a city right-of-way; unless applicant
provides technical information demonstrating that application of this
limitation is not feasible considering the applicant's service objectives. Any
claim of infeasibility shall be supported by substantial evidence.
   (D)   Facilities shall not interfere with existing or planned street trees,
landscaping and irrigation.
   (E)   Encroachment permit. An applicant seeking to install, construct,
operate, or perform work related to small cell wireless facilities in the
public right-of-way shall also obtain a revocable encroachment permit from the
city prior to commencing work.
(Ord. 5, Series 2019-2020, passed 4-21-20)
§ 157.05 STANDARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   State or federal requirements. Small cell wireless facilities,
including ancillary equipment, must meet or exceed current standards and
regulations of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), all applicable
federal, state, and local health and safety regulations, including the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 12101 et seq.), and all
other agencies of the state or federal government with the regulatory authority
over small cell wireless facilities. Federal law prohibits the city from
denying a permit if doing so would prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting
the provision of personal wireless services. If, at any time, the state or
federal standards are modified, then the applicant shall bring any and all
permitted facilities into compliance with current standards and regulations
within three months of the effective date of such modified standards and
regulations, unless a different compliance schedule is mandated by the
controlling state or federal agency. Failure to bring permitted facilities into
compliance with such revised standards and regulations shall constitute grounds
for the revocation of city permit and require removal of the small cell
facility at the service provider's expense.
   (B)   Building codes and safety standards. The applicant shall ensure the
structural integrity of its small cell wireless facilities installed within the
city, and shall ensure that the facilities are maintained in compliance with
standards contained in applicable state or local building codes, Louisville
Metro Land Development Code and the applicable standards for small cell
wireless facilities that are published by the Electronic Industries
Association, as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the city
determines that a facility fails to comply with such codes and standards and
constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being provided to
the applicant of the facility, the applicant shall have 15 days to bring such
facility into compliance with such standards. Failure to bring such facility
into compliance within the required time shall constitute grounds for the
revocation of the city permit and removal of the small cell facility at the
owner's expense.
   (C)   Radio frequency emissions standards. Applicants shall confirm that the
projected radio frequency emissions from any and all permitted small cell
wireless facilities comply with applicable safety standards specified in 47
C.F.R. 1.1307(b). Such information shall be submitted with permit application
materials and annually thereafter if requested by the city.
   (D)   Operation and maintenance standards. All small cell wireless
facilities shall always comply with the following standards in addition to any
other conditions required by permits issued pursuant to this chapter.
      (1)   Except as provided in this chapter, an applicant shall not install
signs, display logos, or run advertisement on, alongside, or in connection with
a permitted facility.
      (2)   Every permitted facility shall contain signage listing the name and
contact information for an emergency contact individual or service. The signage
shall comply with design, material, color and location requirements as stated
in the applicable encroachment permit. Contact information listed on the sign
shall be kept current and promptly be provided to the city.
      (3)   Each permitted facility and any ancillary equipment shall be
maintained in good working condition and appearance, free from trash, debris,
litter and graffiti and other forms of vandalism. Any damage from any cause
shall be repaired as soon as reasonably possible to minimize occurrences of
dangerous conditions or visual blight. Graffiti shall be removed from any
facility or equipment as soon as practicable, and in no instance more than 48
hours from the time of receipt of city notice.
      (4)   Except for emergency repairs, testing and maintenance activities
shall only occur between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on Monday through
Friday, excluding holidays.
      (5)   Each facility shall install the following security measures:
         (a)   An on-site emergency "kill switch" to de-energize all radio
frequency circuits and components of each permitted facility in order to
protect emergency response personnel;
         (b)   Necessary safety measures to prevent unauthorized access,
vandalism, and other safety concerns. Installations must comply with the design
standards described herein and nuisance regulations, and must not interfere
with city emergency services or transmission.
      (6)   Except for public improvement projects undertaken primarily for
beautification, each facility shall be relocated at applicant's sole cost, upon
demand by city with reasonable notice, to allow for public improvement projects
which are necessary for the public's health and safety.
      (7)   The applicant shall, at its sole cost, be responsible for repairing
to city standard specifications or replacing in-kind any city facilities or
improvements disturbed or damaged during the installation, maintenance,
operation, repair or removal of applicant's small cell wireless facilities,
ancillary equipment, and any support infrastructure. City facilities or
improvements covered by this division includes, but are not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Curb, gutter, sidewalk, storm drains, and pavement;
         (b)   Landscaping; and
         (c)   Structures, buildings, light poles and fixtures.
   (E)   Electrical metering and structural standards. All small cell wireless
facilities shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   All electrical power required by small cell wireless facility
installations shall be metered independently from any anticipated or existing
city projects or facilities.
      (2)   All existing city-owned street light poles proposed for small cell
wireless facility installations shall be inspected prior to installation in
accordance with the most recent city structural standards for street light
poles, including but not limited to safety and load bearing capability for the
small cell wireless facility to be installed, as approved by the City Engineer.
         (a)   Applicants requesting to install a small cell wireless facility
on city-owned streetlight poles shall provide documentation demonstrating that
the pole proposed for installation meets or exceeds such city standards.
         (b)   If the city-owned streetlight pole proposed for a small cell
wireless facility installation does not meet or exceed structural standards, no
small cell wireless facility may be installed thereon. Alternatively, the
applicant may at its own cost replace the existing streetlight pole at the
proposed installation location with a pole that meets or exceeds the city's
structural standards including safety and load bearing capability or capacity
and complies with all other applicable legal requirements. Any existing
lighting fixture shall be reinstalled on the new pole at applicant's cost.
Applicant shall be responsible to coordinate electrification of the new
installation with the utility provider, including independent metering of
electrical power required for applicant's installations as provided herein.
Upon installation, the new pole shall become the property of the city.
   (F)   Small cell wireless facilities and any ancillary equipment shall be
located and designed to be a decorative facility and blend with the existing
natural or built surroundings, provided, however, the obligation to install
decorative facilities in the right-of-way shall be applied uniformly and
nondiscriminatorily and shall be no more burdensome than the requirements
applied to similar types of infrastructure deployments for other utility
installations which are similarly situated. Applicant cannot remove or damage
any city landscaping and may be required by the city to install buffering
landscaping.
   (G)   Ancillary equipment. Ancillary equipment and any support facilities
for small cell wireless facilities located in the public right-of-way shall be
installed in accordance with the following preferences, ordered from most
preferred to least preferred: (1) underground in any area in which the existing
utilities are primarily located underground; (2) on the pole or support
structure; or (3) integrated into the base of the pole or support structure.
Applications that involve less preferred installation locations may be approved
so long as the applicant demonstrates that the more preferred installation
location would be technically infeasible. Any claim of infeasibility shall be
supported by substantial evidence. If undergrounding of ancillary equipment is
not possible, all such equipment shall be located within a decorative facility,
and shall comply with all applicable laws, including but not limited to the
Americans Disabilities Act.
   (H)   Pole designs. Small cell wireless facility pole installations shall be
a decorative facility. Each installation shall be sufficiently designed and
engineered such that no additional supporting hardware is required beyond the
pole itself. A small cell wireless facility that is affixed to an existing
light pole shall be painted and/or textured to match that structure.
   (I)   Non-reflective materials. Small cell wireless facilities shall be
constructed out of non-reflective materials (visible exterior surfaces only),
or materials and colors consistent with surrounding backdrop. Anodized metal is
an acceptable treatment.
   (J)   Design preservation. Applicants are responsible for maintaining and
preserving design and aesthetic features for each facility, ancillary equipment
and any support infrastructure, including but not limited to color, tint,
shade, treatment, painting, surface treatment, replacement landscaping,
decorative facility design, and concealment.
   (K)   Security fencing. Under no circumstances shall security fencing be
permitted.
   (L)   Volume. Each individual antenna may not exceed three cubic feet in
volume, and all other equipment associated with a small wireless facility shall
be no more than 28 cubic feet in volume. The volume calculation shall include
any shroud, cabinet or other concealment device used in connection with the
non-antenna accessory equipment. The volume calculation shall not include any
equipment or other improvements placed underground.
(Ord. 5, Series 2019-2020, passed 4-21-20)
§ 157.06 PERMIT REVIEW, RENEWAL AND REVOCATION PROCEDURES.
   The city shall review an application subject to this chapter considering its
conformity with applicable provisions of this chapter, and shall issue a permit
on nondiscriminatory terms and conditions subject to the following
requirements:
   (A)   For an initial application, the city shall notify the applicant in
writing on or before the tenth day of submission if the application is
materially incomplete. In the written notice that the application is
incomplete, the city must clearly and specifically identify all the missing
documents or information and must specify the related code provision,
ordinance, application instruction or otherwise publicly stated procedures
related to missing information;
   (B)   If the city notifies the applicant in writing that the application is
incomplete in accordance with division (A), the processing deadline in division
(C) shall restart at zero on the date the applicant submits all the documents
and information identified by the Director to render the application complete;
   (C)   (1)   The city shall make its final decision to approve or deny a
complete application within:
         (a)   Sixty days of receiving an application for the collocation of a
small wireless facility using an existing structure; and
         (b)   Ninety days for an application to locate a small wireless
facility on a new structure.
      (2)   These timelines may be tolled only by mutual agreement between the
applicant and the city;
   (D)   The city must advise the applicant in writing of its final decision,
and if the final decision is to deny the application, the final decision
document shall state the basis for a denial, including specific code provisions
on which the denial was based, and send the decision document to the applicant
on or before the day the city denies the application.
   (E)   The city must process all applications on a nondiscriminatory basis
and may only deny an application subject to this chapter if the proposed small
wireless facility or new, modified, or replaced pole:
      (1)   Materially and demonstrably interferes with the safe operation of
traffic control equipment;
      (2)   Materially and demonstrably interferes with sight lines or clear
zones for transportation or pedestrians;
      (3)   Materially fails to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act
or similar federal or state standards regarding pedestrian access or movement;
      (4)   Applicant refuses to comply with the city's preferred locations in
§
154.04(A);
      (5)   Fails to comply with applicable codes; or
      (6)   Fails to comply with the provisions in this chapter.
(Ord. 5, Series 2019-2020, passed 4-21-20)
§ 157.07 CESSATION OF OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Voluntary cessation. Applicants intending to vacate a small cell
wireless facility site shall notify the city of this intent to vacate at least
30 days prior to the vacation.
   (B)   Abandonment.
      (1)   A permit for a small cell wireless facility that is not operated
for a continuous period of six months shall be deemed lapsed and the site will
be considered abandoned unless:
         (a)   The city has received notice from the same operator of intent to
resume operations within six months; or
         (b)   The city has received an application to transfer the permit to
another service provider.
      (3)   Removal of facilities and restoration of site. No later than 90
days from the date a small cell wireless facility has ceased operation, or from
the date of receipt of the applicant's notice of its intent to vacate the site,
the applicant or its authorized agent of the abandoned small cell wireless
facility shall remove all equipment and improvements associated with the use,
and shall restore the site to its original condition as shown on the plans
submitted with the original approved application. The owner or agent shall
provide written verification of the removal of the small cell wireless facility
within 30 days of the date the removal is completed.
   (C)   Failure to remove and restore.
      (1)   For a small cell wireless facility that is not removed and site
that has not been restored in accordance with the requirements stated above,
the site shall be deemed to be a nuisance pursuant to city ordinance. The city
may cause the facility to be removed at the owners' expense or by calling any
bond or other financial assurance to pay for removal.
      (2)   For a single structure occupied by two or more users, this division
(C) shall not apply while at least one user continues to actively use the
structure.
   (D)   Destruction of pole or city discontinuation of use. If a city-owned
structure upon which a small cell wireless facility is located is damaged,
destroyed, or demolished by acts beyond city's control, the right for such
small cell wireless facility to continue occupying the structure shall cease.
Applicant may opt to construct a pole or structure to replace the damaged,
destroyed or demolished city structure in compliance with the requirements of
this chapter, including structural inspection and separate metering
requirements.
(Ord. 5, Series 2019-2020, passed 4-21-20)
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Upon the failure of any entity to properly repair and restore any cut,
excavation, or alteration to the city right-of-way, or fail to maintain any
facility placed in the right-of-way, the city may authorize the repair or
restoration of the area in a proper manner and charge said cost to the entity
who violated this chapter (and/or the entity upon whose behalf the work was
done). In the event the city must make the repair or restoration, in addition
to its other remedies, the city shall have a lien under the authority of KRS
65.8840 for the abatement of nuisance conditions against any property of said
entities (if any) that the work directly benefits, or on whose behalf it was
undertaken. The lien shall be recorded in the Jefferson County Clerk's office
and shall bear interest at 12% per annum thereafter until paid.
   (B)   In addition to the remedies set out above, the city shall cite any
person, utility, company or entity for each violation of this chapter in an
amount not more than $500 per violation. Each day of violation shall be
considered a separate offense. Further, if deemed necessary by the city to
protect the public ways and public utilities of the city, any entity repeatedly
violating this chapter may be denied permission to make any future cuts or
excavations until it fully remedies past violations and pays any outstanding
fines.
(Ord. 5, Series 2019-2020, passed 4-21-20)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
      
II.   BONDS
      
III.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
V.   STREET CLOSINGS
      
VI.   STREET NAMES
      
VII.   ZONING CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
Ord. No. Series No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Series No. Date Passed Description
                                Detaching a tract of land described in Deed
G8       1960       - -60       Book 2050, page 255, Deed Book 2435, page 353,
                                and Deed Book 2858, page 262
G12      1960       - -60       Annexing a tract of land beginning at the south
                                boundary line of the city
                                Proposing to annex a tract of land lying
D4       1962       7-11-62     between the west line of Lyndon Lane and the
                                west line of Devondale Drive
                                Proposing to annex a tract of land lying
D5       1962       11-7-62     between the west line of Lyndon Lane and the
                                east line of Herr Lane
                                Proposing to annex a tract of land lying
D6       1962       12-12-62    between the east line of Ormsby Lane and a
                                point 916 feet east of the east line of Lyndon
                                Lane
                                Annexing a tract of land lying between the east
D8       1962       1-30-62     line of Ormsby Lane and a point 916 feet east
                                of the east line of Lyndon Lane
                                Annexing a tract of land lying between the west
D9       1962       1-30-62     line of Lyndon Lane and the east line of Herr
                                Lane
                                Annexing a tract of land lying between the west
D10      1963       6-12-63     line of Lyndon Lane and the west line of
                                Devondale Drive
                                Proposing to annex a tract of land consisting
D13      1963       8-14-63     of Herr Lane from Westport Road to and
                                including all of Glen Arbor Subdivision
                                Proposing to detach a portion of previously
D14      1963       9- -63      annexed land lying to the south of Westport
                                Road
                                Annexing a tract of land consisting of Westport
D15      1963       10-9-63     Road to and including the Glen Arbor
                                Subdivision
D16      1963       11-13-63    Detaching a portion of previously annexed land
                                lying to the south of Westport Road
                                Proposing to annex a tract of land lying
D2       1965       3-22-65     between the east line of Lyndon Lane and the
                                west line of Devondale Drive
                                Proposing to annex a tract of land consisting
                                of Herr Lane, from Glen Arbor Subdivision,
D16      1965       11-22-65    including all of Wilder Estates Subdivision,
                                Greenlawn Subdivision and the property north
                                thereof to Brownsboro Road
                                Proposing the annexation of a tract of land
                                lying to the west of Herr Lane between
G1       1978       12-19-78    Woodstock Subdivision, portions of the Kentucky
                                Artificial Breeding Association, Inc., and
                                Crossgate Section No. 5
                                Proposing to annex a tract of land beginning at
D3       1981       - -81       a point at the west corner Lot 1 of Brownsboro
                                Subdivision
                                Proposing to annex a tract of land beginning at
D4       1981       - -81       a point at the east right-of-way line of Lynn
                                Way and the west corner of Devondale
                                Subdivision
                                Proposing to annex a tract of land beginning at
D5       1981       - -81       a point at the west corner of Lot 1 of
                                Devondale Subdivision
                                Proposing to annex a tract of land beginning at
D6       1981       - -81       a point in the north corner of Lot 1 and the
                                southeast right-of-way of Westport Road
                                Proposing to annex a tract of land beginning at
D7       1981       - -81       a point in the western corner of Lot 13 of the
                                Fair Meadows Subdivision
                                Annexing a tract of land beginning at a point
D8       1981       11-23-81    at the east right-of-way line of Lynn Way and
                                the west corner of Devondale Subdivision
                                Annexing a tract of land beginning at a point
D9       1981       11-23-81    at the west corner of Lot 1 of Devondale
                                Subdivision
                                Annexing a tract of land beginning at a point
D10      1981       11-23-81    in the north corner of Lot 1 and the southeast
                                right-of-way of Westport Road
                                Annexing a tract of land beginning at a point
D11      1981       11-23-81    in the western corner of Lot 13 of the Fair
                                Meadows Subdivision
                                Annexing a tract of land beginning at the
G14      1983       12-20-83    intersection of the center line of Westport
                                Road with the west line of Herr Lane
                                Proposing to annex a tract of land beginning at
D1       1984       4-23-84     the southeasterly right-of-way of Brownsboro
                                Road at the northerly corner of the tract
                                conveyed to Six Fortunes Enterprises, Inc.
                                Annexing a tract of land beginning at the
D3       1984       1-12-85     southeasterly right-of-way of Brownsboro Road
                                at the northerly corner of the tract conveyed
                                to Six Fortunes Enterprises, Inc.
D3       1985       7-22-85     Annexing a tract of land
3        2023       9-19-23     Annexing a certain area known as Bull Run
                                Townhomes located at 1922 Herr Lane
                              
 
TABLE II: BONDS
 
Ord. Series Date   Description
No.  No.    Passed
G-D5 2000-  11-28- Authorizing issuance of bonds for educational development, St. Albert the
     01     00     Great Catholic Community Project
G-D3 2001-  9-25-  Authorizing issuance of bonds to finance new health care facilities, the
     02     01     Episcopal Church Home Project
Res.        3-24-  Amendment and supplementation of an indenture and loan agreement relating to
-           15     the city’s outstanding health care facilities revenue bonds, Series 2001
                   (the Episcopal Church Home Project)
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Series No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Series No. Date Passed Description
G3        1979       - -79       Granting a cable television franchise to
                                 Community Antenna Television System (CATV)
D3        1979       - -79       Granting a cable television franchise to
                                 Community Antenna Television System (CATV)
                                 Reviewing rates from the granting a cable
D12       1982       7-26-82     television franchise to Community Antenna
                                 Television System (CATV)
                                 Reviewing rates from the granting a cable
G2        1982       8-17-82     television franchise to Community Antenna
                                 Television System (CATV)
Res. G-D1 1988       6-27-88     Granting the transfer of a cable television
                                 franchise to Storer Communications, Inc.
                                 Approving the assignment of a cable television
Res. G-D2 1997-98    3-24-98     franchise from TCI TKR of Jefferson County,
                                 Inc., to Intermedia Partners of Kentucky, L.P.
                                 Approving the extension of the franchise
G-D6      2011-2012  11-22-11    agreement for community antenna television
                                 services of Insight Kentucky Partners II, L.P.
                                 Granting a non-exclusive communications
5         2016       6-28-16     franchise to Google Fiber Kentucky, LLC, and
                                 authorizing the execution of a uniform
                                 franchise agreement
                                 Granting a ten-year, non-exclusive franchise
Res. 1    2020-2021  10-20-20    to Spectrum Mid- America, LLC for a
                                 communications system
                               
                               
 
TABLE IV: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Series No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Series No. Date Passed Description
                                    Cooperation agreement with Jefferson County
G-D–       –        5-25-93     concerning the Home Investment Partnership
                                    Program
G-D1         1994       9-27-94     Authorization for negotiation of franchise
                                    agreement with county cable commission
G-D13        1994       12-27-94    Authorization for provision of police
                                    services to the City of Plantation
G-D6         1995       10-24-95    Adoption of negotiation of franchise
                                    agreement with county cable commission
Res. G-D3    1998-99    6-22-99     Authorization for provision of police
                                    services to the City of Briarwood
                                    Establishing a metro partnership program
G-D3         2006-2007  9-26-06     with suburban cities for a capital
                                    improvement program
                                    Approving an interlocal agreement between
                                    the City of Graymoor-Devondale and the City
1            2014       12-23-14    of Lyndon for the provision of code
                                    enforcement services by the city of
                                    Graymoor-Devondale Police Department
                                    Approving an interlocal agreement between
                                    the City of Graymoor-Devondale and the City
3            2015       2-24-15     of Old Brownsboro Place for the provision
                                    of police services by the City of Graymoor-
                                    Devondale Police Department
Mun. Order 1 2021       4-20-21     Authorizing participation in the Kentucky
                                    League of Cities Investment Pool Plus
                                    Approving an interlocal agreement between
                                    the City of Graymoor-Devondale and the City
Mun.Order 3  2022       8-16-22     of Lyndon for the provision of police
                                    services by the City of Lyndon Police
                                    Department
                                  
 
TABLE V: STREET CLOSINGS
 
Ord. No.  Series No. Date Passed Description
G1        1972       - -72       Closing portions of Calimar Lane
G-D6      1996-97    4-22-97     Closing portions of Oxted Lane
G-D7      1996-97    4-22-97     Closing portions of Fair Meadows Lane
Res. G-D1 1996-97    11-25-97    Closing portions of Boxwood Road
4         2017       8-22-17     Closing a portion Carlimar Lane
                               
 
TABLE VI: STREET NAMES
 
Ord. No.  Series No. Date Passed Description
                                 Adopting corrected names for Calimar Lane,
Res. G-D- 1990       9-25-90     Dartmore Drive, Devondale Drive and Girard
                                 Drive
 
TABLE VII: ZONING CHANGES
Ord. No. Series No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Series No. Date Passed Description
G-D3     1994       6-28-94     Changing the zoning classification of a tract
                                of land from R-4 and R-6 to R-5A
G-D8     1997       10-28-97    Changing the zoning classification of Fehrway
                                Park from R-4 to R-5A
G-D8     2005-2006  6-27-06     Changing the zoning classification of property
                                located at 1107 Lyndon Lane from R-4 to R-5A
                                Changing the zoning classification of property
G-D6     2006-2007  2-27-07     located at 4906 Brownsboro Road and 2000
                                Warrington Way from R-4 and OR-2 to PD Planned
                                Development
G-D9     2006-2007  6-26-07     Changing the zoning classification of property
                                located at 1102 Lyndon Lane from C-1 to C-2
3        2019-2020  1-21-20     Changing the zoning classification of property
                                located at 1701 Herr Lane from R-4 to OR
                                Changing the zoning classification of property
5        2023       3-21-23     located at 1920 and 1922 Herr Lane from R-4 to
                                R-5A
                              
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
 
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cite Code Section
KRS Cite                  Code Section
6.955 to 6.975            33.04
Chapter 13A               93.02
Chapter 13B               93.06
15.409                    34.16
Chapter 18A               113.03
18A.225                   111.04
Chapter 31                34.16
41.240                    33.53
42.450 to 42.495          33.04
43.050                    33.04
Chapter 44                114.18
Chapter 45A               34.16
Chapter 56                34.16
Chapter 61                32.21
61.168                    34.16
61.823(2) to (4)          91.15
61.870 et seq.            95.05
61.870 - 61.882           31.36
61.870 to 61.884          34.17
61.870                    31.36,
                          34.01
61.870(10)                34.05
61.872(4)                 34.06
61.872(5)                 34.07
61.872(6)                 34.08
61.874(1)                 34.12
61.874(2)                 34.12
61.874(3)                 34.12,
                          34.13
61.874(4)                 34.13
61.874(5)                 34.14
61.874(6)                 34.15
                          31.36,
61.878                    34.01,
                          34.16
61.878(1)                 34.16
61.880                    31.36,
                          34.09
61.880(1)                 34.16
61.884                    34.11
65.003                    37.03
                          39.01,
65.8801 - 65.8839         39.02,
                          39.14
65.8808                   39.02
65.8815(5)                39.05
65.8840                   150.42,
                          157.99
66.480                    33.46,
                          33.53
66.480(1)(a)              33.53
66.480(1)(b)              33.53
66.480(1)(c)              33.53
66.480(1)(d)           33.53
66.480(1)(e)              33.53,
                          33.54
66.480(1)(f)              33.53,
                          33.54
66.480(1)(g)              33.53,
                          33.54
66.480(1)(h)              33.53
66.480(1)(i)              33.53
66.480(1)(j)              33.53,
                          33.54
66.480(1)(k)              33.53,
                          33.54
66.480(1)(l)              33.53,
                          33.54
82.082                    37.03
Chapter 83A               31.20
83A.010(5)                10.02
83A.010(6)                10.02
83A.010(8)                10.02
83A.030(1)                30.02
83A.040(1)                31.21
83A.040(2)                31.21
83A.040(2)(c)             31.21
83A.040(2)(d)             31.21
83A.040(3)                31.21
83A.040(4)                32.01
83A.040(5)                32.02
83A.040(6)                31.21,
                          32.02
83A.040(7)                31.21,
                          32.02
83A.040(8)                31.21,
                          32.02
83A.040(9)                31.03
83A.060(1)                32.35
83A.060(2)                32.36
83A.060(3)                32.37
83A.060(4)                32.38
83A.060(5)                32.40
83A.060(6)                32.22
83A.060(8)                32.41,
                          32.42
83A.060(9)                32.43
83A.060(10)               32.44
83A.060(11)               32.45
83A.060(12)               32.46
83A.060(13)               32.46
83A.060(14)               32.47
83A.060(15)               32.48
83A.065                   50.02,
                          154.04
83A.070                   31.02
83A.080                   37.04
83A.085                   31.36
83A.130                   31.21
83A.130(1)                30.01
83A.130(2)                30.02
83A.130(3)                31.21
83A.130(4)                31.21
83A.130(5)                32.20
83A.130(6)                32.39
83A.130(7)                31.21,
                          32.38
83A.130(8)                31.21
83A.130(9)                31.21
83A.130(10)               31.21
83A.130(11)               32.03,
                          32.21
83A.130(12)               32.03
83A.130(13)               32.03
91A.010                   33.01
91A.010(8)                10.02
91A.020                   33.02
91A.030                   33.03
91A.040                   33.04
91A.060                   33.05,
                          33.46
91A.080                   113.08,
                          113.99
91A.080(2)                113.03
91A.080(3)                113.04
91A.080(8)                113.05,
                          113.06
91A.080(9)                113.05
91A.080(10)               113.04
91A.080(12)               113.01
91A.200                   33.11
91A.210                   33.10
91A.220                   33.11
91A.230                   33.12
91A.240                   33.13
91A.250                   33.14
91A.260                   33.15
91A.270                   33.16
91A.280                   33.17
91A.290                   33.18
95.019                    31.38
100.991                   150.26
Chapter 116               31.20
Chapter 117               31.20
Chapter 118               31.20
Chapter 119               31.20
Chapter 120               31.20
Chapter 121               31.20
131.010(6)                113.05
131.190                   34.16
132.285                   35.01
134.800                   35.04
134.810                   35.04
Chapter 136               35.06
139.200                   93.03
Chapter 154               34.16
174.100                   91.15
174.100(1)                91.16
174.100(2)                91.17
174.100(3)                91.18
174.100(4)                91.19
174.100(5)                91.20
186.042                   72.08
189.020                   71.27
189.290                   71.25
189.330(8)                71.02
189.635(8)(b)1.a. to e.   34.01
189.930                   71.26
189.990(1)                72.99
189.993(8)                71.99
196.099                   34.01
Chapter 198B              150.03
198B.990(1)               150.99
Chapter 218A              114.06
226.010                   112.01
226.020                   112.02
226.030                   112.07
226.040                   112.03
226.050                   112.04
226.060                   112.08
226.070                   112.03
226.080                   112.05
226.090                   112.06
226.100                   112.08
226.990(1)                112.99
226.990(3)                112.99
227.700                   93.01
227.702                   93.01
227.704                   93.01
227.706                   93.01
227.708                   93.01
227.710                   93.02
227.715(1)                93.03
227.715(7)                93.03
227.715(8)                93.03
227.720                   93.04
227.730                   93.05
227.750                   93.06
227.990(1)                150.99
227.990(4)                93.99
Chapter 241               114.01
Chapters 241 - 244        39.07,
                          114.99
Chapter 243               114.01
243.020                   114.19
243.070                   114.07
243.360                   114.02
243.480                   39.07
243.490                   39.07
243.630                   114.09
Chapter 244               114.01,
                          114.13
244.050                   114.15
244.083                   114.14
244.150                   114.17
Chapter 304               113.99
Chapter 304, Subtitle 17B 113.04
318.990                   150.99
Chapter 342               113.04
                          32.43,
Chapter 424               33.04,
                          33.14,
                          33.15
424.130                   72.07
424.190(2)                33.04
424.220                   33.04
446.010(1)                10.02
446.010(2)                10.02
446.010(9)                10.02
446.010(10)               10.02
446.010(12)               10.02
446.010(13)               10.02
446.010(14)               10.02
446.010(15)               10.02
446.010(17)               10.02
446.010(18)               10.02
446.010(23)               10.02
446.010(26)               10.02
446.010(27)               10.02
446.010(28)               10.02
446.010(31)               10.02
446.010(33)               10.02
446.010(37)               10.02
446.010(39)               10.02
446.010(43)               10.02
446.010(46)               10.02
446.010(47)               10.02
446.010(49)               10.02
446.020(1)                10.03
446.020(2)                10.03
446.030                   10.04
446.050                   10.05
446.060                   10.06
446.080(1)                10.03
446.080(3)                10.03
446.080(4)                10.03
446.090                   10.07
446.100                   10.09
446.140                   10.01
520.010                   34.01
                          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.             Date Passed Code Section
G-D1, Series 1988    6-27-88     T.S.O. III
G-D-, Series 1990    9-25-90     T.S.O. VI
G-D1, Series 1993    2-23-93     32.01
G-D1, Series 1996    2-27-96     38.02
G-D1, Series 1996-97 11-25-97    T.S.O. V
G-D2, Series 1997-98 3-24-98     T.S.O. III
G-D3, Series 1998-99 6-22-99     T.S.O. IV
Res. - -          3-24-15     T.S.O. II
1, Series 2020-2021  10-20-20    T.S.O. III
                                
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. Number Date Passed Code Section
Ord. Number               Date Passed Code Section
G8, Series 1960           - -60       T.S.O. I
G12, Series 1960          - -60       T.S.O. I
D4, Series1962            7-11-62     T.S.O. I
D5, Series 1962           11-7-62     T.S.O. I
D6, Series 1962           12-12-62    T.S.O. I
D8, Series 1962           1-30-62     T.S.O. I
D9, Series 1962           1-30-62     T.S.O. I
D10, Series 1963          6-12-63     T.S.O. I
D13, Series 1963          8-14-63     T.S.O. I
D14, Series 1963          9- -63      T.S.O. I
D15, Series 1963          10-9-63     T.S.O. I
D16, Series 1963          11-13-63    T.S.O. I
D16, Series 1965          11-22-65    T.S.O. I
G1 Series 1972            - -72       T.S.O. V
G1, Series 1978           12-19-78    T.S.O. I
G3, Series 1979           - -79       T.S.O. III
D3, Series 1979           - -79       T.S.O. III
D1, Series 1980-81        - -81       72.08
D3, Series 1981           - -81       T.S.O. I
D4, Series 1981           - -81       T.S.O. I
D5, Series 1981           - -81       T.S.O. I
D6, Series 1981           - -81       T.S.O. I
D7, Series 1981           - -81       T.S.O. I
D8, Series 1981           11-23-81    T.S.O. I
D9, Series 1981           11-23-81    T.S.O. I
D10, Series 1981          11-23-81    T.S.O. I
D11, Series 1981          11-23-81    T.S.O. I
D12, Series 1982          7-26-82     T.S.O. III
G2, Series 1982           8-17-82     T.S.O. III
D4, Series 1983           4-25-83     90.01
D10, Series 1983          12-5-83     130.01
G14, Series 1983          12-20-83    T.S.O. I
D1, Series 1984           4-23-84     T.S.O. I
D3, Series 1984           1-12-85     T.S.O. I
D3, Series 1985           7-22-85     T.S.O. I
G-D1, Series 1987         2-23-87     31.37,
                                      31.38
                                      72.01,
G-D2, Series 1988         4-25-88     72.06,
                                      72.07
                                      110.01 -
G-D, Series 1989          - -89       110.15,
                                      110.99
G-D4, Series 1990         7-24-90     113.03,
                                      113.04
                                      151.25 -
G-D8, Series 1992         10-27-92    151.30,
                                      151.99
G-D9, Series 1992         10-27-92    50.01,
                                      50.99
G-D10, Series 1992        11-6-92     31.40
G-D11, Series 1992        11-24-92    152.01
G-D–, Series -          5-25-93     T.S.O. IV
G-D1, Series 1994         9-27-94     T.S.O. IV
G-D3, Series 1994         6-28-94     T.S.O. VII
G-D10, Series 1994        10-25-94    155.01,
                                      155.02
G-D11, Series 1994        10-25-94    37.01-
                                      37.09
G-D12, Series 1994        11-22-94    152.01
G-D13, Series 1994        12-27-94    T.S.O. IV
G-D1, Series 1995         1-22-95     32.21
G-D6, Series1995          10-24-95    T.S.O. IV
                                      72.01,
G-D4, Series 1996-97      7-22-97     72.06,
                                      72.07
                                      72.01,
G-D5, Series 1996-97      3-25-97     72.06,
                                      72.07
G-D6, Series 1996-97      4-22-97     T.S.O. V
G-D7, Series 1996-97      4-22-97     T.S.O. V
G-D8, Series 1997         10-28-97    T.S.O. VII
G-D3, Series 1997-98      6-24-97     154.03,
                                      154.99
                                      72.01,
G-D4, Series 1997-98      7-22-97     72.06,
                                      72.07
G-D5, Series 1997-98      8-26-97     150.20 -
                                      150.26
G-D7, Series 1997-98      12-23-97    152.01
G-D9, Series 1997-98      2-24-98     156.01,
                                      156.02
G-D10, Series 1997-98     12-23-97    152.01
G-D12, Series 1997-98     6-23-98     150.21
G-D3, Series 1998-99      9-22-98     155.01,
                                      155.02
                                      154.01,
G-D3, Series 1999-2000    8-24-99     154.02,
                                      154.04,
                                      154.99
G-D4, Series 1999-2000    7-27-99     50.02
G-D5, Series 1999-2000    2-22-00     153.01
G-D3, Series 2000-01      7-25-00     72.01
G-D4, Series 2000-01      7-25-00     152.01
G-D5, Series 2000-01      11-28-00    T.S.O. II
G-D3, Series 2001-02      9-25-01     T.S.O. II
G-D4, Series 2001-02      9-23-01     152.01
G-D6, Series 2001-02      5-28-02     151.26,
                                      151.29
G-D3, Series 2002-2003    4-22-03     152.01
G-D10, Series 2004-2005   9-28-04     152.01
G-D11, Series 2004-05     10-26-04    92.03
                                      95.01 -
                                      95.10,
                                      95.20 -
                                      95.41,
                                      95.50 -
G-D13, Series 2005        4-26-05     95.64,
                                      95.70 -
                                      95.73,
                                      95.80 -
                                      95.82,
                                      95.90,
                                      95.91
G-D15, Series 2004-05     5-24-05     70.30 -
                                      70.35
                                      31.40,
                                      32.21,
                                      35.02,
                                      50.02,
                                      50.99,
                                      71.27,
                                      71.28,
                                      72.01,
                                      72.02,
G-D4, Series 2005-2006    10-25-05    72.06,
                                      73.02,
                                      73.03,
                                      91.01,
                                      92.03,
                                      110.04,
                                      110.07,
                                      150.20,
                                      150.22,
                                      150.23,
                                      150.26
G-D5, Series 2004-2005    12-27-05    32.21
G-D6, Series 2005-2006    12-27-05    31.41
G-D7, Series 2005-2006    4-25-06     152.01
G-D8, Series 2005-2006    6-27-06     T.S.O. VII
G-D3, Series 2006-2007    9-26-06     T.S.O. IV
G-D4, Series 2006-2007    12-19-06    37.08
G-D6, Series 2006-2007    2-27-07     T.S.O. VII
G-D7, Series 2006-2007    3-27-07     152.01
G-D8, Series 2006-2007    4-24-07     110.12
G-D9, Series 2006-2007    6-26-07     T.S.O. VII
G-D3, Series 2007-2008    7-24-07     72.01
G-D4, Series 2007-2008    8-28-07     151.01 -
                                      151.10
                                      96.01 -
G-D5, Series 2007-2008    10-23-07    96.03,
                                      96.99
G-D8, Series 2007-2008    3-25-08     152.01
G-D9, Series 2007-2008    6-24-08     152.01
G-D10, Series 2007-2008   6-24-08     36.01
G-D11, Series 2007-2008   6-24-08     31.38
G-D4, Series 2008-2009    4-28-09     154.03
                                      114.01 -
                                      114.06,
G-D5, series 2009-2010    6-22-10     114.08 -
                                      114.22,
                                      114.99
G-D6, Series 2009-2010    5-25-10     110.12
G-D3, Series 2011-2012    8-23-11     150.23
                                      93.35 -
G-D5, Series 2011-2012    10-25-11    93.38,
                                      93.99
G-D6, Series 2011-2012    11-22-11    T.S.O. III
G-D9, Series 2011-2012    6-26-12     150.40 -
                                      150.43
G-D3, Series 2012-2013    7-24-12     33.30 -
                                      33.32
                                      115.01 -
G-D4, Series 2012-2013    3-6-13      115.04,
                                      115.99
                                      93.35 -
G-D5, Series 2012-2013    4-23-13     93.38,
                                      93.99
4, Series 2013-2014       8-27-13     115.02
6, Series 2013            9-24-13     114.07
1, Series 2014            12-23-14    T.S.O. IV
3, Series 2015            2-24-15     T.S.O. IV
3, Series 2016            11-22-16    114.07
5, Series 2016            6-28-16     T.S.O. III
4, Series 2016-2017       1-24-17     39.01 -
                                      39.17
4, Series 2017            8-22-17     T.S.O. V
5, Series 2017-2018       1-23-18     32.21
7, Series 2018            6-19-18     153.01
                                      113.01 -
19-04, Series 2019        3-5-19      113.08,
                                      113.99
3, Series 2019-2020       1-21-20     T.S.O. VII
                                      157.01 -
5, Series 2019-2020       4-21-20     157.07,
                                      157.99
Mun. Order 1, Series 2021 4-20-21     T.S.O. IV
4                         4-20-21     33.45 -
                                      33.58
                                      34.01,
3, Series 2021-2022       8-17-21     34.05,
                                      34.07,
                                      34.09
4, Series 2022            3-15-22     113.01
Mun. Order 1,Series 2022  6-21-22     36.01
Mun. Order 3, Series 2022 8-16-22     T.S.O. IV
                                      33.04,
                                      39.13,
                                      50.99,
                                      70.99,
                                      71.99,
                                      72.99,
                                      91.99,
                                      92.99,
                                      93.03,
                                      93.99,
                                      94.99,
                                      96.02,
3, Series 2022-2023       11-15-22    96.99,
                                      110.08,
                                      110.99,
                                      111.99,
                                      112.99,
                                      114.07,
                                      114.99,
                                      115.02,
                                      115.99,
                                      150.99,
                                      151.26,
                                      151.99,
                                      154.99
4, Series 2022-2023       11-18-22    152.01
3, Series 2023            9-19-23     T.S.O. I
5, Series 2023            3-21-23     T.S.O. VII
                                     
 
