CITY OF GREEN SPRING, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 3-2021, passed 6-17-21;
State legislation current through 2021
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Green Spring Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state. (KRS 446.010
(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS.  The automated vehicle information system established and maintained
by the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information
on vehicles and boat and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards. (KRS 446.010(55))
   BIENNIUM. The two year period commencing on July 1 in each even-numbered
year and ending on June 30 in the ensuing even-numbered year. (KRS 446.010(53))
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Any method of governmental, commercial or electronic
delivery that allows a document or package to have proof of:
      (1)   Sending the document or package;
      (2)   The date the document or package was delivered or delivery was
attempted; and
      (3)   The signature of the receipt of the document or package.
(KRS 446.010(8))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Green Spring irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMMISSION. The City Commission. (KRS 83A.010(3))
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNTY. Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees. (KRS
446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability companies, means all those incorporated or formed by
authority of this state. (KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Commission. (KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state. (KRS 446.010(18))
   GOOD ORDER AND REPAIR.
      (1)   Sidewalk is broken or uneven grade;
      (2)   Severe spalling (pitting) or surface deterioration;
      (3)   Sidewalk has negative pitch (slopes away from street);
      (4)   Sidewalk sections project above walk grade (one half inch or more);
      (5)   Joint or crack offset a half inch or more;
      (6)   Excessive cracks - pieces less than two feet any direction;
      (7)   Sidewalk with excessive slope, exceeding four inches in four feet;
      (8)   Joint failure is evident; and
      (9)   Other condition causing an unsafe surface in the opinion of the
City Code Enforcement Board or an Officer of the City Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. passed - - )
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Commission. (KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Commissioner. (KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species. (KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month. (KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Green Spring, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited partnerships. (KRS 446.010
(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables, coroners, jailers,
metropolitan and urban- county government correctional officers, marshals,
policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make arrests. (KRS
446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies. (KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Any governmental, commercial, or electronic method of
delivery that allows a document or package to have:
      (1)   Its chain of custody recorded in a register to enable its location
to be tracked;
      (2)   Insurance available to cover its loss; and
      (3)   The signature of the recipient of the document or package available
to the sender.
(KRS 446.010(36))
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year. (KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of City
Commission.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of City Commission in enacting
any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that City
Commission would not have enacted the remaining parts without the
unconstitutional part, or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are
incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of
City Commission.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of City Commission.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of City Commission as long as it takes effect prior to the
effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
City Commission which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of City Commission as long as
the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of City Commission repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Commission, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall
remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until City Commission shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.
Example:   (Ord. 1-1960, passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 1-1970, passed 1-1-70; Am.
Ord. 1-1980, passed 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 2-1980, passed 6-1-80)
   (B)   (1)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that
the text of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute.
Example:   (KRS 83A.090) (Ord. 1-1980, passed 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 1-1985, passed
1-1-85).
      (2)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
Example:
   § 39.10 MAYOR.
      The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised by
the Mayor.
   (Ord. 1-1980, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
      For powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COMMISSION PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COMMISSION
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
37.   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
CHAPTER 30: COMMISSION PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided in this chapter shall be known as the
“Commission Plan.”
(KRS 83A.140(1)) (Ord. 2-1981, passed 3-5-81)
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected officer who shall be called
Mayor and by elected legislative body members who shall be called City
Commissioners and which together shall be known as the City Commission and by
such other officers and employees as may be provided for by statute or city
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.140(2))
   (B)   The City Commission shall be composed of the Mayor and four
Commissioners.
(KRS 83A.030(2)) (Ord. 2-1981, passed 3-5-81)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem
   
31.22   Commissioners
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk
   
31.37   City Treasurer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of           , according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or
affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen
of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this
State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel
with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor
aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God,” as established by
section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Bond. Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS
62.060.
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every
elected city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in
which the officer is elected. An elected officer's compensation shall not be
changed after his election or during his term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and Commissioners
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the State Finance and Administration
Cabinet computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with section 246 of the Constitution of
Kentucky, which provides that the Mayor and Commissioners shall be paid at a
rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The Commission shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
State Finance and Administration Cabinet.
   (B)   The Commission shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The Commission shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the Commission
exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the deliberation
of his removal. No elected officer shall be removed without having been given
the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the right to
appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on the
record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before the
expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Commission at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers is governed by general election laws as
provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless the Commission prescribes by
ordinance that election of city officers shall be under nonpartisan city
election laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A. Such ordinance shall become
effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by the election
law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with the County
Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which any city
office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any ordinance
prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city election
laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of the
county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and Commissioners may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
§ 31.21 MAYOR; MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His term of office shall begin on the first day of January following his
election and shall be for four years and until his successor qualifies. If a
person is elected or appointed as mayor in response to a vacancy and serves
less than four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be
considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his term
of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the Commission
shall fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
office of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor
shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall
serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Commission may vote for himself. (KRS 83A.040(2)(b))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his successor. (KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation shall be effective at
the next regular or special meeting of the city legislative body occurring
after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Commission shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy. (KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Commission shall elect from among its members an
individual to preside over meetings of the City Commission during any vacancy
in the office of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may
vote in all proceedings.
      (2)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
authorized by ordinance or resolution shall be executed by the Mayor on behalf
of the city.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
   (E)   Mayor Pro Tem.
      (1)   The Commission shall designate one City Commissioner to serve as
Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem shall act for the Mayor whenever the Mayor is
unable to attend to the duties of his office and he shall then possess all
rights, powers, and duties of Mayor.
      (2)   If the disability of the Mayor to attend to his duties continues
for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared vacant by a
majority vote of the Commission membership, and the provisions of division (C)
above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
§ 31.22 COMMISSIONERS.
   For provisions concerning the City Commission, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   All nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Commission.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Commission at will
unless otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk.
      (2)   City Treasurer.
(Ord. 3-1982, passed 1-14-82)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1), (2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The office of the City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any
other nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of such
office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail to the Department for
Local Government a list containing current city information including but not
limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the
following appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer;
            3.   City Manager;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Finance Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief; and
            8.   Public Works Director;
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall, and
telephone number of the city hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; and
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City
Commission from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless such
person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
(Ord. 3-1982, passed 1-14-82)
§ 31.37 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   The office of City Treasurer is hereby established.
   (B)   The City Commission shall appoint a City Treasurer who shall be the
custodian of all funds of the city. The City Commission may remove the City
Treasurer at will unless otherwise provided by statute or ordinance. He shall
have graduated from an accredited high school and shall be chosen on the basis
of his secretarial and accounting skills.
   (C)   The City Treasurer shall have and exercise all powers and duties
assigned to him by statute, this chapter, and such other municipal
responsibilities delegated from time to time. He shall advise the City
Commission and all other city officers and employees in all financial matters
pertaining to their municipal duties or employment or affecting the interests
of the city. He shall collect, keep safe, promptly deposit, and account for all
city revenues and moneys from all sources; shall maintain accurate and complete
records of all city financial transactions according to accepted accounting
standards; and shall submit summary statements of receipts and disbursements
monthly to the City Commission. He shall prepare and maintain payroll records
for all city officers and employees, verify the public purpose of and the
city's legal obligation for all disbursements from city funds, pay all claims
and accounts against the city approved by the City Commission, and sign all
checks authorized to be issued against city funds.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Treasurer unless such
person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, and has provided a bond in the sum of $50,000, with
corporate surety authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth of
Kentucky and conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
   (E)   The compensation of the City Treasurer shall be in an amount to be
established by the City Commission by ordinance.
CHAPTER 32: CITY COMMISSION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Each Commissioner to superintend specific city departments
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.40   Official city records
   
32.41   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.42   Publication requirements
   
32.43   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.44   Periodic review required
   
32.45   Municipal orders
   
32.46   Proved by City Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.47   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Commissioner shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for City
Commission shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to
his or her election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January
following his election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his term
of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on the Commission occur in a way
that one or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30
days fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable
notice of his selection as will enable him to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this section. (KRS
83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Commission shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular meeting of the city legislative body. (KRS
83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Commission which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Commission shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy. (KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
Commission is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed. (KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   All legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the city
is hereby vested in and exercised by the Commission. The Commission shall
enforce the Commission Plan, ordinances and orders of the city, and all
applicable statutes.
      (1)   The Commission shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (2)   The Commission shall supervise all departments of city government
and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its jurisdiction and
may require each department to make such reports to it as it finds necessary.
      (3)   The Commission shall report to the public on the condition and
needs of the city government as provided by ordinance, but not less than
annually.
(KRS 83A.140(3))
   (B)   In carrying out its duty to supervise the departments of city
government and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its
jurisdiction, the Commission may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his
official duties. (KRS 83A.140(5))
   (C)   The Commission shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (D)   The Commission shall promulgate procedures to insure orderly
administration of the functions of city government and compliance with statute,
ordinance, or order.
   (E)   The Commission shall by ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate such funds in a budget which
shall provide for the orderly management of the city's resources.
(KRS 83A.140(8))
§ 32.04 EACH COMMISSIONER TO SUPERINTEND SPECIFIC CITY DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   All administrative and service functions of the city shall be
classified under departments created by ordinance which shall prescribe the
functions of the department and the duties and responsibilities of the
department head and his employees.
   (B)   The Commission shall at its first regular meeting in each year
designate the Commission member to have superintendence over each department
established under this section; however, the Commission may delegate
responsibility for overall supervision of any or all departments to a City
Administrative Officer established pursuant to KRS 83A.090.
(KRS 83A.140(6))
   (C)   In accordance with KRS 83A.140(6) the following departments are hereby
created. The functions of said departments and the duties and responsibilities
of the department heads and their employees shall be as prescribed by state law
for cities of the sixth class.
      (1)   Department of Finance. Duties shall include budget preparation, tax
assessment collection, advice to Treasurer, annual audit, procurement,
insurance coverage.
      (2)   Department of Transportation. Duties shall include road
maintenance, snow removal, signs, lines and markings.
      (3)   Department of Maintenance. Duties shall include mowing,
fertilizing, beautification oversight, street lights.
      (4)   Department of City Services. Duties shall include sanitation-sewer,
garbage collection, building permits (appointed commissioner shall serve as
chairman of the building plan review committee), sending of ordinance
summaries, deeds of restriction copies to new residents.
(Ord. 3-1984, passed 2-9-84)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may vote in
all proceedings. (KRS 83A.140(4))
Cross-reference:
   Vacancy in office of Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Commission shall be held at least once each
month at those times and places established by ordinance. The regular meeting
of the Commission shall be held on the third Thursday of each month at 7:00
p.m., prevailing time, at the Harrods Creek Fire Department, 8905 U.S. 42,
Prospect, Kentucky 40059-8837. If a legal holiday occurs on the day of the
meeting, the regular meeting of the Commission shall be held on the following
Thursday at 7:00 p.m. Legal holidays on which the above meeting dates may occur
are defined for the purpose of this division as New Year's Eve, New Year's Day,
July 4, Christmas Eve and Christmas Day.
(Ord. 1-1996, passed 3-14-96; Am. Ord. 2-2001, passed 6-21-01; Am. Ord. 1-2005,
passed 4-21-05; Am. Ord. 3-2012, passed 1-17-13)
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or a majority of the City
Commissioners. In the call, the Mayor or City Commissioners shall designate the
purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with sufficient notice for the
attendance of Commission members and for compliance with KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the City Clerk and by
the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.140(7))
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Commission
constitutes a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Green Spring.”
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Commission may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.42 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4), (7))
§ 32.39 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Commission may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or
nationally recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.40 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Commission is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Commission shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Commission has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and 32.41, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent
records of the city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.41 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted by the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.43 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.44 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.45 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   The Commission may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall
be in writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be
amended only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted
shall be maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Commission has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
§ 32.46 PROVED BY CITY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.47 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, City Commissioners shall be entitled to the
same immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No money shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund, except in accordance
with a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Commission.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as is
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the Commission not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal
year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   The Commission may adopt the budget ordinance making
appropriations for the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and
proper, whether greater or less than the sums recommended in the budget
proposal. The budget ordinance may take any form that the Commission finds most
efficient in enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   The Commission may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Commission. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to the Commission of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M) No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Each city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audit shall be completed by February 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic
copy of the audit report to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes by no later than March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited. (KRS 91A.040(1))
   (B)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law. (KRS 91A.040(5))
   (C)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under division (A) of this section to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor
of Public Accounts. (KRS 91A.040(6))
   (D)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include but not be limited to requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements,
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual or biennial audit report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or Federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit;
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the city legislative body at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's work papers upon request.
   (E)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to a
city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (F)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424 containing:
      (1)   The auditor's opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (G)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city or owner of real property within the city. The costs of
all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident or
property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party. (KRS 91A.040(10))
   (H)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in division (A) of this section, the city may
submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department for Local
Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local Government. The
Department for Local Government shall approve the request if it is submitted on
or before the applicable deadline, and in the judgment of the Department for
Local Government the request is warranted by extenuating circumstances beyond
the control of the city. Extensions granted under this subsection shall not
exceed nine months from the original due date of the audit or financial
statement. If the Department for Local Government approves an extension for a
city and the city fails to complete and submit the required audit or financial
statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then the provisions of
division (I) of this section shall apply. (KRS 91A.040(11))
   (I)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in division (A) and
division (H) of this section, the Department for Local Government shall notify
the Finance and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with
the audit requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of
any agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be withheld from the
city until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall
immediately notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city
complies with the requirements of division (A) and division (H) of this section
for all prior fiscal years it has failed to comply with the audit requirements
of this section, and the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the
reinstatement of payments to the city, including any funds that were withheld
due to the non-compliance. (KRS 91A.040(12))
   (J)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination. (KRS
91A.040(13))
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Commission shall designate as the city's official depositories one
or more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Commission which
states the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the
payment and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization
shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by the Commission of the special benefit
received by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis,
front foot basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may
include consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different
classes of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received,
and other factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefited by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement, in whole or in part, through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes. (KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Ch. 107
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. The
Commission may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned
property or it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that the other payments will coincide
with payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Commission shall
exempt any benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Format of copies
   
34.13   Fees for copies
   
34.14   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.15   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.16   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.17   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
      BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH AND PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE. A photograph or
image of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes
when the individual is booked into a detention facility as defined in KRS
520.010 or photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its new
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his actual
personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the
Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The city, including its legislative body and every officer,
department and division of the city; every entity created by authority of the
city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency created and controlled by the city; and
any interagency body in which the city participates.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by §
34.16.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in (1) to (5) of this
definition; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(8)(b)1.a.
to e.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency's computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant
and with the applicant's name printed legibly on the application. A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person's request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency's public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1))
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of §
34.16 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.16. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor's requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) - (3))
§ 34.13 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records;
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3), (4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.15
§ 34.14 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.13;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.15 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.13.
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.16 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (10)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage, and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility, or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied,
leased, or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, "terrorist act" means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(10)(a)6. of this
section; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law;
      (11)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (12)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (13)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law.
      (14)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited;
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31;
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos; and
      (18)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.08.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him. Such records shall
include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878)
§ 34.17 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   County assessment adopted
   
35.02   Due date; payment
   
35.03   Delinquency
   
35.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
35.05   Disposition of funds
§ 35.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the Jefferson County assessment for all real and personal property
situated within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the City Commission.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
§ 35.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due
on December 1.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who pays his city taxes before December 1 after they
become due shall be entitled to a 2% discount thereon, and the Clerk shall
allow the discount and give a receipt in full to the taxpayer.
§ 35.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on January 1 following their due dates.
   (B)   (1)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall
be subject to a penalty of 10% on the taxes due and unpaid. The delinquent
taxpayer shall also pay all costs and expenses incidental to any action taken
by the city for collection of the delinquent tax bill.
      (2)   From January 22 and beyond, the face amount of the bill plus 25%
penalty, plus interest from January 1 at 1.5% per month compounded monthly,
plus lien filing and attorney fees.
      (3)   All delinquent tax collection expenses incurred by the city,
including attorney’s fees and cost of initiating legal action, shall be deemed
a penalty in addition to that specified above and shall be encompassed within
the city’s lien.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by cities of the sixth
class.
   (D)   In accordance with the powers granted to cities in KRS 82.082 and
based on the authority set out in KRS 91A.070(2), the city may add to tax bill
arrearages owed for all taxes payable to the city the reasonable attorney fees
owed to the attorney employed by the city to collect the taxes, whether by
settlement or suit and said reasonable attorney fees shall be paid by the
taxpayer at such time as taxes in arrears, interest and penalties are paid.
Said attorney fees may be demanded and awarded by a court as an element of
damage in actions for the recovery of taxes owed to the city.
(Ord. 5-1995, passed 5-11-95; Am. Ord. 3-2017, passed 8-17-17; Am. Ord. 3-2018,
passed 7-19-18; Am. Ord. 2-2020, passed 8-20-20; Am. Ord. 3-2021, passed 6-17-
21)
§ 35.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
Jefferson County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 35.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Commission.
CHAPTER 36: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Purpose
   
36.02   Application
   
36.03   Standards of conduct
   
36.04   Provisions not to prohibit or limit power of City Commission
   
36.05   Violations
Financial Disclosure
   
36.15   Annual statement to be filed
   
36.16   When to file statements; amended statements
   
36.17   Form of statement
   
36.18   Control and maintenance of statements
   
36.19   Contents of statement
   
36.20   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Board of Ethics
   
36.30   Board created
   
36.31   Powers and duties
   
36.32   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
36.33   Notice of hearings
   
36.34   Appeals
 
   
36.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of KRS 65.063 as
enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
(Ord. 4-1994, passed 12-15-94)
§ 36.02 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to elected officials of the city. Any reference to
“officer” herein shall mean elected official.
(Ord. 4-1994, passed 12-15-94)
§ 36.03 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   Every officer of the city and every city agency shall comply with the
following standards of conduct:
   (A)   No officer or any immediate family member of any officer shall have an
interest in a business or engage in any business, transaction, or activity,
which is in substantial conflict with the proper discharge of the officer's
public duties.
   (B)   No officer shall intentionally use or attempt to use his or her
official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or advantages
for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer shall intentionally take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any discretionary
action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer to take or refrain
from taking any discretionary action, on any matter before the city in order to
obtain a financial benefit for any of the following:
      (1)   The officer.
      (2)   A family member.
      (3)   An outside employer.
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or any family member has a
financial interest.
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or any family member is
negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or professional
relationship.
   (D)   No officer shall be deemed in violation of any provision of this
section if, by reason of the officer's participation, vote, decision, action or
inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer, a family member, an
outside employer, or a business as defined in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of
this section, as a member of any business, occupation, profession, or other
group, to any greater extent than any gain could reasonably be expected to
accrue to any other member of the business, occupation, profession, or other
group.
   (E)   Every officer who has a prohibited financial interest which the
officer believes or has reason to believe may be affected by his or her
participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the scope of his or
her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value of the interest,
in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency served by the
officer, and the disclosure shall be entered on the official record of the
proceedings of the governing body. The officer shall refrain from taking any
action with respect to the matter that is the subject of the disclosure.
(Ord. 4-1994, passed 12-15-94)
§ 36.04 PROVISIONS NOT TO PROHIBIT OR LIMIT POWER OF CITY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent, prohibit or limit the power of
the City Commission of the city to employ or contract with any person, firm or
corporation when and if the Commission determines that such employment or
contract is in the best interests of the city.
   (B)   In accordance with KRS 65.003(3)(e), the City Commission hereby adopts
a policy of not prohibiting the employment of members of the families of
officials or employees of the city or county government.
(Ord. 4-1994, passed 12-15-94; Am. Ord. 3-1995, passed 4-13-95)
§ 36.05 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer of the city or any city agency who is found by the Board
of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall forfeit to the
city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit or gain which
the officer is determined by the Board to have realized as a result of the
violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by the city in a civil
action in the nature of debt, if the offender fails to pay the amount of the
forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer of the city or any
city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be sufficient cause
for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary action by the
executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other officer or
agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to remove or
discipline any officer for a violation of this chapter shall be taken in
accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the city and all
applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
   (C)   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state
law, an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year
after the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 4-1994, passed 12-15-94)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 36.15 ANNUAL STATEMENT TO BE FILED.
   Elected city officials shall file an annual statement of financial interests
with the Board of Ethics.
(Ord. 4-1994, passed 12-15-94)
§ 36.16 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests required by this section shall be
filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated as
the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later than 4:00 p.m. on
June 30 each year, provided that an officer newly-appointed to fill an office
with the city or a city agency shall file his or her initial statement no later
than 45 days after the date of the appointment.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer shall,
no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material change, file an
amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. 4-1994, passed 12-15-94)
§ 36.17 FORM OF STATEMENT.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer required to file the statement, by first class
mail or hand delivery, no later than January 31 of each year, and, in the case
of newly-appointed officers shall deliver a copy of the form to the newly-
appointed officer not more than ten days from the date of appointment.
(Ord. 4-1994, passed 12-15-94)
§ 36.18 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF STATEMENTS.
   The Board of Ethics shall be the “official custodian” of the statements of
financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated
by the Board of Ethics as the “custodian,” as public documents, available for
public inspection immediately upon filing.
(Ord. 4-1994, passed 12-15-94)
§ 36.19 CONTENTS OF STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer.
      (2)   The title of the filer's office or position of employment.
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer's spouse.
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer's immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, etc.).
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more.
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer's
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more.
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer's primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more.
      (8)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for personal, family or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 4-1994, passed 12-15-94)
§ 36.20 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall notify
by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
(Ord. 4-1994, passed 12-15-94)
BOARD OF ETHICS
§ 36.30 BOARD CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of three members who shall be
appointed by the City Commission. The initial members of the Board of Ethics
shall be appointed within 60 days of the effective date of this chapter. No
member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any elected or appointed office,
whether paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city or any city
agency. The members shall serve for a term of three years; except that with
respect to the members initially appointed, one member shall be appointed for a
term of not less than one year, and two members shall be appointed for a term
of not less than two years, all terms to expire on June 30 in the year of
expiration. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a term of three years. No
more than two of the members shall be of the same political party. Each member
of the Board of Ethics shall reside in the city throughout the term in office.
The members of the Board of Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of their known and
consistent reputation for integrity and their knowledge of local government
affairs. The members may be reappointed for any number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the executive
authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body, if different from
the executive authority, for misconduct, inability, or willful neglect of
duties. Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed from office under
this section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity for a hearing before
the executive authority and the legislative body, if different from the
executive authority.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 90 days by the
executive authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body, if
different from the executive authority. If a vacancy is not filled by the
executive authority within 90 days, the remaining members of the Board of
Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder
of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the legislative body, but shall be reimbursed for
all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a chairperson from among the
membership. The chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of two or more members shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of two or more members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a conflict of
interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board shall
disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself from
voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 4-1994, passed 12-15-94)
§ 36.31 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths.
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board.
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
executive authority of the city, the city legislative body, the governing body
of any city agency, the county attorney, or other appropriate person or body,
as necessary.
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter.
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to insure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Kentucky Open Records Act.
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of
the city.
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. 4-1994, passed 12-15-94)
§ 36.32 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this chapter
shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing
and signed by the complainant. If the Board of Ethics concludes that the
complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations sufficient to
establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the Board shall:
   (A)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as, lack of significant economic
advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to the city
and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence in city
government issue, in writing, a confidential reprimand to the officer or
employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the executive authority and governing body of the
city or city agency.
   (B)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
(Ord. 4-1994, passed 12-15-94)
§ 36.33 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter has
occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to the
officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party who
filed the complaint. If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration
of the evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of
a violation of this chapter, the Board may:
   (A)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation.
   (B)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body,
if different than the executive authority, of the city or city agency with
which the violator serves.
   (C)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body, if different from the executive authority, that the violator be
sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include a recommendation for
discipline or dismissal, or removal from office.
   (D)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000.
   (E)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws to
the county attorney or commonwealth's attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 4-1994, passed 12-15-94)
§ 36.34 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the circuit court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall
transmit to the clerk of the court all evidence considered by the Board at the
public hearing.
(Ord. 4-1994, passed 12-15-94)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer of the city or any city agency who is found by the Board of Ethics
to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board of Ethics
not to exceed $1,000 which may be recovered by the city in a civil action in
the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty within a prescribed
period of time.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under §
36.20 within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty of a
civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in an
amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500. Any
civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay
the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, and shall be
subject to a fine in an amount of not more than $500.
   (D)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, and
shall be subject to a fine in an amount of not more than $500.
(Ord. 4-1994, passed 12-15-94)
CHAPTER 37: CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
Section
   
37.01   Definitions
   
37.02   Creation and membership
   
37.03   Powers
   
37.04   Appointment of member; alternate members; terms of office; removal from
office; oath; and compensation
   
37.05   Organization of Board, meetings and quorum
   
37.06   Conflict of interest
   
37.07   Jurisdiction
   
37.08   Powers; duties
   
37.09   Enforcement proceedings
   
37.10   Hearing, notice and final order
   
37.11   Legal counsel
   
37.12   Appeals; final judgement
   
37.13   Fine
   
37.14   Lien; fines, charges and fees
   
37.15   Office and authority of Code Enforcement Officer
§ 37.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the content
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of a local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
(Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-20-05)
§ 37.02 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839 within the city,
a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of five members, each of whom
shall be at least 21 years of age and a resident of the city for a period of at
least one year prior to his or her appointment and shall reside there
throughout his or her term in office.
(Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-20-05)
§ 37.03 POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and/or to impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances
when a violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance the violation of which constitutes an offense under any provision of
the Kentucky Revised Statutes, including specifically, any provision of the
Kentucky Penal Code and any moving motor vehicle offense.
(Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-20-05)
§ 37.04 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; ALTERNATE MEMBERS; TERMS OF OFFICE; REMOVAL
FROM OFFICE; OATH; AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the
executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of the legislative
body.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the five members Code Enforcement Board
shall be as follows:
      (1)   One member appointed to a one-year term.
      (2)   Two members appointed to a two-year term.
      (3)   Two members appointed to a three-year term.
   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. Any member
may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (C)   The executive authority may appoint, subject to the approval of the
legislative body, two alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement Board
in the absence of regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of the
qualifications and shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply to
regular members of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (D)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the executive authority,
subject to approval of the legislative body within 60 days of the vacancy. If
the vacancy is not filled within that time period, the remaining Code Board
members shall fill the vacancy.
   (E)   A Code Board member may be removed from office by the executive
authority for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The
executive authority must submit a written statement to the member and the
legislative body setting forth the reasons for removal.
   (F)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board must, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (G)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reimbursed for actual
expenses.
   (H)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board may hold any elected or non-
elected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-20-05)
§ 37.05 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD, MEETINGS, AND QUORUM.
   (A)   The Board shall annually elect a chair from among its members. The
chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of the
Board. In his or her absence, the Board shall designate any member to be acting
chairperson.
   (B)   Meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be special meetings held
in accordance with the requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act, and may
be called by either the chairperson or by the executive authority of the city.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held
in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and the Kentucky Open
Meetings Act.
   (D)   The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the Board shall be
necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
   (F)   The Board shall annually elect a secretary from among its members. The
secretary's duties shall include the preparation of minutes of the meeting. The
secretary shall be custodian of notices of violation, citations issued,
subpoenas, and other documents relating to the operation of the Board. Ail
fines and costs shall be paid to the secretary who shall forthwith pay over
sums received to the City Treasurer.
(Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-20-05)
§ 37.06 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided, shall disclose the
nature of the interest and shall disqualify himself/herself from voting on the
matter in which (s)he has an interest and shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum.
(Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-20-05)
§ 37.07 JURISDICTION.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have jurisdiction to enforce and shall
enforce those city ordinances and code provisions which specifically provide
for code board enforcement.
(Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-20-05)
§ 37.08 POWERS; DUTIES.
   The City of Green Spring Code Enforcement Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings.
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any Code
Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The chairperson or acting chairperson
shall have the authority to administer oaths for the purpose of taking
testimony.
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce.
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-20-05)
§ 37.09 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings before the Code Enforcement Board shall be
initiated only by the issuance of a citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, if a Code Enforcement
Officer believes, based on his or her personal observation or investigation,
that a person has violated a city ordinance (s)he shall issue a Notice of
Violation to the offender allowing the offender a specified period of time to
remedy the violation without fine. If the offender fails or refuses to remedy
the violations within the time specified, the Code Enforcement Officer is
authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe
that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information;
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (4)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (5)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (6)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (7)   The civil fine that will be imposed for the violation if the person
does not contest the citation;
      (8)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects to
contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation, within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation and that the determination that the
violation was committed shall be final.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
the secretary of the Board.
   (F)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board to
contest the citation. If the person fails to respond to the citation within
seven days, the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing
and a determination following a hearing that a violation was committed may be
considered final.
   (G)   If the alleged violator does not pay the civil fine within seven days
of the citation or does not contest the citation within the time prescribed,
the Code Enforcement Board, following a hearing, enter a final order
determining that the violation was committed and impose the civil fine set
forth in the citation or impose other orders consistent with remedies
authorized by city ordinances. Charges and fees incurred by the city in
connection with the enforcement of the ordinance may be assessed in lieu of or
in addition to a civil fine. A copy of the final order shall be served on the
person guilty of the violation.
(Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-20-05)
§ 37.10 HEARING, NOTICE AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board shall
schedule a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted within 14 days of the
request, unless the requester wants or agrees to a continuance not to exceed 14
additional days.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by certified mail, return receipt
requested, by personal delivery, or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual
place of residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age
or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   Any person requesting a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board who
fails to appear at the time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to
have waived the right to a hearing to contest the citation. The Code
Enforcement Board, following a hearing, may enter a final order determining the
violation as committed and may impose the civil fine set forth in the citation.
A copy of the final order shall be served upon the person guilty of the
violation.
   (D)   All testimony shall be taken under oath and recorded. Testimony shall
be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged violator, and any
witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement Officer or alleged
violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due process
shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it determines that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it determines
that a violation was committed, an order shall be issued upholding the citation
and either imposing a fine up to the maximum authorized by this or other
ordnance or requiring the offender to remedy a continuing violation, or both.
   (F)   Every final order of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the date the order was issued. A copy shall be
furnished to the person named in the citation. If the person named in the
citation is not present when the final order is issued, the order shall be
delivered in accordance with the procedures set forth in division (B) above.
(Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-20-05)
§ 37.11 LEGAL COUNSEL.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board may be presented by an attorney
selected by the city or by a Code Enforcement Officer for the city. The city
attorney may either be counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may present
cases before the Code Enforcement Board, but in no case serve in both
capacities.
(Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-20-05)
§ 37.12 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from any final order of the Code Enforcement Board may be
taken to the appropriate County District Court within 30 days of the date the
order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and
a copy of the Code Enforcement Board’s order in the same manner as any civil
action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) above, the Code Enforcement Board's
order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-20-05)
§ 37.13 FINE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the City Code Enforcement
Board shall be as provided in each such ordinance.
(Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-20-05)
§ 37.14 LIEN; FINES, CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a final, non-appealable order of the Code Enforcement Board, or by a final
judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of a city ordinance for
all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by
the city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinances.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid.
   (C)   The lien shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens, except
state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in subsection A, the person found
to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the amount
of all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees, including
attorney fees, lien recording fees and court costs, incurred by the city in
connection with the enforcement of the ordinance. The city may bring a civil
action against the person and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-20-05)
§ 37.15 OFFICE AND AUTHORITY OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Code Enforcement Officer of the
city.
   (B)   In accordance with KRS 65.8805, Code Enforcement Officer means a city
police officer, safety officer, citation officer, county police officer,
sheriff, deputy sheriff, university police officer, airport police officer, or
other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a citation.
   (C)   Code Enforcement Officers for the city shall have the duty and
authority to issue citations for the violations of, and to enforce, all
ordinances of the city of which the Code Enforcement Board has jurisdiction.
   (D)   Code Enforcement Officers shall be appointed, pursuant to the
authority of KRS 63A.080 by the Green Spring Commission to serve at the
pleasure of the executive authority.
   (E)   Code Enforcement Officers for the city shall be required to take the
oath of office provided by the constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky
before entering upon the duties of office. A bond shall not be required to be
posted by individuals appointed as Code Enforcement Officers.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 11-17-05)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
   
50.01   Drainage control
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Chapter 91
§ 50.01 DRAINAGE CONTROL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or agent of any property within the
city to change the grade of his or her lot in any manner which affects or may
affect the flow of either the surface or the subsurface water on or under his
or her property or any adjoining property without first obtaining a permit from
the Superintendent of the Department of City Services or the City Commission.
   (B)   All owners of property within the city are responsible for maintaining
the swales, culverts, ditches, and grades in the area between their property
line and the paved portion of the street in such a condition that perform the
function for which they were initially intended by the developer charged with
the responsibility of designing roads.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or agent of any property to
construct onto or pave, except existing driveways and sidewalks, any portion of
the easement or right-of-way of such owner's lot.
(Ord. 4-1997, passed 11-20-97) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of §
50.01 shall be punishable by fine of not more than $500 for each offense. Each
day's continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions contained in KRS 65.8808, the maximum civil
fine shall be $500 and civil fines less than maximum if not contested shall be
$300.
(Ord. 4-1997, passed 11-20-97; Am. Ord. 9-2005, passed 11-17-05)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
    Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
   Use of certain structures and vehicles as residences prohibited, see §
130.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Police Department, vehicles
of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official business, and ambulances
on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the City
Commission.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the City
Commission and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the City Commission or any authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as
he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks. If these
temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the
City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”: Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal: Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”: Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”: Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights: When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the City Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
such vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain
in such position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep such position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he is on official business, shall
follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the provisions
of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he drive into, park the
vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where the vehicle has
stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he is directed
otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the fire
department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall either, while
proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions.
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the City
Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the City Commission or any authorized city official on forms provided by the
Commissioner or such officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10) The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at any
such assembly area or areas;
      (11) The interval of space to be maintained between units of the parade;
      (12) If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13) Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Commission.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If the City Commission or authorized
city official disapproves the application, it shall mail to the applicant
within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the
date on which the application was filed, a notice of its action stating the
reasons for denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Commission. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Commission shall act on the appeal within 30 days
after its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The City Commission;
   (B)   The City Attorney; and
   (C)   The Police Chief.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both. (KRS 189.993(8))
   (C)   Pursuant to the provisions contained in KRS 65.8808, the maximum civil
fine for violations against the provisions of §§
71.40 through
71.51 shall be $500 and civil fines less than maximum if not contested shall be
$50.
(Am. Ord. 9-2005, passed 11-17-05)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
   
72.13   Parking on public roadways during periods of snowfall
   
72.14   Operation or parking in median
   
72.15   Storage and parking restricted
   
72.16   Off-street parking
Impounding
   
72.20   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.21   Required notice to owner
   
72.22   Sale of vehicle
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Construction of parking pads prohibited, see §
91.08
   Use of certain structures and vehicles as residences prohibited, see §
130.02
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park such
vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the provisions
of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic sign or
signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02.
   (B)   On a sidewalk.
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway.
   (E)   Within an intersection or crosswalk.
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. This
does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during the performance of their official duties.
   (G)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign, or traffic-
control device.
   (H)   On any controlled access highway.
   (I)   Within a highway tunnel.
   (J)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
   (K)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
   (L)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5), (6)) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
(Ord. 3-1975, passed 5-5-75) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §
72.21 et seq.
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict
the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of
the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 -
71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee, or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.22.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner's
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B).
Penalty, see §
72.99 
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 PARKING ON PUBLIC ROADWAYS DURING PERIODS OF SNOWFALL.
   (A)   During periods of accumulated snowfall, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to leave any motor vehicle parked or unattended on
the traveled portion of any public roadway in the city.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle in violation of division (A) above of this section
may be towed away by order of the Police Chief, and the expense thereof shall
be paid by the owner of the vehicle before said vehicle is released to its
owner from the tow-in lot.
(Ord. 2-1978, passed 12-7-78) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 OPERATION OR PARKING IN MEDIAN.
   No person, firm or corporation shall park, leave, station, abandon or
operate any vehicle or object on any median adjacent to any public way of the
city.
(Ord. 3-1975, passed 5-5-75) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 STORAGE AND PARKING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No trailer, truck of a gross vehicle weight rating greater than 7,500
pounds, motorcycle, commercial licensed vehicle, any other type vehicle used
commercially, camper trailer, camping vehicle, or boat shall be parked or kept
on any lot at any time unless housed in a garage or basement. No vehicle which
is inoperable or unlicensed shall be parked on any lot (unless enclosed in a
garage) or on any city street in excess of 24 hours. No trailer, boat, truck of
gross vehicle weight rating greater than 7,500 pounds, or other type vehicle,
except an automobile, shall be parked on any city street for a period in excess
of 24 hours in any one calendar year.
   (B)   No automobile shall be habitually or repeatedly parked on any street
or median.
(Ord. 2-1998, passed 2-19-98) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cause or permit a motor vehicle
to be routinely or repeatedly parked or driven on lawns, unpaved portions of
any side yard or front yard or unpaved shoulder within the city in such a
manner as to cause damage to said lawns, unpaved surfaces and road shoulder.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in §
72.99, violations of this section shall be subject to impoundment and sale as
provided for in §§
72.20 through
72.22.
(Ord. 3-2000, passed 9-21-00; Am. Ord. 4-2003, passed 10-16-03) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle's release.
§ 72.21 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority, or private person or
business for any reason or when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority, or by private person or business, or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority, or by private person or business, the police, other authority,
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the State
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 and within
ten business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify
the registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license
number, and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of
the vehicle, and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor
vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) is placed in a garage or other
storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the notice
provided in division (A) by certified mail to the registered owner at the
address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined
in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of recovery of, or taking
possession of the motor vehicle. This notice shall contain the information as
to the make, model, license number, and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, the location of the vehicle, and the amount of reasonable charges due
on the vehicle. When the owner of the facility fails to provide notice as
provided herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall forfeit all storage
fees accrued after ten business days from the date of tow. This division (B)
shall not apply to a tow lot or storage facility owned or operated by the city.
(KRS 376.275(1), (2))
Editor’s note:
   KRS 376.275(1) and (2) were repealed by SB 71, sec. 12, March 22, 2021.
Current state law provisions concerning notification of owners of towed
vehicles can be found in KRS 281.928.
§ 72.22 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
division (B) below, for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in
accordance with KRS 281.926 and KRS 281.932, as long as it remains in his or
her possession.
      (2)   If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable
charges assessed in KRS 281.926 and KRS 281.932 have not been paid, the motor
vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in division (B) below, may be
sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have been notified
by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1), ten days prior
to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle
pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale
and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this division (A)(2)
shall be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by any existing
lienholder pursuant to division (B) below.
   (B)   A lienholder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title issued
by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail within the
first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928. Such
notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928 shall include the
make, model, license number, vehicle identification number, owner’s name and
last known address, and tentative date of sale for the vehicle, and state that
the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain a new title free and
clear of any liens, excluding tax liens. If the above-referenced certified
letter is not sent within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then
only ten days of storage may be charged. The lienholder has the right to take
possession of the motor vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and
paying the reasonable or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor
vehicle. If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession of the
motor vehicle under this division (B) within 45 days of notification, and all
lienholders agree in writing, the towing company or storage facility may obtain
a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens, excluding tax
liens. Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle subject to
a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190.
   (C)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS 281.920
to 281.936, KRS 359.230, and this section, the owner does not exercise the
right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this section within 45 days
of notification required under KRS 281.928, the tow company or storage facility
may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens,
excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1))
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount
not less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1))
   (B)   Violation of §
72.15 shall be punishable by fine of not more than $500 for each offense. Each
day's continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2-1998, passed 2-19-98)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of §
72.16 shall be fined in an amount no less than $25 nor more than $100. Each day
a violation occurs or continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (D)   Pursuant to the provisions contained in KRS 65.8808, the maximum civil
fine shall be $100 and civil fines less than maximum if not contested shall be
$50.
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 10-16-03; Am. Ord. 9-2005, passed 11-17-05)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations for operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions contained in KRS 65.8808, the maximum civil
fine shall be $50 and civil fines less than maximum if not contested shall be
$25.
(Am. Ord. 9-2005, passed 11-17-05)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   ENVIRONMENTAL NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   TREES
      
96.   PORTABLE STORAGE UNITS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Jefferson County Animal Control Regulations adopted
   
90.02   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.03   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.04   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.05   Torture of dogs or cats
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 JEFFERSON COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The Jefferson County, Kentucky, animal control regulations, being Chapter 91
of the Jefferson County Code of Ordinances, are hereby adopted as applicable
within the city limits.
§ 90.02 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in this section in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not limited to
being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal is caused to
fight for pleasure or profit) mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other
than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space,
or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (C)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife shall not constitute a violation of this section.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.03 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any officer of the
accredited Humane Society or Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal found
abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be injured,
diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him to
view the animal in his presence, or shall obtain consent to the destruction
from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his agent at
his last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may be turned over
to the nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of as the custodian
may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
   (D)   As used in this section, the term ABANDON means to forsake entirely,
or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform the legal obligations for care
and support of an animal by its owner, or his agent. Abandonment shall
constitute the relinquishment of all rights and claims by the owner to the
animal.
(KRS 257.100)
§ 90.05 TORTURE OF DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires,
TORTURE means the intentional infliction of or subjection to extreme physical
pain or injury, motivated by an intent to increase or prolong the pain of the
animal.
   (B)   A person is guilty of torture of a dog or cat when he or she without
legal justification intentionally tortures a domestic dog or cat.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing or injuring of a
dog or cat:
      (1)   In accordance with a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   For humane purposes;
      (3)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (4)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to training for organized dog or cat shows, or other animal shows in
which a dog or a cat, or both, participate;
      (5)   For bona fide animal research activities, using dogs or cats, of
institutions of higher education; or a business entity registered with the
United States Department of Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject
to other federal laws governing animal research;
      (6)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased dog or cat;
      (7)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
dog or cat;
      (8)   For animal or pest control; or
      (9)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (D)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife Resources shall not constitute a violation of this section.
   (E)   The acts specified in this section shall not constitute cruelty to
animals under KRS 525.125 or 525.130.
(KRS 525.135) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Torture of dogs and cats, second and subsequent offenses, a Class D felony,
see KRS 525.135
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates §
90.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
   
91.07   Use of construction equipment: additional permit requirements
   
91.08   Construction of parking pads prohibited
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public hearing required
   
91.16   Notice requirements
   
91.17   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.18   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
Maintenance and Repair of Sidewalks
   
91.45   Requirement to keep sidewalks in good order and repair
   
91.46   Notification of necessary repairs
   
91.47   Indemnification of city
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Drainage control, see §
50.01
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the City Commission or other authorized city official.
Application shall be made on a form prescribed by the City Commission, giving
the exact location of the proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and
depth to be excavated, and such other facts as may be provided for. The permit
shall be issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of
restoration has been posted with the City Commission or other authorized city
official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and
restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the City Commission or
other authorized city official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and
specifications approved by the City Commission.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the City Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Commission for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the City Commission shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall contract therefor for a period not exceeding
one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall furnish good and
sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the work. The City
Commission may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
§ 91.07 USE OF CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT: ADDITIONAL PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall use construction
equipment on or near paved streets within the city which use may result in
damage to or cutting of paved street surfaces, adjacent rights-of-way,
easements, common areas or utilities installed therein without having previous
to beginning of such use of construction equipment obtained a permit from the
City Commission.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for construction or repair work through the
use of construction equipment on or near paved street surfaces, adjacent
rights-of-way, easements, common areas or utilities installed therein, which
use may result in damage to or cutting of paved street surfaces, or other
damage as set out in division (A) of this section unless the applicant for a
permit executes a written agreement to repair and restore the affected area in
a manner and according to acceptable standards of road engineering or, as to
damage other than to the paved road surface, in a commercially reasonable
manner and, further provided, that the applicant shall post a bond in cast or
its equivalent with the city in an amount to be set by the City Commission or
its expert advisor in an amount estimated by the City Commission or its expert
advisor to be 110% of the cost of the city of rebuilding, repairing or repaving
the affected area in the event of default by the holder of a permit.
   (C)   Permits shall be issued by the City Clerk with the advice and consent
of the members of the City Commission and in accordance with the foregoing
requirements. Such permits shall specify the beginning and ending date of
construction and the date by which repair or repaving will be completed, and
will specifically describe the location and portion of any street or streets to
be affected by use of construction equipment. In the event the repaving or
repair work required by the permit is not completed within 30 days of the time
specified in such permit, the aforesaid bond shall be forfeited to the city.
   (D)   The bond provided for in division (B) of this section shall be
released at such time as the City Commission makes a determination that all
rebuilding, repaving and other requirements of the permit have been completed.
   (E)   The requirements of this section shall not prohibit the City
Commission from granting variances under circumstances which dictate such a
disposition; provided, however, that a written determination of the reason for
variances shall be made by the City Commission and incorporated in the minutes.
(Ord. 3-1997, passed 10-16-97) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 CONSTRUCTION OF PARKING PADS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity
to construct a parking space, also known as a parking pad, at any point, in
front of a residence or in a street side yard.
   (B)   This shall include any space between the driving surface and the
residential structure. Front yard shall mean the area extending across the full
width of any residential lot in the city and measured between the street right-
of-way line and the front line of the building or structure on such lot. For a
corner lot, a street side yard is a yard that extends from the front yard to
the rear lot line.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 7-21-11; Am. Ord. 3-2014, passed 10-16-14)
Cross-reference:
   Parking Regulations, see
Ch. 72
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall hold a hearing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter to take the sense of the public with regard to
the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for road and bridge
purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall hold a public hearing for the
purpose of taking the sense of the public with regard to road and bridge
matters within the city. Notice of the hearing shall be given not less than
seven days nor more than 21 days before the scheduled date of the public
hearing and before beginning work on any project covered by this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.17 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   At the hearing any person may speak with regard to any proposed
project, any project which he feels should be built or done which has not been
proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and any other matter related
to road or bridge projects.
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the testimony heard at the hearing but
shall give due consideration to it.
(KRS 174.100(2), (3))
§ 91.18 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the hearing as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.19 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate hearing for
each project. A single hearing encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
hearing, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(5))
§ 91.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair
or replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused
disasters nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to projects which
are under construction as of the effective date of this subchapter unless
construction is suspended after the effective date of this subchapter and the
city desires to reactivate the project.
(KRS 174.100(6), (7))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 91.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions,
accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed
12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may
have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS
§ 91.45 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP SIDEWALKS IN GOOD ORDER AND REPAIR.
   All owners of real estate abutting and fronting upon any street within the
corporate limits of the city are hereby required to keep the public sidewalks
immediately abutting said real estate in good order and repair at the expense
of said property owner.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 2-14-91) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.46 NOTIFICATION OF NECESSARY REPAIRS.
   The city may, in its discretion and through its duly authorized officer or
agent, notify such owners as described in §
91.45 that repairs or reconstruction are necessary to put the sidewalk in good
order and such owner shall within 30 days after such notification complete the
repairs or reconstruction as specified in such notice. If the owner fails to
make the required repairs or reconstruction, the city may repair same and the
owner shall be liable to the city for the cost of repairs. The city may
thereupon place a lien against the property abutting the sidewalk to be filed
in the office of the County Clerk. From and after the date of the lien notice,
the obligation shall bear interest at the legal rate.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 2-14-91)
§ 91.47 INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY.
   Each owner as described in §
91.45 shall indemnify and hold harmless the city from all claims or losses by
or to persons or property of others caused by said owner's failure to repair,
reconstruct, and keep in good order and in reasonably safe condition all such
sidewalks abutting and fronting his property upon any street or roadway within
the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 2-14-91)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction, be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation or entity who violates §
91.07 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $500 or sentenced to a term in the county jail not to exceed
90 days, or both, for each offense. Each day's violation of §
91.07 shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity found to be in
violation of §
91.08 shall pay a fine in the Jefferson District Court not to exceed $500 or,
in the alternative, a civil penalty to the Code Enforcement Board of the city
in an amount not to exceed $500. Each day’s violation of this section may be
considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 3-1997, passed 10-16-97)
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
§§
91.45 through
91.47 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $10 nor
more than $100 for each offense.
   (E)   Pursuant to the provisions contained in KRS 65.8808, the maximum civil
fine shall be $500 and civil fines less than maximum if not contested shall be
$300.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 2-14-91; Am. Ord. 9-2005, passed 11-17-05; Am. Ord. 2-
2011, passed 7-21-11; Am. Ord. 3-2014, passed 10-16-14)
CHAPTER 92: ENVIRONMENTAL NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Environmental nuisances prohibited
   
92.03   Litter, garbage and trash
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Criminal complaint for violation
   
92.06   Lien resulting from abatement by city
   
92.07   Liability for costs and damages
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 - 411.570
Editor's note:
   For similar provisions, see Jefferson County Code of Ordinances, Chapter 96
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Further,
all standards of the Kentucky Building Code will apply and are hereby
incorporated into the provisions of this chapter. This section shall not apply
to the deposit of materials under authorization by any Kentucky statute,
administrative regulation, ordinance, conditional use permit or other
appropriate governmental approval.
   APPLIANCE. This term includes, but is not limited to, items such as stoves,
refrigerators, freezers, washing machines, dryers, dishwashers and water
heaters.
   ENVIRONMENTAL NUISANCE. Any use of property which causes an annoyance,
hazard, or injury, which may be detrimental to the property of others. The term
includes, but is not limited to the following:
      (1)   Permitting the presence, existence or accumulation of waste,
rubbish, trash, or nonoperable appliances and nonoperable vehicles;
      (2)   Any plant growth exceeding six inches in height, other than crops,
trees, shrubs, flowers, or other ornamental plants. It is not the intent of
this provision to cause a change in the character of any geographical area but
only to remedy nuisances created by excessive growth of grass and weeds in
developed neighborhoods;
      (3)   Any shrub, tree, or other natural plant growth or any structure or
fixture which by reason of its size and location in relation to a driveway or
public thoroughfare limits the visibility of operators of motor vehicles;
      (4)   The disposal or accumulation of any foul, decaying, or putrescent
substances or other offensive materials in or on any lot, tract of land,
street, highway, or any sidewalk or alley abutting any of these.
   NONOPERABLE VEHICLES. Any agency for the transportation of persons or
property over or upon the public highways which is propelled otherwise than by
human or animal muscular power, and which is nonoperable or appears to be
nonoperable.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have legal title to any parcel of real estate, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care or control of any parcel of real estate as
owner or as executor, executrix, administrator, administratrix, trustee or
guardian of the estate of the owner or as lessee. Any such person thus
representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply with provisions of these
rules and regulations imposed upon the owner.
   RUBBISH. Any combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage,
including but not restricted to paper, rags, boxes, cartons, wood excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery, dust and the residue from the burning of combustible
materials;
   WASTE. Ashes, discarded wood, abandoned, discarded, or unused objects or
equipment such as furniture, appliances, junk cars, rubber tires, cans, or
containers, garbage or refuse of any kind, whether liquid or solid or any
accumulation of any foul, decaying, or putrescent substances.
   WEEDS. Any uncultivated plant growth such as, but not limited to, grass,
jimson, burdock, rag weed, thistle, johnson grass, sweet annie, beggar weed,
horse weed, cocklebur, or any other similar growth exceeding 12 inches in
height.
(Ord. 1-1993, passed 3-11-93; Am. Ord. 2-2003, passed 8-21-03)
§ 92.02 ENVIRONMENTAL NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, his agent or occupant, of real property,
public or private in the city, to cause, allow or permit an environmental
nuisance to exist on any property owned, occupied or under the control of said
person.
(Ord. 1-1993, passed 3-11-93) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 LITTER, GARBAGE AND TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, in person or by an
authorized agent, to drop, deposit, permit or acquiesce in the dropping,
depositing, scattering in any manner in or on any public or private property or
place within the city any trash, litter, garbage, rubbish, debris, offal,
refuse or waste of any kind, other noxious materials, whether solid or liquid,
or non-operable vehicles, nor shall an owner, his agent or occupant perform any
act with any of the aforementioned materials anywhere within the city on
private or public property in such a manner that the materials may be carried
or deposited in whole or in part by the action of the sun, wind, rain, snow, or
any of nature's elements so as to be scattered, deposited or conveyed to any of
the aforementioned places.
(Ord. 1-1993, passed 3-11-93) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall also be unlawful for any owner, his agent or occupant, in
person or by his authorized agent, to fail to remedy the existence of any
environmental nuisance in violation of the provisions of §
92.02.
   (B)   Notice in writing may be served upon an owner, his agent or occupant,
by hand delivery, first-class mail or by posting of same on the property. The
required notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner of
record of said property and to the address of the property. Such notice shall
describe the environmental nuisance so maintained and shall demand abatement of
the nuisance within ten calendar days from the date of notice, unless the
nuisance constitutes an immediate danger to the health, safety, and well-being
of the community, in which case notice shall demand immediate abatement.
(Ord. 1-1993, passed 3-11-93) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 CRIMINAL COMPLAINT FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person, firm, corporation, owner, his agent or occupant, who has been
sent notice of violation or failed to abate the condition may be charged with a
violation of this chapter in a criminal complaint returnable to Jefferson
District Court.
(Ord. 1-1993, passed 3-11-93) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 LIEN RESULTING FROM ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   Upon failure of any owner, his agent or occupant, to comply with the notice
by abating such conditions, responsible officers or persons designated by the
Mayor are authorized to enter upon said property to remedy the condition. The
city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable value of the
labor and materials used in remedying such situations. This will include the
cost of cutting, clearing and removal of said environmental nuisances in
addition to other reasonable actions necessary to abate same. The affidavit of
the responsible officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of
the lien and the proceedings pursuant to this chapter and upon the same being
recorded in the office of the County Clerk, said document shall establish and
constitute a lien upon and against the property wherein such labor and
materials were employed to abate such public nuisance. The recording of the
lien shall be notice to the public at large of the existence of the lien and
the same shall bear interest at the current rate set by ordinance from date of
lien and thereafter until paid.
(Ord. 1-1993, passed 3-11-93)
§ 92.07 LIABILITY FOR COSTS AND DAMAGES.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter may become
individually liable to the city for not only the cost described in §
92.06, but also for all costs, expenses, attorney fees and/or civil damages
incurred by the city to enforce the provisions of this chapter, for each parcel
of real property found to be in violation for those periods as charged.
(Ord. 1-1993, passed 3-11-93)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner, his or her agent or occupant, who violates any provision of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than $25 nor
more than $500; or imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 50 days, or
both, for each offense. Each day in which any such violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions contained in KRS 65.8808, the maximum civil
fine shall be $500 and civil fines less than maximum if not contested shall be
$300.
(Ord. 1-1993, passed 3-11-93; Am. Ord. 9-2005, passed 11-17-05)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   FIREWORKS means any composition or device for the purpose of producing
a visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and
which meets the definition of “consumer fireworks” as defined in division (B)
of this section or “display” fireworks as defined in division (D) of this
section and as set forth in the U.S. Department of Transportation's (DOT)
hazardous materials regulations. FIREWORKS does not include:
      (1)   Exception number 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS means fireworks that are suitable for use by the
public, designed primarily to produce visible effects by combustion and comply
with the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the
U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of
pyrotechnic contents of these devices are limited as enumerated in this
chapter. Some small devices designed to produce audible effects are included,
such as whistling devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of
explosive composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of
explosive composition. CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer
Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts 1500 and 1507, are classified
as Division 1.4G explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and
include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
in mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockers. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term “mine” refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term “shell” refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A
mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The term “cake” refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge if any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or busting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-fourths (1-3/4) inches. In addition, the maximum quantity
of lift charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity
of break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total
weight of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of
all the shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The
user lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the
fuse extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure to the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 miligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   DISPLAY FIREWORKS means pyrotechnic devices or large fireworks
designed primarily to produce visible or audible effects by combustion,
deflagration, or detonation. This term includes, but is not limited to,
firecrackers containing more than two grains (130 milligrams) of explosive
composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of pyrotechnic
composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as consumer fireworks. Display fireworks are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts. 1500 and 1507, and
are classified as class B explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) are not legal for retail sale but
are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the purposes
specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold at wholesale as
provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except for the following:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (3)   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A “competent display operator” is also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (A)(1) of this section shall be issued only
to a competent display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This competent display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 - Code of Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days
in advance of the date of the display. After the privilege is granted, sales,
possession, use, and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be lawful
for that purpose only. No permit granted under this division shall be
transferable. For the purposes of this division, “public display of fireworks”
shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials before a
proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistance in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The Commission of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this section. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this section.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit as
outlined in division (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present the
permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
non-profit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling
at retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks
as defined in §
93.01(B).
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B)may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the requirements of this section are met.
   (B)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, non-profit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks shall register annually with the State Fire Marshal in
accordance with KRS 227.715, and display its registration certificate in a
conspicuous location at the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) - Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition).
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
(KRS 227.715 (6) - (8)) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his agents, employees or
subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any Fire Department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacture, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “display”
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. The State Fire Marshal shall provide the owner
or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any fireworks
seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice of registered mail or
personnel service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (A) of this section shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within their
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the City Commission or
other authorized city official. The City Commission or other authorized city
official, before granting such permit may require the applicant to provide a
bond to indemnify the city and all other persons against injury or damages
which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both. (KRS 227.990(4))
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
fined not more than $500.
   (C)   Pursuant to the provisions contained in KRS 65.8808, the maximum civil
fine shall be $500 and civil fines less than maximum if not contested shall be
$300.
(Am. Ord. 9-2005, passed 11-17-05)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Depositing substances or litter on public way or median
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 DEPOSITING SUBSTANCES OR LITTER ON PUBLIC WAY OR MEDIAN.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall deposit, dump, spill or track any
brick, stone, mud, earth, sand, gravel, dirt, debris or other substance or
litter upon any public way of the city or upon any median adjacent thereto.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall be liable
to the city for the cost of removing such litter, restoration of the affected
area, as well as for any fine which a court may levy as penalty for the
violation hereof.
   (C)   In the event that any person, firm or corporation who may violate any
provision of this section does so in connection with the construction of an
improvement for which a permit is required to be issued under §
150.15, then the property owner and the general contractor, if a different
person from the person who has committed the violation, shall be liable for
penalty pursuant to this section, and notice to either the property owner or
the general contractor that a violation of this section has occurred shall
constitute full and complete notice that any permit issued thereunder may be
suspended.
(Ord. 3-1975, passed 5-5-75) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
94.02 shall be guilty of a violation and fined an amount not less than $10 nor
more than $250. Each day of a continuing violation is deemed a separate
violation.
   (C)   Pursuant to the provisions contained in KRS 65.8808, the maximum civil
fine shall be $500 and civil fines less than maximum if not contested shall be
$300.
(Ord. 3-1975, passed 5-5-75; Am. Ord. 9-2005, passed 11-17-05)
CHAPTER 95: TREES
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Creation and establishment of city tree board
   
95.03   Street tree species to be planted
   
95.04   Spacing
   
95.05   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
95.06   Distance from street corners and hydrants
   
95.07   Public tree care
   
95.08   Tree topping
   
95.09   Pruning, corner clearance
   
95.10   Designation of hazardous tree along public streets
   
95.11   Interference with City Forester
   
95.12   Arborist licensing and bond
   
95.13   Review by City Commission
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the city.
(Ord. 3-2002, passed 1-16-03)
§ 95.02 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF CITY TREE BOARD.
   There is hereby created the City Forestry Department for the city. The
Forestry Department shall be supervised by the City Forester whose function
shall be assumed and performed by the elected City Commissioner who chairs the
Committee on Beautification.
(Ord. 3-2002, passed 1-16-03)
§ 95.03 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The tree board will formulate an official street tree species list for the
city. The list of allowable species shall be broken down into categories of
small, medium and large trees. No species other than those included in this
list may be planted as street trees without written permission of the City
Forester.
(Ord. 3-2002, passed 1-16-03) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three size
classes referred to in §
95.03, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small
trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and large trees, 50 feet.
(Ord. 3-2002, passed 1-16-03) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs and curblines and sidewalks
will be in accordance with the three size classes listed in §
95.03, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following: small trees, two feet; medium trees, three feet; and large trees,
four feet.
(Ord. 3-2002, passed 1-16-03) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND HYDRANTS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 20 feet to any street corner,
measured from the point of the nearest intersection's curbs and curblines. No
street trees shall be planted closer than ten feet to any hydrant.
(Ord. 3-2002, passed 1-16-03) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove trees,
plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares, and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The City
Forester may remove or cause or order to be removed any tree or part thereof
which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious
due to fungus, insects or other pests. This section does not prohibit the
planting of street trees by adjacent property owners.
(Ord. 3-2002, passed 1-16-03)
§ 95.08 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or city
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree crown to such a degree so as to remove
the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or
other causes or certain trees under utility wires and other obstructions where
alternative pruning practices are impractical may be exempt from this chapter
at the determination of the City Forester.
(Ord. 3-2002, passed 1-16-03) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.09 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased, or dangerous
trees or broken or decayed limbs which may constitute a menace to the safety of
the public when they interfere with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light or interfere with visibility of any traffic control device
or sign.
(Ord. 3-2002, passed 1-16-03) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.10 DESIGNATION OF HAZARDOUS TREES ALONG PUBLIC STREETS.
   The City Forester will determine and identify hazardous trees which may
constitute a menace to the safety of the public when they interfere with the
visibility of any traffic control device, sign, or street light.
(Ord. 3-2002, passed 1-16-03)
§ 95.11 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY FORESTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
City Forester or any of his or her agents or servants while engaging in and
about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of
any street trees or park trees as authorized in this chapter.
(Ord. 3-2002, passed 1-16-03) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 ARBORIST LICENSING AND BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating, or removing street or park trees within the
city without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee shall
be $10 annually; however, no license shall be required of any public service
company or city employee doing such work in the pursuit of their public service
endeavors. Before any license shall be issued, each applicant shall first file
evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amount of $25,000
for bodily injury and $10,000 for property damage, indemnifying the city or any
person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as
herein described.
(Ord. 3-2002, passed 1-16-03) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.13 REVIEW BY CITY COMMISSION.
   The City Commission shall have the right to review the conduct, acts, and
decisions of the City Forester. Any person may appeal any ruling or order of
the City Forester to the City Commission who may hear the matter and make the
final decision.
(Ord. 3-2002, passed 1-16-03)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall upon
conviction or a plea of guilty be subject to a fine not to exceed $500.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions contained in KRS 65.8808, the maximum civil
fine shall be $500 and civil fines less than maximum if not contested shall be
$300.
(Ord. 3-2002, passed 1-16-03; Am. Ord. 9-2005, passed 11-17-05)
CHAPTER 96: PORTABLE STORAGE UNITS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Regulations and conditions of use
   
96.03   Permits
   
96.04   Exceptions
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TEMPORARY PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS. Shall mean and include any type of
storage structure, including but not limited to:
         DUMPSTERS. Movable containers that are used to store items or debris
pending their removal from the property, to include one-time use dumpsters.
         PORTABLE ON DEMAND STORAGE UNITS. Containers without permanently
attached wheels which are transported by truck to and from desired locations
and used primarily for storage commonly known as PODS (portable on demand
storage).
         TEMPORARY BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES. Not otherwise covered by the
ordinances of the city.
   (B)   Trash cans which hold no more than 100 gallons are not subject to this
chapter.
   (C)   This chapter does not apply to any of the above items or similar items
which are located in an enclosed area, such as an enclosed garage.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 8-18-16)
§ 96.02 REGULATIONS AND CONDITIONS OF USE.
   (A)   No temporary portable storage container as defined herein shall be
allowed to be located on or remain on any residential property in the city for
more than 60 days.
   (B)   Temporary portable storage containers shall not be placed on any
public street, easement, right-of-way, sidewalk, designated fire lane or
unpaved surface and shall not be placed in such a manner as to create road
hazards or in such a way as to impede vehicular and/or pedestrian traffic or
parking.
   (C)   Temporary portable storage containers shall be placed only on hard
surfaces such as asphalt or concrete and whenever possible, located on the lot
behind the principal structure.
   (D)   No more than one temporary portable storage container shall be placed
on any residential property at any one time.
   (E)   The temporary portable storage containers may contain no commercial
advertising other than the name, address and telephone number of the provider
of the unit.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 8-18-16)
§ 96.03 PERMITS.
   (A)   A permit shall be issued for a maximum of 30 days from the earlier of:
      (1)   The date of issuance or;
      (2)   The date on which the portable storage container was placed on the
property.
   (B)   No more than two permits shall be issued for the location of a
portable storage container on the same lot during the same calendar year if the
lot is under the same ownership.
   (C)   Permits may be obtained from the City Services Commissioner and shall
state the date of issuance and the expiration date of the permit. Application
for permit should include relevant contact information for property owners and
the company from which the unit is to be rented. Application shall be
accompanied by a drawing showing where unit is to be located.
   (D)   The permit shall be posted on or near the portable storage container
so that it can be easily read by an enforcement representative.
   (E)   The cost of a 30-day permit shall be $10.
   (F)   Persons who have portable storage containers on their property at the
time this chapter goes into effect will have ten days in which to obtain a
permit without paying a daily penalty.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 8-18-16) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   In the case of emergencies, whether man made or acts of God, which cause
substantial damage to property, reasonable allowances may be made for
extensions of time beyond that which is normally permitted by this chapter to
assist in recovery, restoration, mitigation of further damage and construction.
Extensions to be granted for no more than 30 days at a time.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 8-18-16)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Anyone found to be in violation of this chapter, or any provision thereof,
shall be subject to a civil fine, as set out by fee schedule, for each
violation, and each day for which a violation exists shall be deemed a separate
violation for which a separate fine may be assessed. A separate fine shall
apply to each day the portable storage container remains on the property after
a legally obtained permit expires. In the event that the permit is not obtained
within two days after the container is placed on the property a penalty of $10
per day will be added to the permit fee.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 8-18-16)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES FRANCHISES
CHAPTER 110: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
110.01   Imposition of license fee
   
110.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
110.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
110.04   Due date; interest
   
110.05   Written breakdown of collections
   
110.06   Fees to be paid to general revenue fund
   
110.07   Inspection of record and accounts
   
110.08   Liability of agents
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
(Ord. 1-1992, passed 3-12-92; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 3-21-19)
§ 110.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee shall be based upon the following:
   (A)   Premiums. PREMIUMS is defined as premiums actually collected by an
insurance company within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of
policies and contracts of insurance on risks located within the city and
includes premiums on new policies and contracts of insurance and on renewal
business, as well as all other classes of premiums, less all premiums returned
to policyholders.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) below, the license
fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any insurance policy or
contract of insurance shall be the following percentage of premiums on those
classes of insurance which such company is authorized to issue (the “base
fee”):
 
             Fire and Casualty                                    All Other
             Allied   Liability Vehicle Inland Marine Health Life Risks Taxed
             Perils   Only
Initial Rate 5%       5%        5%      5%            5%     5%   5%
 
      (2)   The base fee shall not apply to premiums exempted by state or
federal law.
   (C)   In addition to the base fee, an additional license fee is hereby
imposed upon each insurance company with respect to premiums, which additional
license fee shall be equal to the amount by which the credit for city LGPT is
allowable under KRS 91A.080(12), against the Metro LGPT, in excess of the base
fee under division (A) above.
   (D)   Example. The city and Metro currently impose a 5% LGPT on casualty
liability premiums. Assume Metro hereafter adopts an ordinance increasing its
countywide LGPT rate on casualty liability premiums to 10% and provides that
ordinance to the Kentucky Commissioner of Insurance on or before March 23, 2019
(100 days prior to the July 1, 2019 effective date) so that the increase in the
Metro LGPT rate will be effective July 1, 2019. Beginning July 1, 2019, the
City of Green Spring LGPT rate on casualty liability premiums will also be a
total of 10%.
(Ord. 1-1992, passed 3-12-92; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 3-21-19)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 91A.080(2))
§ 110.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance company with
respect to any policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be of the
premiums actually collected by the insurance company within each calendar
quarter on risks located within the corporate limits of the city on those
classes of business which the insurance company is authorized to transact, less
all premiums returned to policyholders.
   (B)   The license fee or tax shall also not apply to premiums:
      (1)   Received on policies of group health insurance provided for state
employees under KRS 18A.225;
      (2)   Received on policies insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees or the death of their employees caused
thereby, under the provisions of KRS Chapter 342;
      (3)   Received on health insurance policies issued to individuals;
      (4)   Received on policies issued through Kentucky Access created in
Subtitle 17B of KRS Chapter 304;
      (5)   Received on policies for high deductible health plans as defined in
26 U.S.C. 223(c)(2);
      (6)   Received on multi-state surplus lines, defined as non-admitted
insurance as provided in Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act Pub. Law No. 115-203; or
      (7)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by non-profit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
cities, counties, charter county government, urban-county government,
consolidated local government, unified local government, school districts, or
any other political subdivisions of the Commonwealth.
   (C)   No license fee or tax imposed under this section shall apply to
premiums paid to insurers of municipal bonds, leases, or other debt instruments
issued by or on behalf of a city, county, charter county government, urban-
county government, consolidated local government, special district, nonprofit
corporation, or other political subdivision of the Commonwealth. However, this
exemption shall not apply if the bonds, leases, or other debt instruments are
issued for profit or on behalf of for-profit or private organizations.
(Ord. 1-1992, passed 3-12-92; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 3-21-19)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 91A.080(3), (10))
§ 110.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter.
   (B)   Any insurance company or agent that overpays any license fee or tax to
a city shall be refunded the amount overpaid. If it is determined that an
insurance company or agent paid a license fee or tax to a city based upon
premiums collected upon lives or risks which are discovered to be located
outside the legal corporate limits of the city which was paid the license fee
or tax, the insurance company or agent shall be refunded those license fees and
taxes within 90 days’ notice to the city paid.
   (C)   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date shall bear
interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6) from the date
due until paid.
(Ord. 1-1992, passed 3-12-92; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 3-21-19)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 91A.080(8), (9))
§ 110.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31 furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 1-1992, passed 3-12-92; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 3-21-19)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 91A.080(8))
§ 110.06 FEES TO BE PAID TO GENERAL REVENUE FUND.
   The license fee or tax established by this chapter is imposed and levied for
the purpose of general revenue funds and shall be paid into the general fund of
the city.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 3-21-19)
§ 110.07 INSPECTION OF RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS.
   Every insurance company subject to license fees or tax shall maintain
records adequate to support the reports required to be filed under this
chapter. Authority is given to the city or a representative thereof to make
inspection of the books, accounts and records of the agent or insurance company
to verify the correctness of any report or breakdown of collections.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 3-21-19)
§ 110.08 LIABILITY OF AGENTS.
   This chapter applies to insurance agents and surplus lines brokers to the
extent they are responsible for collection, reporting, and payment of license
fees or taxes pursuant to KRS 91A.080.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 3-21-19)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Pursuant to KRS 91A.080, willful failure to properly collect and remit the
license fees or taxes imposed by this chapter may constitute grounds for the
revocation of the license issued to an insurance company or agent under the
provisions of KRS Chapter 304 or may result in other penalties being imposed by
the State Office of Insurance.
(Ord. 1, 2019, passed 3-21-19)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirements
   
111.03   Application; fee
   
111.04   Revocation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person within the corporate limits of the city who is present
therein for the purpose of offering for sale or selling goods, wares or
services of any description.
   PERSON. Shall include the singular and plural and shall also include
individuals, firms, corporations, partnerships or any other organization.
   SOLICITOR. Any person making a request while said person is in the corporate
limits of the city, for money or any other thing of value on the representation
that such money or thing of value will be used for charitable purposes.
(Ord. 5-1983, passed 12-8-83)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of being
a peddler or to engage in the pursuit of being a solicitor within the corporate
limits of the city without first obtaining a peddler's and solicitor's license
as herein provided for.
   (B)   Each license to be used by a peddler shall give authority for only one
individual to peddle under said license and said licensee shall not be
permitted to sell by agent or clerk on the authority of his or her license it
being a requirement hereof that each agent or clerk must procure a separate
license.
   (C)   Each peddler or solicitor while engaged in peddling or soliciting
shall carry his or her license and shall exhibit same if requested to do so by
any citizen or police officer.
   (D)   Residents of the city shall not be required to obtain permits for
solicitation for charitable or non-profit organizations provided that proper
identification issued by said organization is carried by said residents at all
times solicitations are being made.
(Ord. 5-1983, passed 12-8-83) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Every person who intends to engage in peddling and soliciting in the
city shall make application in duplicate through the City Clerk for a license
at least 30 days before the license is to become effective. Each application
shall include the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   A brief description of the nature of the business or charity and a
description of any goods to be sold;
      (3)   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of same, together with
the license number or other means of identification;
      (4)   A recent photograph not less than 2 x 2 of the applicant showing
the head and shoulders of the applicant in a distinguishing manner;
      (5)   If applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of the
applicant's principal officers and managers;
   (B)   A fee of $10 shall be paid by each applicant seeking to peddle within
the city. There shall be no charge for the issuance of a license for a
solicitor for charitable or non-profit organizations. All licenses shall expire
December 31 in the year which issued and the fee therefor shall not be
prorated.
(Ord. 5-1983, passed 12-8-83)
§ 111.04 REVOCATION.
   Any license issued hereunder may be revoked by the City Commission if a
determination is made that information on the application for license is found
to be fraudulent or if any peddler or solicitor is found by the Commission to
create a public nuisance or has violated any ordinance of the city or other
law.
(Ord. 5-1983, passed 12-8-83)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500, or placed
in jail for not less than one nor more than 30 days, or both. Each day's
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 5-1983, passed 12-8-83)
CHAPTER 112: COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES FRANCHISES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Declaration of findings
   
112.02   Title
   
112.03   Applicability
   
112.04   Preservation of authority
   
112.05   Public inspection of records
   
112.06   Indemnification
   
112.07   Compliance with laws
   
112.08   Enforcement; attorneys' fees
   
112.09   Relationship to the parties
   
112.10   Definitions
Communications Services
   
112.20   Unlawful to operate without a franchise
   
112.21   Franchises nonexclusive
   
112.22   Nature of rights granted by any franchise
   
112.23   Application required; fee
   
112.24   Standards and procedures for approval or renewal of franchises
   
112.25   Acceptance and effective date of franchise
   
112.26   Cable service and open video systems (OVS); separate franchise
required
   
112.27   Use of rights-of-way; police powers; franchisee's use subordinate
   
112.28   Emergencies
   
112.29   Term
   
112.30   Communications franchise fees
   
112.31   Holders of multiple franchises
   
112.32   Timing of payment of communications franchise fees
   
112.33   Interest on late payments and under payments
   
112.34   Fee statement
   
112.35   No accord and satisfaction
   
112.36   Description of service
   
112.37   Communications franchise fee not a tax; payment of taxes
   
112.38   Assignment of franchise
   
112.39   Forfeiture of franchise and privilege
   
112.40   Security for payment of fees
   
112.41   Special rules for governmental entities
Rights-of-Way Management and Facilities Requirements
   
112.50   Additional facilities requirements; planned infrastructure
   
112.51   Removal of facilities
   
112.52   Relocation of facilities
   
112.53   Franchisee responsible for costs
   
112.54   Insurance and bonds
   
112.55   Permits
   
112.56   Notification
   
112.57   Underground construction
   
112.58   Aerial construction
   
112.59   Standards
   
112.60   Traffic
   
112.61   Delay
   
112.62   Special exceptions
   
112.63   Inspections
   
112.64   Repair of sunken pavement over excavation
Miscellaneous
   
112.75   Administration of franchise
   
112.76   Non-enforcement by the city
   
112.77   Publication of notices
   
112.78   Liabilities and penalties
Private Communications Facilities
   
112.90   Application for license
   
112.91   Conditions of license
   
112.92   Compensation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DECLARATION OF FINDINGS.
   The city hereby declares as a legislative finding that the rights-of-way
within the city:
   (A)   Are a unique and physically limited resource;
   (B)   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in
the city;
   (C)   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
   (D)   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and public
service entities, to the enhancement of the health, welfare, and general
economic well being of the city and its citizens; and
   (E)   Should be subject to specific additional regulations imposed in a
competitively neutral and non-discretionary manner as established by this
chapter to ensure coordination of users, maximize available space, and
facilitate entry of a maximum number of providers of communications and other
services in the public interest.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.02 TITLE.
   This chapter may be referred to and cited as the "Communications Services
Franchise Ordinance".
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.03 APPLICABILITY.
   The requirements of this chapter shall apply to the full extent of the terms
herein and shall be limited in scope or application only to the extent as may
be required by applicable federal or state law, including such changes in
applicable law as may be hereinafter enacted. No provisions of this chapter
shall be disregarded pursuant to this section except on express application to
and determination by the city to such effect based on the specific factual
circumstances demonstrated. The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
incorporated in each communications franchise granted.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.04 PRESERVATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Any rights granted pursuant to this chapter and pursuant to any franchise
authorized hereunder are subject to the authority of the city to adopt and
enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
Franchisees and other holders of franchises shall be subject to and comply with
all applicable laws enacted by the city pursuant to its Home Rule or statutory
powers, to the extent not in conflict with Kentucky or federal law. Nothing in
this chapter shall be deemed to waive a right, if any, that any party may have
to seek judicial or regulatory review as to the provisions herein or as to
actions of the parties under applicable federal, state, or local law currently
in effect or as may hereinafter be amended.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.05 PUBLIC INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   Certain information required to be filed with the city pursuant to this
chapter is subject to inspection and copying by the public pursuant to the
provisions of the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 et seq.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.06 INDEMNIFICATION.
   As a condition of use of the rights-of-way, each franchisee at its sole cost
and expense, shall indemnify, protect, defend (with counsel acceptable to the
city) and hold harmless the city, its elected officials, officers, employees,
and agents, from and against any and all claims, demands, losses, damages,
liabilities, fines, charges, penalties, administrative and judicial proceedings
and orders, judgments, remedial actions of any kind, and all costs and expenses
of any kind, including, without limitation, reasonable attorney's fees and
costs of defense arising, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, out of
or in relation to the city's award of the franchise, the rights granted to the
franchisee, or the activities performed, or failed to be performed, by such
franchisee under the franchise or use of the rights-of-way, except to the
extent such acts or use arise from or are caused by the negligence or willful
misconduct of the city, its elected officials, officers, or employees. This
indemnification shall survive the expiration or termination of any franchise or
use of the rights-of-way.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.07 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   In performing activities and exercising rights and obligations under any
franchise, each franchisee and other holder of a franchise shall comply with
all applicable federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulations and
policies, including, but not limited to, all laws, ordinances, regulations and
policies relating to construction and use of public property.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT; ATTORNEYS' FEES.
   The city shall be entitled to enforce this chapter and any franchise through
all remedies lawfully available, and each franchisee shall pay the city its
costs of enforcement, including but not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees,
in the event that franchisee is determined judicially to have violated the
terms of this chapter or any franchise.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.09 RELATIONSHIP TO THE PARTIES.
   Under no circumstances shall any franchise authorized by this chapter be
construed to create any relationship of agency, partnership, joint venture, or
employment between the parties.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the singular number include
the plural number, and words in the plural number include the singular. The
words "shall" and "will" are mandatory, and "may" is permissive. Words not
defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   AFFILIATE. As to any person, each person, directly or indirectly,
controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such person.
   ANTENNA. Any device that transmits or receives signals. Such signals include
but are not limited to radio and infrared waves for voice, data or video
communications purposes.
   CABLE FRANCHISE. The rights and obligations extended by the city to a person
to own, lease, construct, maintain, or operate a cable system in the rights-of-
way within the franchise area for the purpose of providing cable services.
   CABLE INTERNET SERVICES. The provision by a person of access to the internet
or any intranet to customers over a cable system and shall include the
provision of incidental services that are required by law to be treated under
the same regulation as such direct access service. The city shall treat cable
internet services as a cable service unless it is definitively determined under
applicable law that cable internet service is not a cable service, in which
case any person providing or wishing to provide cable internet services shall
obtain a separate communications franchise from the city. All prior payments to
the city attributable to cable internet service under a cable franchise shall
be irrefutably deemed to be lawful compensation, irrespective of any rates or
terms required for any future use under any new communications franchise.
   CABLE SERVICES. Shall have the same meaning as is ascribed to the term
"Cable Service" at 47 U.S.C. 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM. Shall have the same meaning as is ascribed to the term "Cable
System" at 47 U.S.C. 522(7).
   CITY. The City of Green Spring, Kentucky.
   COMMUNICATIONS. The transmission via the facilities, in whole or in part,
between or among points specified by the user, of information of the user's
choosing (e.g., data, video, voice), without change in the form or content of
the information as sent and received, regardless of the statutory or regulatory
scheme to which such transmissions may be subject.
   COMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE. A franchise for use of the rights-of-way for
communications services as authorized herein and executed by the city and
franchisee.
   COMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE FEE. The fee imposed by the city on franchisee for
use of the rights-of-way pursuant to a communications franchise granted under
this chapter.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The transmission via facilities, in whole or in
part, of any writings, signs, signals, pictures, sounds or other forms of
intelligence through wire, wireless or other means, including, but not limited
to, any "telecommunications service," "enhanced service," "information
service," or "internet service," as such terms are now, or may in the future
be, defined under federal law, and including all instrumentality, facilities,
conduit, apparatus ("communications facilities"), and services (among other
things, the receipt, forwarding, and delivery of telecommunications) incidental
to or designed to directly or indirectly facilitate or accept such
transmission. This term does not include cable service or open video system
service, but cable services and open video system service shall be subject to
separate franchising requirements and applications. This term does not include
over-the-air radio or television broadcasts to the public at large licensed by
the FCC or any successor thereto.
   FACILITIES. Any portion of a system located in, along, over, upon, under, or
through the rights-of-way.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States of America
or any successor thereto.
   FRANCHISE. A communications franchise as defined herein or any other
franchise granted by the city pursuant to Sections 163 and 164 of the Kentucky
Constitution or by the Kentucky General Assembly prior to the adoption of
Sections 163 and 164 of the Kentucky Constitution which permits the use of the
rights-of-way for communications services. Use of this definition in this
chapter is not intended to include any license or permit for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the city, as may be required by
any other ordinance or laws of the city or the state.
   FRANCHISE AREA. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable franchise,
means the entire area of the city as it is now constituted or may in the future
be constituted, except that such area shall not include any area within another
municipality within the city.
   FRANCHISEE. The party subject to a communications franchise, or its
successors, assigns, or transferees.
   LESSEE. A person who provides communications services within the city solely
by leasing facilities and who has no control over what, where or how any
facilities are erected, installed, maintained, operated, repaired, removed,
restored or otherwise used.
   OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM (OVS) SERVICE. Shall have the same meaning as is ascribed
to the term at 47 U.S.C. 573.
   PRIVATE COMMUNICATION SYSTEM. A system used by a person solely in connection
with such person's business, provided that such person does not use, or permit
the use of, such system to provide communications services to any other person.
   PRIVATE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OWNER. A person that owns or leases a private
communications system.
   RENEWAL. A new communications franchise granted to an existing franchisee.
   RESELLER SERVICE PROVIDER. A person who provides communications services
within the city solely by reselling communications services and who has no
control over what, where or how any facilities are erected, installed,
maintained, operated, repaired, removed, restored or otherwise used.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The surface and space on, above and below every street,
alley, road, highway, lane or other public right-of-way dedicated or commonly
used now or hereafter for utility purposes and facilities thereon, including,
but not limited to, overhead lighting facilities. Rights-of-way shall not
include public property owned or leased by the city and not intended for
rights-of-way use, including, but not limited to, parks or public works
facilities.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   SYSTEM. Any and all equipment, structures, materials or tangible components
located in the rights-of-way and used to provide communications services,
including without limitation all plant (whether inside or outside), cabinets,
surface location markers, fiber strands, electronic equipment, amplification
equipment, optic equipment, transmission and distribution structures, antennae,
lines, pipes, mains, conduit, ducts, regenerators, repeaters, vaults,
pedestals, manholes, handholds, pull boxes, splice closures, wires, cables,
towers, wave guides, and anything else designed and constructed for the purpose
of producing, receiving, amplifying or distributing communications services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 coded at Title 47
of the United States Code.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
§ 112.20 UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE WITHOUT A FRANCHISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, install, maintain, operate,
repair, replace, remove or restore communications facilities or to provide
communications services by use of facilities in the rights-of-way in the city
without a valid, unexpired franchise from the city, unless otherwise
specifically authorized under applicable federal or state law, or otherwise
provided by ordinance. Unless otherwise provided hereinafter by this chapter,
reseller service providers and lessees shall not be required to obtain a
franchise. Private communication systems shall not require a franchise, but
shall be licensed pursuant to §§
112.90 through
112.92. A cable operator, or an affiliate thereof, that provides cable services
as herein defined under a valid cable franchise granted by the city, shall not
be required to obtain a communications franchise hereunder; provided, however,
if a cable operator, or an affiliate thereof, extends facilities in the right-
of-way solely for the provision of telecommunications services than it shall
pay the linear per foot fee as set forth in this subchapter, if no revenue for
the computation of cable franchise fees are received from such extended
facilities.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.21 FRANCHISES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The authority granted by the city in any franchise shall be for the
nonexclusive use of the rights-of-way. The city specifically reserves the right
to grant, at any time, such additional franchises or other rights to use the
rights-of-way for any purpose to any other person, including itself, as it
deems appropriate, subject to all applicable laws.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.22 NATURE OF RIGHTS GRANTED BY ANY FRANCHISE.
   Franchises shall not convey title, equitable or legal, in the rights-of-way,
and shall give only the right to occupy rights-of-way, for the purposes and for
the period stated in this chapter and as may be further limited by the
franchise. No franchise may excuse franchisee from obtaining appropriate access
or attachment agreements before locating its facilities on another person's
facilities. All franchises shall be deemed to incorporate and be limited by the
provisions of this chapter and shall create rights inuring solely to the
benefit of the franchisee.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.23 APPLICATION REQUIRED; FEE.
   Applications for an original communications franchise granted hereunder
shall be filed with the city with ten additional copies. All applications
received by the city from the applicants will become the sole
property of the city. Applicants shall submit all requested information as
provided by the terms of this chapter. The following information must be
complete and verified as true by the applicant:
   (A)   Filing fee. Applications shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
application fee of $1,000 payable to the city. Said application fee shall
defray in whole or part the city's costs to process any application filed under
this chapter and negotiate, award and administer any franchise. Said
application fee shall not be considered communications franchise fee payments.
   (B)   Name and address of applicant. The applicant's name, address, e-mail
address and telephone and facsimile numbers; date of application and signature
of applicant or appropriate corporate officer(s); the name, address and e-mail
address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of a local representative who
shall be available at all times; and information regarding how to contact the
local representative in an emergency.
   (C)   Description of proposed system. A description of the applicant's
proposed system design.
   (D)   Services. A statement setting forth a description of all the types of
services proposed.
   (E)   Applicant organization. The applicant shall be a corporation or
limited liability company authorized to do business in the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, as certified by the Secretary of State. Applicant must fully disclose
the ownership of the facilities to be used in rendering the service.
   (F)   Technical description. Applicant shall provide a technical description
of the type of system proposed by the applicant and applicant's plan for the
installation of the system. The following information shall be included in the
application:
      (1)   If the applicant is proposing an underground installation in
existing ducts or conduits within the rights-of-way, information in sufficient
detail to identify the location of the existing ducts or conduits to be
occupied.
      (2)   If applicant is proposing an underground installation within new
ducts or conduits to be constructed within the rights-of-way:
         (a)   The location, depth, size and quantity of proposed new ducts or
conduits;
         (b)   A preliminary installation schedule and completion date.
   (G)   Engineering statement. A statement from the applicant's senior
technical staff member, or consultant, advising that the applicant's planned
system and operations thereof would meet all the requirements set forth herein.
   (H)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   Supplementary, additional or other information that the applicant
deems reasonable for consideration may be submitted at the same time as its
application but must be separately bound and submitted with the above number of
copies. The city may, at its discretion, consider such additional information
as part of the application.
      (2)   Applications may be modified at any time prior to the opening of
the applications, provided that any modifications must be duly executed in the
manner that the applicant's application must be executed.
      (3)   A copy of the applicant's certificate of authority from the Public
Service Commission ("PSC") where the applicant is lawfully required to have
such certificate from the PSC.
      (4)   A copy of the applicant's certificate of authority from the FCC
where the applicant is lawfully required to have such certificate from the FCC.
      (5)   A copy of all insurance policies and certificates required under
this chapter.
      (6)   A statement signed by the applicant that the applicant agrees to be
bound by all provisions of the franchise and agrees to obtain all applicable
permits and authorizations prior to constructing, installing, or operating a
system in the right-of-way.
      (7)   The information provided by applicant shall be certified as true
and correct and applicant shall be responsible to certify to the city any
material changes to the information provided in the completed application
during the term of any franchise.
   (I)   Supplementation to applications. The city reserves the right to
require such supplementary, additional or other information that it deems
reasonably necessary for its determinations.
   (J)   The city's rights reserved. The city reserves the right to waive all
formalities and/or technicalities where the best interest of the city may be
served.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.24 STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL OR RENEWAL OF FRANCHISES. 
   Franchises shall be granted in accordance with Kentucky Constitution
Sections 163 and 164. The city shall authorize franchises or renewals to any
eligible franchisee for the right and privilege to construct, own, operate,
repair, replace and maintain facilities in, through and along the city's
rights-of-way for the purposes of providing communications services on a
nonexclusive basis within the city, subject, however, to the standards, terms
and conditions herein set forth within this chapter, which shall be deemed
incorporated therein, and any special conditions as may be provided for in the
franchise. All franchisees shall be required to obtain and maintain any
necessary and lawful permit, license certification, grant, registration or any
other authorization required by any appropriate governmental entity, including,
but not limited to, the city, the FCC and the Kentucky Public Service
Commission. The city may establish standard franchises setting forth the
minimum requirements for all franchisees.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.25 ACCEPTANCE AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF FRANCHISE.
   Any franchise granted hereunder, together with the rights, privileges and
authority granted thereby, shall take effect and be in force from and after the
effective date of a resolution granting a franchise hereunder, provided that on
or before said date franchisee shall:
   (A)   Enter into and execute such contracts and documents as required by the
city that are consistent with the terms and provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   File certificates of insurance as set forth in this chapter;
   (C)   File such bond or bonds as required in this chapter; and
   (D)   Advise the Mayor in writing of franchisee's address for mail and
official notifications from the city.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.26 CABLE SERVICE AND OPEN VIDEO SYSTEMS (OVS); SEPARATE FRANCHISE
REQUIRED.
   A communications franchise shall not permit a franchisee to provide cable
services as a cable operator (as defined by 47 U.S.C. 522(5)) within the city.
Upon a franchisee's request for a franchise to provide cable services as a
cable operator (as defined by 47 U.S.C. 522(5)) within the city, the city shall
timely negotiate such cable franchise in good faith with the franchisee. A
communications franchise shall also not permit a franchisee to operate an open
video system. A person may operate an open video system only if that person
obtains a separate franchise permitting same, and such person remits the
maximum fees permitted by 47 U.S.C. 573(c)(2)(B) and where such person
otherwise complies with FCC regulations promulgated pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 573.
Absent such applicable separate franchise from the city, a franchisee shall be
prohibited from offering OVS service and any such service shall be considered a
breach of its franchise.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.27 USE OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY; POLICE POWERS; FRANCHISEE'S USE SUBORDINATE.
   A franchisee shall construct and maintain its facilities in accordance with
all applicable federal, state and local laws, including all permit
requirements, and fee payments, and all other city codes and ordinances in
effect as of the date of the award of its franchise or thereafter adopted to
the extent not in contravention of state or federal law. The grant of a
franchise does not in any way affect the continuing authority of the city
through the proper exercise of its Home Rule or statutory powers to adopt and
enforce ordinances necessary to provide for the health, safety and welfare of
the public. The city makes no express or implied representation or warranty
regarding its rights to authorize the installation or construction of
facilities on any particular segment of rights-of-way. The burden and
responsibility for making all such determinations in advance of construction or
installation shall be entirely upon the franchisee. The use of the rights-of-
way authorized by any franchise shall in all matters be subordinate to the
city's use and rights therein. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing:
   (A)   All rights and privileges granted herein are subject to the police
powers of the city and its rights under applicable laws and regulations to
regulate the construction, operation, and maintenance of franchisee's system,
including, but not limited to, the right to adopt and enforce additional
ordinances and regulations as the city shall find necessary in the exercise of
its police powers, the right to adopt and enforce applicable zoning, building,
permitting and safety ordinances and regulations, the right to adopt and
enforce regulations relating to equal employment opportunities and the right to
adopt and enforce ordinances and regulations containing rights-of-way,
communications, and utility standards.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to exercise its police powers,
notwithstanding anything in this chapter and in any franchise to the contrary.
Any conflict between the provisions of this chapter or a franchise and any
other present or future lawful exercise of the city's police powers shall be
resolved in favor of the latter.
   (C)   Franchisee shall not be excused from complying with any of the
requirements of this chapter or any subsequently adopted amendments to this
chapter, by any failure of the city on any one or more occasions to seek, or
insist upon, compliance with such requirements or provisions.
   (D)   If federal or state law alter the required services, fees, costs,
conditions or standards upon which the communications system is to operate, the
city shall have the right to amend this chapter to make it consistent with the
modified federal or state laws.
   (E)   Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to any
present and future legislation or resolution, which may be enacted by the city.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.28 EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Franchisee shall assign a management level person to coordinate with,
and assist the city's Emergency Management Agency, in the development of
emergency plans.
   (B)   If at any time, in case of fire or disaster in the city, it shall
become necessary in the reasonable judgment of the city, to cut or move any
facilities, such cutting or moving may be done and any repairs rendered
necessary thereby shall be made by franchisee, at its sole expense.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.29 TERM.
   A franchise shall be effective for a term of ten years from its effective
date.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.30 COMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE FEES.
   Franchisee shall pay to the city as annual compensation for the use of the
rights-of-way a communications franchise fee equal to:
   (A)   One hundred dollars per antenna in the rights-of-way; plus
   (B)   A fee equal to the lesser of $10,000 or the sum of the following:
      (1)   For each single cable, wire, fiber, conduit or other linear
facility, or bundle of the same up to two inches in diameter placed above-
ground, $1 per foot of rights-of-way on which it is placed or over which it is
suspended; plus
      (2)   For each bundle of cable, wire, fiber, conduit or other linear
facility greater than two inches in diameter placed above ground, $.50 per foot
of rights-of-way on which it is placed or over which it is suspended; plus
      (3)   For each single cable, wire, fiber, conduit or other linear
facility, or aggregate of the same placed below-ground contemporaneously, $.50
per foot of rights-of-way used to accommodate the same.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.31 HOLDERS OF MULTIPLE FRANCHISES.
   Persons holding a communications franchise and also a cable franchise shall
fairly and accurately apportion and attribute revenues received to the various
services offered.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.32 TIMING OF PAYMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE FEES.
   Unless otherwise agreed to in writing, all communications franchise fees
shall be due and payable on a quarterly basis and payment shall be made on or
before the date which is 30 calendar days after the last day of the calendar
quarter for which the payment applies (the "due date"); provided, however, that
in the event that a franchisee ceases to provide service for any reason
(including as a result of a transfer), such franchisee shall make a final
payment of any amounts owed to the city on or before the date which is 30
calendar days after the date on which its operations in the city cease (which
shall be deemed a "due date" for purposes of this subchapter).
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.33 INTEREST ON LATE PAYMENTS AND UNDER PAYMENTS.
   If any communications franchise fee, or any portion thereof, is not received
by the city on or before the due date, interest thereon shall accrue from the
due date until received, at the rate of one and one-half percent per month,
unless such other maximum rate is established by applicable law.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.34 FEE STATEMENT.
   Each communications franchise fee payment shall be accompanied by a
statement (a "fee statement") showing the manner in which the communications
franchise fee was calculated. Within 90 calendar days following the end of the
calendar year, each franchisee shall submit a statement, certified as true,
setting forth the amount of linear foot and antennae within the facilities
provided, however, that in the event that a franchisee ceases to provide
service for any reason (including as a result of a transfer), such franchisee
shall provide such a statement within 30 calendar days after the date on which
its operations in the city cease.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.35 NO ACCORD AND SATISFACTION.
   No acceptance by the city of any communications franchise fee or any other
payment shall be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the
correct amount, nor shall acceptance of any communications franchise fee or any
other payment be construed as a release of any claim of the city.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.36 DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE.
   During the term of the franchise, franchisee shall provide the city with a
description of any material changes to the types of communications services
offered within the city during the prior year. Any individual service or item
for which the franchisee has a separate charge shall be considered a separate
service.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.37 COMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE FEE NOT A TAX; PAYMENT OF TAXES.
   The communications franchise fee is compensation for the use of the rights-
of-way and shall in no way be deemed a tax of any kind. The communications
franchise fees required herein shall be in addition to, not in lieu of: all
taxes, charges, assessments, licenses, fees and impositions otherwise
applicable that are or may be imposed by the city. A franchisee shall be fully
responsible for the payment of all applicable taxes.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.38 ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE.
   A franchisee shall provide the city with written notice of any transfer of
the franchise. A franchisee shall not sell, assign, sublet, dispose of or
otherwise transfer a franchise (or any of the rights or privileges granted by
such franchise) to another entity, without the prior written consent of the
city. The city's consent to such a transfer shall not be withheld if the entity
would have qualified for an original franchise had it applied and if the entity
demonstrates it has the same insurance policies and bonds in place as is
required of the original franchisee. Nothing in any approval by the city of any
transfer pursuant to this section shall be construed to waive, release or
delegate any rights or powers of the city to hold the original franchisee
liable for any violation of its franchise.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.39 FORFEITURE OF FRANCHISE AND PRIVILEGE.
   In case of failure on the part of a franchisee, its successors and assigns,
to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or its franchise, or if
the franchisee, its successors and assigns, should do or cause to be done any
act or thing prohibited by or in violation of this chapter or the terms of its
franchise, the franchisee, its successors and assigns, shall forfeit all rights
and privileges permitted by this chapter and its franchise, and all rights
hereunder shall cease, terminate and become null and void, provided that said
forfeiture shall not take effect until the city shall carry out the following
proceedings. Before the city declares the forfeiture or revocation of a
franchise, it shall first serve a written notice upon the franchisee, setting
forth in detail the neglect or failure complained of, and the company shall
have 30 days thereafter, or such other reasonable period established by the
city, in which to cure the default by complying with the conditions of its
franchise and fully remedying any default or violation. If at the end of such
30 day or other reasonable period, the city determines that the conditions have
not been complied with, the city shall take action by an affirmative vote of a
majority of the Council present at the meeting and voting, to terminate the
franchise, setting out the grounds upon which the franchise is to be forfeited
or revoked. Nothing herein shall prevent the city from invoking any other
remedy available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.40 SECURITY FOR PAYMENT OF FEES.
   Every franchisee shall provide to the city an irrevocable letter of credit
in the amount of $10,000 or one-half of the annual franchise fee owed,
whichever is less, to secure the payment of the communications franchise fee
for the first two years of the franchise. After which, if there has been no
default in paying the franchise fee nor any late payment of the franchise fee,
the letter of credit shall be released.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.41 SPECIAL RULES FOR GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES.
   Nothing herein requires the city to apply the provisions of this chapter to
a governmental entity if the city determines that it is not in the public
interest to do so, and nothing in this chapter shall be read to require a
governmental entity to comply with this chapter where the city cannot enforce
the chapter against such entity as a matter of law. The city is authorized to
enter into agreements with other governmental agencies to facilitate the city's
use and management of the rights-of-way, and such agreements shall be
enforceable according to their respective terms and notwithstanding any
provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
RIGHTS-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT AND FACILITIES REQUIREMENTS
§ 112.50 ADDITIONAL FACILITIES REQUIREMENTS; PLANNED INFRASTRUCTURE.
   When a franchisee installs any new underground facilities, the franchisee
shall, unless waived by the city, simultaneously install conduit provided by
the city ("the city conduit"). The city shall reimburse franchisee for any
marginal or additional costs incurred by franchisee in connection with
installation of the city conduit. The city conduit shall be installed in
accordance with the city specifications and consistent with sound engineering
practice. No communications franchise fee shall apply to any of the city
conduit.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.51 REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   Upon expiration of a franchise, whether by lapse of time, by agreement
between the franchisee and the city, or by forfeiture thereof, the franchisee
shall remove, at its sole cost, from the rights-of-way any and all of its
facilities that are the subject of such franchise within a reasonable time
after such expiration, not to exceed 90 days, and, it shall be the duty of the
franchisee immediately upon such removal to restore the rights-of-way from
which the facilities are removed to as good condition as the same were before
the removal was effected and as required by the city. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the city may allow facilities to be left in place when the city
determines in its sole discretion that it is not practical or desirable to
require removal.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 112.52 RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   Whenever the city shall in its exercise of the public interest request of
the franchisee the relocation or reinstallation of any of its facilities, the
franchisee shall forthwith remove, relocate, or reinstall any such property as
may be reasonably necessary to meet the request and the cost of such
relocation, removal, or reinstallation of the facilities shall be the exclusive
obligation of such franchisee. A franchisee shall, upon request of any other
person requesting relocation of facilities and holding a validly issued
building or moving permit of the city, temporarily raise, lower, or relocate
its wires or other facilities as may be required for the person to exercise the
rights under the permit within 48 hours prior to the date upon which said
person intends to exercise its rights under said permit; provided, however,
that the franchisee may require such permit holder to make payment in advance
for any expenses incurred by said franchisee pursuant to such person's request.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.53 FRANCHISEE RESPONSIBLE FOR COSTS.
   A franchisee shall be responsible for all reasonable costs incurred by the
city that are directly associated with the franchisee's erecting, installing,
maintaining, operating, repairing, replacing, removing or restoring its
facilities in the rights-of-way. A franchisee shall be responsible for its own
costs incurred in removing or relocating its facilities when required by the
city due to the city requirements relating to maintenance and use of the
rights-of-way for the city's purposes.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.54 INSURANCE AND BONDS.
   During the term of any franchise, a franchisee shall obtain and maintain at
its sole expense, all insurance and bonds required by this chapter. Nothing
contained in this chapter shall limit a franchisee's liability to the city to
the limits of insurance certified or carried.
   (A)   All persons submitting an application for a franchise in accordance
herewith shall file with their applications performance bonds with a surety
company or trust company or companies as surety or sureties solely for the
protection of the city in an amount determined by the city to be reasonable for
the proposed scope of the system to be constructed. The determination of the
amount of the performance bond required shall be made in a nondiscriminatory
manner. Said performance bond shall provide for the faithful performance of
construction and installation of franchise's system. Two years after
demonstration of the completion of the construction of the system by franchisee
to the city, the city shall release the performance bond.
   (B)   Said performance bond shall indemnify the city in its own right and as
trustee, from any damages or losses arising out of the failure of franchisee to
faithfully perform and satisfactorily complete construction of the system in
accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   The failure of franchisee to comply with its obligations under this
chapter or the franchise as determined by the city shall entitle the city to
draw against said performance bond.
   (D)   The rights reserved to the city with respect to the performance bonds
required hereunder are in addition to all other rights of the city, whether
reserved by this chapter or authorized by law, and no action, proceeding or
exercise of a right with respect to such performance bond shall affect any
other rights the city may have.
   (E)   The performance bonds required hereunder shall not expire or be
materially altered without 30 days written notice and without securing and
delivering to the city a substitute, renewal and replacement bond in
conformance with this chapter. In the event the city does draw monies against
the performance bonds required hereunder, within ten days thereafter,
franchisee shall pay such funds to the bonding company as necessary to bring
said performance bonds back to the applicable principal, where it shall
continue to be maintained. The performance bonds required hereunder shall
contain the following endorsements:
      "It is hereby understood and agreed that this performance bond may not be
reduced, altered or canceled by Franchisee or the bonding company without
thirty (30) days written notice, by certified mail, to the City."
   (F)   Immediately upon the effective date of the resolution granting a
franchise under this chapter, franchisee shall file with the city the following
liability insurance policies issued by a company authorized to do business in
the Commonwealth:
      (1)   General liability: $1,000,000 each occurrence, $5,000,000
aggregate, against bodily injury, death, or property damage.
      (2)   Automobile insurance: $1,000,000 each occurrence, and aggregate
against bodily injury, death, or property damage for any of franchisee's owned
or leased motor vehicles used in the construction/ installation of any lines,
facilities or equipment authorized by the franchise.
      (3)   Worker's compensation: The amount required by Kentucky Revised
Statutes.
   (G)   Franchisee shall maintain on file with the city a certified copy of
the insurance policy(s) specifically endorsed to include all liability assumed
by franchisee hereunder and a certificate of insurance certifying the coverage
required under this chapter, which certificate shall be subject to the approval
of the city as to the adequacy of the certificate and of the insurance
certified under the requirements of this chapter. Such policy(s) and
certificate shall be identified on their face by the name of franchisee, and
shall be submitted to the city, in accordance with the terms and conditions of
this chapter. Failure to maintain adequate insurance as required under this
chapter shall be deemed a breach of the franchise.
   (H)   Franchisee shall maintain public liability, property damage and other
insurance required by this chapter that protects franchisee and the city, its
officers, agents, employees and appointed and elected officials from any and
all claims for damages or personal injury including death, demands, actions,
and suits brought against any of them arising from operations under the
franchise or in connection therewith. This insurance coverage constitutes a
minimum requirement and shall in no way be deemed to lessen, limit or define
the liability of franchisee, related entities, its successors or assigns, under
the terms of the franchise.
   (I)   The city reserves the right to make increases in the amount of
insurance coverage referred to in this section at any time.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.55 PERMITS.
   Prior to performing any construction or installation work in the public
rights-of-way, franchisee shall apply to the city for a permit, and shall
include descriptive information about the specific location of any lines,
facilities, boxes, or related equipment. All terms and conditions of the permit
application shall apply and be adhered to.
   (A)   Franchisee shall furnish detailed plans of the work to be done within
the public rights-of-way and provide other such information as required by the
city.
   (B)   Franchisee shall coordinate any construction work within the public
rights-of-way with the city and shall begin construction work only after
approval of the city.
   (C)   All permits issued by the city shall be conspicuously displayed at all
times at the indicated work site and shall be available for inspection by the
city personnel.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.56 NOTIFICATION.
   Franchisee shall notify the city, in writing, at least 15 days prior to
construction. Such written notification shall contain the location of the
construction, the starting date and the estimated completion date.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.57 UNDERGROUND CONSTRUCTION.
   Except as provided in §
112.58, all of franchisee's facilities shall be installed underground and all
street crossings installation shall be made by trenchless technology.
   (A)   Franchisee shall register any and all underground line locations with
the local "Before You Dig" or "BUD" office for tracking specific underground
line locations.
   (B)   All backfilling and replacement of pavement shall be done by
franchisee:
      (1)   In accordance with the city requirements and all restoration work
shall be completed to the same or better condition than found; and
      (2)   To the satisfaction of the city, and, if not acceptable, may be
completed by the city at franchisee's expense.
   (C)   At any time franchisee disturbs the yard, residence, or other real or
personal property in the city, franchisee shall ensure that the yard,
residence, or other personal property is returned, replaced, and/or restored to
a condition that is sufficiently comparable to the condition that existed prior
to the commencement of the work.
   (D)   The costs associated with both the disturbance and the return,
replacement, and/or restoration shall be borne by franchisee.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.58 AERIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   Aerial construction of facilities must be specifically authorized by the
city prior to construction and located to minimize interference with the other
uses of the rights-of-way and other public properties, and interference with
the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners whose property adjoins
any of the rights-of-way and other public properties. The decision to authorize
above ground construction shall be applied in a non-discriminatory manner. If
other franchisees have facilities above ground and there is capacity available,
above ground installations shall be permitted until such time as all
franchisees are required to relocate underground. Aerial facilities shall be
moved underground at franchisee's own cost upon request from the city or when
other users of the same rights-of-way convert to underground facilities.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.59 STANDARDS.
   Any work required or performed pursuant to this chapter shall be done in
accordance with federal, state and local law, and the National Electric Code.
   (A)   In the event that franchisee leases space on the poles or in the
conduits of an electric or other utility, franchisee shall abide by the
construction and other requirements of said utility, and the granting of a
communications franchise by the city shall not be construed or interpreted in
any way to alleviate franchisee's responsibilities and obligations to the pole
or conduit owner.
   (B)   Franchisee, its contractors, sub-subcontractors and anyone directly or
indirectly employed by franchisee, shall conduct such operations so as to
promote and preserve the public safety and general welfare of the citizens of
the city.
   (C)   All construction, installation or maintenance by franchisee shall be
completed with diligence and with respect to all property, contracts, persons,
rights and the interests and rights of the public.
   (D)   During any phase of construction, installation, maintenance, and
repair of the system, franchisee shall use materials of good and durable
quality and all such work shall be performed in a safe, thorough, and reliable
manner.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.60 TRAFFIC.
   Franchisee's work in the rights-of-way shall be accomplished with a minimum
of disruption and interference to the free flow of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic on the public rights-of-way or public land.
   (A)   Franchisee shall maintain lanes of vehicular traffic in each direction
at all times during construction, installation or maintenance activity.
   (B)   Traffic control devices to protect and control pedestrian and
vehicular traffic in any construction, maintenance or installation areas may be
prescribed by the city in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.61 DELAY.
   The city-required improvements to the city rights-of-way shall not be
delayed by work authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.62 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   The city may grant a special exception to the requirements of this chapter
if a franchisee, upon application, demonstrates with written evidence that:
   (A)   The exception will not create any threat to the public health, safety
or welfare;
   (B)   Franchisee demonstrates that the increased economic burden and the
potential adverse impact on franchisee's construction schedule resulting from
the strict enforcement of the requirement actually or effectively prohibits the
ability of franchisee to provide communications services in the city; and
   (C)   Franchisee demonstrates that the requirement unreasonably
discriminates against franchisee in favor of another person.
   (D)   Any special exceptions shall be granted in a non-discriminatory
manner.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.63 INSPECTIONS.
   All construction, installation and operation of franchisee's system in the
rights-of-way are subject to inspection by the city.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.64 REPAIR OF SUNKEN PAVEMENT OVER EXCAVATION.
   In case the pavement or the surface of the rights-of-way over any excavation
should become depressed or broken at any time within five years after the
excavation has been completed and before resurfacing of the rights-of-way,
natural wear of the surface excepted, franchisee shall, upon written notice
from the city, immediately proceed to inspect the depressed or broken area over
the excavation to ascertain the cause of the failure. Franchisee shall make
repairs to the installation or backfill and have the pavement restored as
specified by the city, within such time period as may be specified by the city.
If the pavement is not restored as specified by the city within the time period
specified by the city, and unless delayed by a strike or conditions beyond
franchisee's control, the city may cause the work to be done after giving
franchisee 24 hours final notice. The cost thereof, including, but not limited
to, any inspection costs and administrative overhead incurred by the city,
shall be assessed against franchisee.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 112.75 ADMINISTRATION OF FRANCHISE.
   The city shall be responsible for the continued administration of this
chapter and any franchises granted hereunder.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.76 NON-ENFORCEMENT BY THE CITY.
   A franchisee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter or its applicable franchise by reason of any
failure of the city to enforce prompt compliance.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.77 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   A franchisee shall be responsible for all costs of publication that may be
required with respect to its franchise or any amendments or renewals thereto.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.78 LIABILITIES AND PENALTIES.
   Except as expressly stated in this chapter, the express or implied repeal or
amendment by this chapter of any other ordinance or part thereof shall not
affect any liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or proceedings begun prior
to the effective date of this chapter. Those liabilities and penalties are
continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or
amended ordinance as if this chapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
PRIVATE COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
§ 112.90 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   A person wishing to erect, install, maintain, operate, repair, replace,
remove or restore a private communications system in the rights-of-way must
obtain a license therefor from the city. Such license shall only authorize
placement of the private communications system in a specific portion of the
rights-of-way for a limited period of time and for a specific purpose in
connection with the person's
business and shall not permit the provision of communications service to any
other person. Such person shall submit an application to the city on such form
as may be developed by the city, accompanied by such application fee as may be
determined by the city.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.91 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   Any license shall be subject to such conditions as the city may from time to
time establish, shall be expressly subordinate to the use of the rights-of-way
by the city and franchisees, and shall otherwise conform to the requirements of
this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
§ 112.92 COMPENSATION.
   A private communications system owner shall pay a fee established by the
city from time to time to reflect the fair market value of the property used.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-19-05)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130. OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Discharging firearms or similar devices
   
130.02   Use of certain structures and vehicles as residences prohibited
   
130.03   Placement of signs prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISCHARGING FIREARMS OR SIMILAR DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge a firearm, BB gun, air rifle, air pistol or
similar device within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   This section shall not apply:
      (1)   To a peace officer when acting in his or her capacity as a peace
officer;
      (2)   To a person acting in defense of persons or property;
      (3)   Within the confines of a licensed shooting range; or
      (4)   When specifically authorized by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 3-1977, passed 10-6-77; Am. Ord. 5-1984, passed 5-18-84) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 USE OF CERTAIN STRUCTURES AND VEHICLES AS RESIDENCES PROHIBITED.
   No trailer, basement, tent, shack, garage, outbuilding placed or erected
within the city limits at any time or camping trailer or motor vehicle shall be
used as a residence, temporarily or permanently.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 2-19-98) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 PLACEMENT OF SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, no temporary sign, including but
not limited to real estate signs and political signs shall be erected or placed
in or upon the rights-of-way or common areas in the
city. Provided, however, that directional signs advertising an open house for
sales may be erected or placed on the day the house is open not more than 30
minutes before the open house even begins, and said signs shall be removed not
later than 30 minutes after the conclusion of the open house event.
   (B)   Any and all signs in violation of this section will be confiscated and
disposed of forthwith.
   (C)   Any person, firm or entity violating this section shall be fined not
less than $20 nor more than $100. Each day's violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 4-2000, passed 10-19-00)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating §
130.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $10
nor more than $500, or imprisoned not less than one nor more than ten days, or
both.
(Ord. 3-1977, passed 10-6-77)
   (B)   Violation of §
130.02 shall be punishable by fine of not more than $500 for each offense. Each
day's continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Pursuant to the provisions contained in KRS 65.8808, the maximum civil
fine shall be $500 and civil fines less than maximum if not contested shall be
$300.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 2-19-98; Am. Ord. 9-2005, passed 11-17-05)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Standard Codes
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code and Standards of Safety;
enforcement agents
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Appeals
Construction Regulations
   
150.15   Construction permit requirements
   
150.16   Installation of satellite dishes
   
150.17   Construction of residences
   
150.18   Construction of garages
   
150.19   Construction and maintenance of swimming pools
   
150.20   Privacy screens
   
150.21   Construction of fences
   
150.22   Construction of accessory buildings on residential lots prohibited
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Use of certain structures and vehicles as residences prohibited, see §
130.02
STANDARD CODES
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY;
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Chapter 7, Title 815 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as
contained in Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations;
the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as contained in Chapter 10, Title 815 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations, together with any amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances. Copies
of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall be placed on file in the
office of the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (B)   The Jefferson County Zoning Enforcement Officer shall be designated as
the local enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code.
   (C)   The Jefferson County Zoning Enforcement Officer and all other
designated officers, agents, and employees of the city are hereby charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of the Standards of Safety.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code shall be extended to all single-
family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
§ 150.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B, is
established to hear such appeals.
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 150.15 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall directly or indirectly commence
or cause to be commenced any excavation, grading or construction of any
dwelling house within the city without first having been issued a permit for
which application shall be made to the City Commission, said application to
contain all reasonable information to enable said Commission to determine
whether or not such proposed construction shall be in conformity with all
applicable laws and deeds of restriction.
   (B)   (1)   If the City Commission shall be satisfied on the basis of such
application that the proposed construction is in conformity with all applicable
law and deeds of restriction then, it shall within eight calendar days after
the regular monthly meeting of said Commission next after the receipt of such
application issue to the applicant a permit for such construction.
      (2)   An application may be made either by the owner of the property on
which the improvement is to be located or by the prime contractor who shall be
responsible for the work.
      (3)   All applications shall be accompanied when filed by a fee payable
to the Treasurer of the City in the amount of $150.
      (4)   In the event of denial of any application for a permit the fee
shall be refunded.
   (C)   If, during the construction of any improvement for which a permit is
issued hereunder the property owner or prime contractor or any subcontractor,
agent, servant or employee of the owner or prime contractor shall, in
connection with such construction violate any ordinance of the city or other
applicable law then, in the discretion of the City Commission, such permit may
be suspended.
(Ord. 5-1977, passed 11-3-77) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 INSTALLATION OF SATELLITE DISHES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity
to construct or install any satellite dish in the city larger than 20 inches in
diameter or to enlarge or alter any satellite dish, to a diameter greater than
20 inches in the city. Any and all satellite dishes which conform to the
foregoing requirement must be placed in the back or side yard of the premises.
   (B)   Any satellite dish within the city installed before the effective date
of this section and existing as of the effective date of this section shall be
screened from public view in order to eliminate the potential that the
maintenance of the dish will create a nuisance, hazard, eye-sore, or will
otherwise have a substantial adverse effect on neighboring properties or will
in any other manner be detrimental to the public health, safety, welfare or
aesthetics of the residents of the city.
   (C)   In addition to the penalty provided in §
150.99, any person, firm or corporation or other entity in violation of this
section shall immediately take corrective action to come into compliance with
this section.
(Ord. 4-1995, passed 5-11-95) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 CONSTRUCTION OF RESIDENCES.
   (A)   Any residential structure erected or placed on any lot, exclusive of
porches and garages, shall contain on the ground floor not less than
      (1)   1,700 square feet for a one story dwelling;
      (2)   1,100 square feet for a one and one-half story dwelling;
      (3)   1,100 square feet for a two-story dwelling.
   (B)   Any residential structure erected or placed on any lot, exclusive of
basements, porches and garages, shall contain a total not less than
      (1)   1,700 square feet for a one story dwelling;
      (2)   2,000 square feet for a one and one-half story dwelling;
      (3)   2,200 square feet for a two story dwelling.
   (C)   The outside walls of any residential structure erected or placed on
any lot shall be covered with brick, stone, brick veneer or stone veneer unless
some other material shall be approved in writing by the City Commissioners.
   (D)   Construction of residences shall conform to any additional
requirements set forth in the deeds of restriction which pertain to real
property within the city limits.
(Ord. 6-1981, passed 11-5-81; Am. Ord. 3-1991, passed 7-11-91) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.18 CONSTRUCTION OF GARAGES.
   (A)   All residential structures shall include in plans for construction
therefor and in the construction thereof a garage sufficiently large to
accommodate at least two automobiles.
   (B)   Construction of garages shall conform to the requirements set forth in
the Deeds of Restriction which pertain to real property within the city limits.
   (C)   No garage shall be constructed which extends beyond the front line of
the residence.
(Ord. 1-1979, passed 7-12-79; Am. Ord. 5-1981, passed 11-5-81) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.19 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall construct, erect, or maintain
within the city an above-ground swimming or wading pool which is so designed
that after construction or erection the bottom of the tank or reservoir thereof
will be permanently located on or above the surface of the ground on which it
is situated and/or is intended to remain erect year round.
   (B)   Above-ground swimming or wading pool as defined in division (A) above
shall not include small, portable wading pools designed for temporary seasonal
use, of a depth of 36 inches or less, and of a diameter of 15 feet or less.
(Ord. 3-1980, passed 7-10-80) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.20 PRIVACY SCREENS.
   (A)   Subject to the approval of the City Commission, the erection and
construction of privacy screens shall be permitted in rear yards of lots within
the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, “Privacy Screen” is defined as a non-
enclosing barrier constructed of wood or brick located next to a patio,
driveway or immediately adjacent to part or all of one or two sides of a real
estate lot, and in no event to be extended toward the front of the property
line beyond the front wall of the residence located on said lot, or an
enclosing barrier constructed of wood or brick located around and immediately
adjacent to the outside edge of the apron of a swimming pool. The height
thereof shall not exceed 78 inches. Chain link or cyclone fencing is hereby
specifically prohibited in the construction thereof.
   (C)   No person, firm or corporation shall begin construction or authorize
construction of a privacy screen without obtaining the prior approval and
authorization thereof from the City Commission.
   (D)   The requirements and prohibitions of this section shall not apply to
structures in existence at the time of passage of this section.
(Ord. 3-1979, passed 9-6-79)
§ 150.21 CONSTRUCTION OF FENCES.
   (A)   Definition. For purposes of this section the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      FENCE shall mean any permanent partition, structure, or gate erected as a
dividing marker, barrier, or enclosure.
   (B)   No fence shall be erected, placed or altered on any lot in the city
from and after the passage of this section, until the construction plans shall
have been approved by the City Commission or its duly authorized committee or
agency. For provisions regarding permits, see §
150.15.
   (C)   Fences must meet required setback lines and the following building
material guidelines. Permitted building materials include wood, wood lookalike
substitutes, brick, wrought iron or aluminum that appears like wrought iron,
and stone. Chain link, unfinished concrete or cinder block, bare wire, barbed
or razor wire and materials not generally considered appropriate for
residential fencing are strictly prohibited. Electric pet fences are permitted
if buried underground.
   (D)   The finished side of a wooden fence shall be placed to the outside or
facing adjoining properties.
   (E)   A fence may not exceed six feet above the finished grade in the area
in which it is placed. A fence must be at least three feet, six inches high,
notwithstanding any other height restrictions herein. Berms, fill or other
methods to raise the elevation at the base of the fence above that of the
general finished grade shall not be used to circumvent the height restriction
and their height will be included in the measurement of the fence height.
   (F)   Any fence constructed shall not extend toward the front of the house
beyond a point one-half the distance of the side walls of such house. For
houses on corner lots, any fence constructed to the side of the house farthest
from the side street shall not extend toward the front of the house beyond a
point one-half the distance of such side wall of the house. Any fence
constructed to the side of the house closest to the side street which such side
faces, shall not extend toward the front of the house beyond the rearmost
corner of the house/garage on such side, and shall not extend toward the side
street beyond the shortest distance between the side street and the rearmost
corner of the house/garage at any point. In no case shall any portion of any
fence extend beyond the allowable building line on the side of a property that
is bounded by a street.
   (G)   Fences shall be maintained in a manner as to prevent rot and
deterioration, rust, corrosion so as not to become a public or private
nuisance, and so as not to be dilapidated or a danger to adjoining property
owners or the public. Every fence shall be maintained in a condition of
reasonable repair and shall not be allowed to become and remain in a condition
of disrepair including, but not limited to, noticeable leaning, missing
sections, broken supports, non-uniform height, or noxious or overgrowth of
vegetation.
   (H)   No person, firm or entity shall construct, maintain or use within the
city limits an electrically charged above-ground fence or enclosure.
(Ord. 4-1979, passed 9-6-79; Am. Ord. 4-1980, passed 9-4-80; Am. Ord. 4-1999,
passed 11-18-99; Am. Ord. 3-2016, passed 8-18-16) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.22 CONSTRUCTION OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS ON RESIDENTIAL LOTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition.  ACCESSORY BUILDING is a subordinate building not used as
living space for the residents and the use of which is merely incidental to
that of the main building. Included, but not limited to, this definition and
the scope of this section, are buildings commonly designated "storage
structures," "utility buildings," "recreational buildings," "storage sheds,"
"carports," "workshops" and "guest cottages."
   (B)   Prohibition. From and after the passage of this section, accessory
buildings will not be permitted to be erected in the city.
   (C)   Penalty. Any individual, corporation or other entity in violation of
the terms of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
shall be fined not less than $100 or more than $500 or imprisoned in the county
jail for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day's violation shall constitute
a separate offense. The City Commission may, in its discretion and in lieu of
pursuing the foregoing criminal charges against violators of this section, file
civil actions against violators seeking injunctive relief against the
continuing violations and such civil damages, including award of attorney fees,
as are applicable under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 2-2004, passed 7-15-04)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Violators of the State Building Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1000, imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense. (KRS 227.990(1))
      (3)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense. (KRS 318.990)
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
150.15 through
150.21 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $10 nor more than $500 for each offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
150.21(H) shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $200 or imprisoned in
the county jail for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day's violation shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 4-1999, passed 11-18-99; Am. Ord. 3-2016,
passed 8-18-16)
   (D)   Pursuant to the provisions contained in KRS 65.8808, the maximum civil
fine shall be $500 and civil fines less than maximum if not contested shall be
$300. (Ord. 9-2005, passed 11-17- 05)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   SUBDIVISION APPORTIONMENT PROVISIONS AND DEED RESTRICTIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing certain unincorporated territory beginning at a
1-1977   8-4-77      stone which is the most southerly corner of the property
                     conveyed to A.W. Bornhauser, recorded in Deed Book 1773,
                     page 558
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a cable television franchise and establishing
                     general regulations such as: conditions of street
                     occupancy; abandonment; indemnity; police powers; transfer
5-1982   8-19-82     and assignments; review, renewal, termination and
                     cancellation; revocation of franchise; foreclosure and
                     receivership; books and records of the franchisee;
                     franchisee not to contest validity of franchise or
                     ordinance; and establishing a penalty.
                     Granting a franchise to Storer Communications of Jefferson
8-1982   11-1-82     County, Inc. to construct, maintain, and operate a
                     community antenna television system within the city.
                     Approving the renewal and amendment of the franchise
                     agreement for community antenna television (CATV) services
                     of TCI TKR of Jefferson County, Inc., D/B/A TKR Cable of
5-1997   12-18-97    Greater Louisville, and including provisions for
                     insurance, reports and records, consumer practices,
                     consumer protection measures, construction and
                     construction-related practices, franchise fees, operation
                     procedures, and health, safety and welfare measures.
                     Granting a communications franchise to Crown Castle NG
                     Central, LLC and authorizing execution of a Franchise
                     Agreement (attached to Ord. 1-2017 as Exhibit A). The
1-2017   2-23-17     Franchise Agreement incorporates and recognizes that the
                     City of Green Springs Code of Ordinances sets forth all
                     rules and regulations regarding such communication
                     services.
                    
 
TABLE III: SUBDIVISION APPORTIONMENT PROVISIONS AND DEED RESTRICTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Apportioning certain lots in Wolf Creek Subdivision,
4-1991   10-10-91    Section 2, for purposes of assessing ad valorem tax
                     liability
                     Providing for alternative methods of enforcement of
1-1995   4-13-95     certain deed restrictions in Sections 1, 2 and 3 of Green
                     Spring Subdivision and portions of Sections 1 and 2 of
                     Wolf Creek Subdivision within the city
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section                   Code Section
6.050                         32.47
6.955 - 6.975                 33.04
Ch. 13A                       93.02
Ch. 13B                       93.06
18A.225                       110.03
Ch. 31                        34.16
41.240(4)                     33.05
42.450 - 42.495               33.04
43.050                        33.04
Ch. 45A                       34.16
Ch. 56                        34.16
Ch. 61                        32.21
61.168                        34.16
61.870 et seq.                112.05
61.870 - 61.884               34.17
61.870 - 61.882               31.36
61.870                        34.01
61.872(4)                     34.06
61.872(5)                     34.07
61.872(6)                     34.08
61.874(1) - (3)               34.12
61.874(3)                     34.13
61.874(4)                     34.13
61.874(5)                     34.14
61.874(6)                     34.15
61.878                        34.01,
                              34.16
61.878(1)                     34.16
61.880(1)                     34.09,
                              34.16
61.884                        34.11
62.060                        31.01
63A.080                       37.15
65.003(3)(e)                  36.04
65.063                        36.01
65.120                        71.99
65.8801 - 65.8839             37.02
65.8805                       37.15
                              50.99,
                              71.99,
                              72.99,
                              73.99,
                              91.99,
65.8808                       92.99,
                              93.99,
                              94.99,
                              95.99,
                              130.99,
                              150.99
65.8815(5)                    37.05
66.660                        91.06
82.082                        35.03
Ch. 83A                       31.20
83A.010(3)                    10.02
83A.010(6)                    10.02
83A.010(8)                    10.02
83A.030(2)                    30.02
83A.040(1)                    31.21
83A.040(2)                    31.21
83A.040(2)(b)                 31.21
83A.040(2)(d)                 31.21
83A.040(3)                    31.21
83A.040(4)                    32.01
83A.040(5)                    32.02
83A.040(6)                    31.21,
                              32.02
83A.040(7)                    31.21,
                              32.02
83A.040(8)                    31.21,
                              32.02
83A.040(9)                    31.03
83A.050                       31.20
83A.060(1)                    32.35
83A.060(2)                    32.36
83A.060(3)                    32.37
83A.060(4)                    32.38
83A.060(5)                    32.39
83A.060(6)                    32.22
83A.060(7)                    32.38
83A.060(8)                    32.40,
                              32.41
83A.060(9)                    32.42
83A.060(10)                   32.43
83A.060(11)                   32.44
83A.060(12)                   32.45
83A.060(13)                   32.45
83A.060(14)                   32.46
83A.060(15)                   32.47
83A.070                       31.02
83A.075                       31.02
83A.080(1)                    31.35
83A.080(2)                    31.03,
                              31.35
83A.080(3)                    31.20
83A.080(4)                    31.20
83A.085                       31.36
83A.090                       32.04
83A.130                       31.21
83A.140(1)                    30.01
83A.140(2)                    30.02
83A.140(3)                    32.03
83A.140(4)                    31.21,
                              32.20
83A.140(5)                    32.03
83A.140(6)                    32.04
83A.140(7)                    32.21
83A.140(8)                    32.03
83A.175                       32.02
91A.010                       33.01
91A.010(8)                    10.02
91A.020                       33.02
91A.030                       33.03
91A.040(1)                    33.04
91A.040(5)                    33.04
91A.040(6)                    33.04
91A.040(10)                   33.04
91A.040(11)                   33.04
91A.040(12)                   33.04
91A.040(13)                   33.04
91A.050                       33.04
91A.060                       33.05
91A.070(2)                    35.03
91A.080                       110.08,
                              110.99
91A.080(2)                    110.02
91A.080(3)                    110.03
91A.080(8)                    110.04,
                              110.05
91A.080(9)                    110.04
91A.080(10)                   110.03
91A.080(12)                   110.02
91A.200                       33.11
91A.210                       33.10
91A.220                       33.11
91A.230                       33.12
91A.240                       33.13
91A.250                       33.14
91A.260                       33.15
91A.270                       33.16
91A.280                       33.17
91A.290                       33.18
Ch. 107                       33.11
Ch. 116 - 121                 31.20
131.010(6)                    110.04
132.285                       35.01
134.800                       35.04
134.810                       35.04
Ch. 154                       34.16
174.100                       91.15
174.100(1)                    91.16
174.100(2)                    91.17
174.100(3)                    91.17
174.100(4)                    91.18
174.100(5)                    91.19
174.100(6)                    91.20
174.100(7)                    91.20
178.290                       91.06
186A.145                      72.22
186A.190                      72.22
189.020                       71.27
189.285                       73.02
189.287                       73.01
189.290                       71.25
189.330(8)                    71.02
189.338                       70.15
189.450(5)                    72.03
189.450(6)                    72.03
189.580                       71.15
189.635(8)(b)1.a. - e.        34.01
189.725                       72.08
189.930                       71.26
189.990(1)                    72.99
189.993(8)                    71.99
196.099                       34.01
Ch. 198B                      150.03
198B.070                      150.03
198B.990(1)                   150.99
227.700 - 227.750             93.06
227.700                       93.01
227.702                       93.01
227.704                       93.01
227.706                       93.01
227.708                       93.01
227.710                       93.02
227.715                       93.03
227.715(6) - (8)              93.03
227.720                       93.04
227.730                       93.05
227.750                       93.06
227.990(1)                    150.99
227.990(4)                    93.99
257.100                       90.04
Ch. 281                       72.21
281.920 - 281.936             72.22
281.926                       72.22
281.928                       72.21
281.928(1)                    72.21
281.932                       72.21
Ch. 304, Subtitle 17B         110.03
318.990                       150.99
Ch. 342                       110.03
359.230                       72.22
376.275(1), (2) (Repealed)  72.21
376.275(1)                    72.22
411.500 - 411.570             Ch. 92
                              32.42,
Ch. 424                       33.04,
                              33.14,
                              33.15
424.120                       33.04
424.190(2)                    33.04
424.220                       33.04
436.600                       90.03,
                              90.99
446.010(1)                    10.02
446.010(2)                    10.02
446.010(8)                    10.02
446.010(9)                    10.02
446.010(10)                   10.02
446.010(11)                   10.02
446.010(12)                   10.02
446.010(13)                   10.02
446.010(14)                   10.02
446.010(15)                   10.02
446.010(17)                   10.02
446.010(18)                   10.02
446.010(19)                   10.02
446.010(23)                   10.02
446.010(25)                   10.02
446.010(26)                   10.02
446.010(27)                   10.02
446.010(28)                   10.02
446.010(30)                   10.02
446.010(31)                   10.02
446.010(33)                   10.02
446.010(36)                   10.02
446.010(37)                   10.02
446.010(39)                   10.02
446.010(43)                   10.02
446.010(46)                   10.02
446.010(47)                   10.02
446.010(49)                   10.02
446.010(53)                   10.02
446.010(55)                   10.02
446.020(1)                    10.03
446.020(2)                    10.03
446.030                       10.04
446.050                       10.05
446.060                       10.06
446.080(1)                    10.03
446.080(3)                    10.03
446.080(4)                    10.03
446.090                       10.07
446.100                       10.08
446.110                       10.09
446.140                       10.01
520.010                       34.01
525.125                       90.02,
                              90.05
                              90.02,
525.130                       90.05,
                              90.99
525.135                       90.05
                              
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     72.06,
3-1975   5-5-75      72.14,
                     94.02,
                     94.99
1-1977   8-4-77      T.S.O. I
3-1977   10-6-77     130.01,
                     130.99
5-1977   11-3-77     150.15
2-1978   12-7-78     72.13
1-1979   7-12-79     150.18
3-1979   9-6-79      150.20
4-1979   9-6-79      150.21
3-1980   7-10-80     150.19
4-1980   9-4-80      150.21
2-1981   3-5-81      30.01,
                     30.02
5-1981   11-5-81     150.18
6-1981   11-5-81     150.17
3-1982   1-14-82     31.35,
                     31.36
5-1982   8-19-82     T.S.O. II
8-1982   11-1-82     T.S.O. II
                     111.01 -
5-1983   12-8-83     111.04,
                     111.99
3-1984   2-9-84      32.04
5-1984   5-18-84     130.01
                     91.45 -
1-1991   2-14-91     91.47,
                     91.99
3-1991   7-11-91     150.17
4-1991   10-10-91    T.S.O. III
1-1992   3-12-92     110.01 -
                     110.05
                     92.01 -
1-1993   3-11-93     92.07,
                     92.99
                     36.01 -
                     36.05,
                     36.15 -
4-1994   12-15-94    36.20,
                     36.30 -
                     36.34,
                     36.99
1-1995   4-13-95     T.S.O. III
3-1995   4-13-95     36.04
4-1995   5-11-95     150.16
5-1995   5-11-95     35.03
1-1996   3-14-96     32.21
3-1997   10-16-97    91.07,
                     91.99
4-1997   11-20-97    50.01,
                     50.99
5-1997   12-18-97    T.S.O. II
1-1998   2-19-98     130.02,
                     130.99
2-1998   2-19-98     72.15,
                     72.99
4-1999   11-18-99    150.21,
                     150.99
3-2000   9-21-00     72.16
4-2000   10-19-00    130.03
2-2001   6-21-01     32.21
                     95.01 -
3-2002   1-16-03     95.13,
                     95.99
2-2003   8-21-03     92.01
4-2003   10-16-03    72.16,
                     72.99
2-2004   7-15-04     150.22
1-2005   4-21-05     32.21
                     112.01 -
                     112.10,
                     112.20 -
                     112.41,
4-2005   5-19-05     112.50 -
                     112.64,
                     112.75 -
                     112.78,
                     112.90 -
                     112.92
7-2005   10-20-05    37.01 -
                     37.14
8-2005   11-17-05    37.15
                     50.99,
                     71.99,
                     72.99,
                     73.99,
                     91.99,
9-2005   11-17-05    92.99,
                     93.99,
                     94.99,
                     95.99,
                     130.99,
                     150.99
2-2011   7-21-11     91.08,
                     91.99
3-2012   1-17-13     32.21
3-2014   10-16-14    91.08,
                     91.99
                     96.01 -
2-2016   8-18-16     96.04,
                     96.99
3-2016   8-18-16     150.21,
                     150.99
1-2017   2-23-17     T.S.O. II
-        - -         10.02
3-2017   8-17-17     35.03
3-2018   7-19-18     35.03
                     110.01 -
1-2019   3-21-19     110.08,
                     110.99
2-2020   8-20-20     35.03
3-2021   6-17-21     35.03
                    
 
