CITY OF GUTHRIE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-8
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 2020-9
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY
   OF GUTHRIE, KENTUCKY, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING,
   CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
   ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN
   THE CODE
WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Guthrie, Kentucky are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky empower
and authorize the Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate the
ordinances into one ordinance in book forrn; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the City of Guthrie, Kentucky has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the City of Guthrie
that:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Guthrie as herein revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Guthrie, Kentucky."
Section 2. The Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles:
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
“Guthrie Code,” for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted.
      (2)   Title heads, chapter heads and section and division heads or
titles, and explanatory notes and cross-references, do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   (1)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to
those components of the code unless otherwise specified.
      (2)   Any component code may be referred to and cited by its name, such
as the “traffic code.”
      (3)   Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation “§”
followed by the number, such as “§ 10.01.”
      (4)   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title,
chapter and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall
not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of the state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature, except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code, shall
denote the City of Guthrie, irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The City of Guthrie, Kentucky legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Todd County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of the state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6), KRS 91A.010(4))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KAR. Kentucky Administrative Regulations.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LAW. Applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the State of
Kentucky, the ordinances of the City of Guthrie and, when appropriate, any and
all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Guthrie, Kentucky.
   MUST. The act referred to is mandatory.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. (KRS 446.010(28))
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part
of such building or land.
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers and other persons with similar authority to
make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   PRECEDING/FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER.
   (1)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in the
chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter, setting
apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
   (2)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the VACANCY is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   WRITTEN. Printed, typewritten, mimeographed, multigraphed or otherwise
reproduced in permanent visible form.
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
(Prior Code, § 1.04.010)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   (1)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act
to be done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the
day on which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in
computing the time.
      (2)   If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is
required to be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on
which the public office in which the act is required to be completed is
actually and legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none
of the days just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may, by law, as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect; except that, the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by ordinances
passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any chapter, section or
division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as printed or omitted
shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances until Council shall
adopt a new code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
   
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL
   
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
   
32.   CITY COUNCIL
   
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
   
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
   
35.   TAXATION
   
36.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
   
37.   CITY POLICIES
   
38.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL
Section
30.01   Form of government
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan,” and this chapter, together with KRS 83A.010 to 83A.120, govern
the city.
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or
city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of not less than six nor more than
12 members as prescribed by ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
31.01   Oath
31.02   Compensation
31.03   Removal from office
31.04   Bond
31.05   Mandated leave of absence; seeking election to city office
Elected Officials
31.20   Election procedure
31.21   Mayor
31.22   Council members
Nonelected City Officials
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
31.36   City Clerk/Treasurer
Job Development Incentives Program
31.50   Definitions
31.51   Purposes, goals and objectives
31.52   Creation
31.53   Job development incentive program committee; duties; Director; duties
of Chief Financial Officer
31.54   Eligibility requirements
31.55   Application and review procedure
31.56   Events of default
31.57   Remedies
31.58   Bankruptcy
31.59   Exemption from open records
31.60   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH.
   Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the discharge of duties
of his or her office, take the following oath:
“I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the
Constitution of this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States,
and be faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue
a citizen thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my
ability, the office of           , according to law; and I do further solemnly
swear (or affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I,
being a citizen of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly
weapons within this State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a
challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in
carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help
me God,” as established by § 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall, by ordinance, fix the compensation of every
elected city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in
which the officer is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be
changed after his or her election or during his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.070(1))
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Council members
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
shall compute by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky,
which provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a
rate no greater than $12,000 per annum, and Mayors in cities other than the
first class and Council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200
per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
(KRS 83A.075)
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of city employees and
nonelected city officers in accordance with the personnel and pay
classification plan ordinance of the city.
(KRS 83A.070(2))
   (C)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(KRS 83A.070(3)) (Ord. 2018-5, passed 4-18-2018)
Case law reference:
   The limits on compensation contained in the Kentucky Constitution are not
absolute limits but rather increase or decrease in accordance with changes in
the consumer price index. See Matthews v. Allen, 360 SW2d 248 (1948).
Editor’s note:
   Compensation ordinances are not set forth in this code but are rather kept
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
incapacity or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council, exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the Circuit Court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory references:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
§ 31.04 BOND.
   (A)   Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS 62.060.
   (B)   All officers, officials and employees of the city who handle public
funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to
the city for the faithful and honest performance of their duties, and as
security for all money coming into that person’s hands or under that person’s
control. The amount of the bond shall be based upon the maximum amount of
public funds the officer, official or employee handles at any given time during
a fiscal year cycle. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the city.
   (C)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with division (A) above.
(KRS 65.067)
§ 31.05 MANDATED LEAVE OF ABSENCE; SEEKING ELECTION TO CITY OFFICE.
   (A)   Any employee or appointed city officer of the city who seeks any
elective city office of the city, shall be required to take an administrative
leave of absence, without pay, commencing on the date of announcement, or date
of filing for said elected public office, whichever may first occur; said
administrative leave shall continue through election day, be it the primary
election, and/or general election, or both, as may be appropriate. Said
employee, or appointed city officer, may return to his or her regular work the
day following election day. His or her job will be held open during the leave
period, and he or she shall return at the same salary previously earned before
the leave of absence commenced. This leave of absence shall apply to both the
primary, as well as the general election.
   (B)   The requirements of this provision of the code of city ordinances does
not apply to an incumbent elected official.
(Ord. 2002-C06, passed 12-10-2002)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The form of election of the Mayor and the City Council shall be
nonpartisan and the city shall forego the conducting of primary elections, both
as provided for by KRS 83A.045.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above by ordinance, except that no change shall be
made earlier than five years form the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office, Existing elected offices
may be continued under provisions of divisions (D), (E) and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
   (H)   Any employee or appointed city officer who seeks any elective city
office shall be required to take an administrative leave of absence, without
pay, commencing on the date of announcement, or date of filing for said elected
public office, whichever may first occur; said administrative leave shall
continue through election day, be it the primary election, and/or general
election, or both, as may be appropriate. Said employee, or appointed city
officer, may return to his or her regular work the day following election day.
His or her job will be held open during the leave period, and he or she shall
return at the same salary previously earned before the leave of absence
commenced. This leave of absence shall apply to the both the primary as well as
the general election.
(2002 Code, § 31.20) (Ord. 2017-12, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office shall begin on January 1 following his or her
election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor qualifies.
If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and
serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be
considered for purposes of re-election to a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official’s electronic mail address
and includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed
to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council or the Governor,
whichever is designated to make the appointment, shall immediately notify in
writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to 83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and
exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and shall require each department to
make reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems
desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest. (KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to ensure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance or contract, and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the
authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this division
(D)(8) within 30 days of the action. If for any reason the disability of the
Mayor to attend to his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the
office of Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and
the provisions of §
31.21(C) shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
   (E)   Authority to negotiate terms and to contract. 
      (1)   The Mayor, through Guthrie Natural Gas (Kentucky Energy Systems,
LLC), shall have the authority to negotiate individual contracts with large
industrial or business consumers of natural gas, pertaining to the provision,
sale and/or transportation of large volumes of natural gas, and which such
contracts may contain terms, provisions and conditions different from or in
conflict with other city code of ordinance sections pertaining to the provision
of natural gas services, to the extent permitted by state and federal law.
      (2)   Only those customers or potential customers with a projected
minimum annual average usage of 10,000 dekatherm per month shall be eligible
for consideration under this provision.
      (3)   This division (E) shall not be construed to require the city to
enter into any contract, or to agree to any specific terms, conditions or
provision, with any natural gas customer.
      (4)   All contracts entered into pursuant to this division (E) shall be
approved by the Mayor and Guthrie Natural Gas (Kentucky Energy Systems, LLC).
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 31.22 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32 of this code of ordinances.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
(KRS 83A.080(1))
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall be with
approval of City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall
be appointed by the Mayor at will and these appointments need not be approved
by City Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
      (1)   Upon removal of a nonelected officer at will, the Mayor shall give
the officer a written statement setting forth the reason or reasons for the
removal.
      (2)   However, this requirement shall not be construed as limiting in any
way the at-will dismissal power of the Mayor.
(KRS 83A.080(3)
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      [Reserved]
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(2), (3)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The office of City Clerk/Treasurer may, by ordinance, be combined with
any other nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of the
office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk/Treasurer shall include,
but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the official custodian or
custodian in accordance with KRS 61.870 to 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail to the Department for
Local Government a list containing current city information, including, but not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   The correct name of the Mayor, Council members and the following
appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk/Treasurer;
            2.   City Manager;
            3.   City Attorney;
            4.   Finance Director;
            5.   Police Chief;
            6.   Fire Chief; and
            7.   Public Works Director.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person who may be reached during normal business
hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk/Treasurer by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk/Treasurer unless
the person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
commonwealth and has provided bond, if required, with corporate surety
authorized to transact business in the state and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
JOB DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES PROGRAM
§ 31.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A business for occupational license fee withholdings credit
pursuant to this subchapter exclusive of retail industry jobs, bars, hotels/
motels or jobs in a sexually oriented business/adult entertainment business as
elsewhere defined within the city’s code of ordinances.
   APPROVED COMPANY.  An applicant approved by the city.
   COMMITTEE. The Job Development Incentive Committee.
   DIRECTOR. The Job Development Incentive Director or City Manager acting in
that capacity.
   ELIGIBLE COMPANY. Any corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
limited partnership, sole proprietorship or any other entity engaged in
manufacturing or warehouse/distribution operations.
   EMPLOYEE WITHHOLDINGS. The occupational license fee withholdings from an
employee’s wages, salaries, bonuses or commissions as set forth in this
subchapter.
   NEW JOBS. The creation of full time jobs directly created and employed by
the applicant as a result of the project in the on-going operation of the
applicant’s business, not including jobs temporarily created or retained by
construction of the project.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 31.51 PURPOSES, GOALS AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The city hereby declares that improvement of the quality of life for
citizens in the city is an important goal and objective, and that as part of
its effort to meet that objective the city must:
      (1)   Recognize the importance of a growing and expanding economy;
      (2)   Create programs to foster an atmosphere that encourages economic
development; and
      (3)   Provide incentives for the creation of new jobs in the service,
technology and industrial sectors.
   (B)   In order to satisfy the needs and take the action identified herein
above, the city has determined that it should create a program to offer
employee withholdings credits to service, technology and industrial prospects
on the city taxable wages directly created by the project.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 31.52 CREATION.
   There is hereby established the Job Development Incentive Program by which
incentives are made available to qualified applicants in the form of employee
withholding credits generated by the new jobs of an eligible company upon the
terms and conditions set forth in the Program.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 31.53 JOB DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVE PROGRAM COMMITTEE; DUTIES; DIRECTOR; DUTIES
OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Job Development Incentive Program Committee
composed of four members as follows:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A City Council member nominated by the Mayor and approved by the
City Council;
      (3)   The Executive Director of the Hopkinsville-Christian County
Economic Development Council; and
      (4)   The City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The City Council member shall serve during his or her two-year term of
office. All other members of the Committee shall serve so long as he or she
holds that position.
   (C)   The Committee shall establish and evaluate terms and conditions for
employee withholdings credit applications submitted to it.
   (D)   The Executive Director of the Hopkinsville-Christian County Economic
Development Council shall serve as the Job Development Incentive Director and
shall have the following duties:
      (1)   To assist implementation of this subchapter;
      (2)   To assist applicants in the preparation of applications;
      (3)   To act as liaison between the Committee and applicants;
      (4)   To recommend disposition of applications to the Committee; and
      (5)   To monitor existing employee withholdings credit agreements and
periodically review same with the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (E)   The City Clerk/Treasurer for the city shall provide technical and
managerial assistance to the Committee and the Director, which shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Evaluate and review policy considerations for the Job Development
Incentive Fund Program;
      (2)   Establish rules and regulations with the approval of the Mayor,
which assist the implementation of said policy and this subchapter;
      (3)   Review the availability of funds for the Program as necessary, and
make appropriate recommendations to the City Council to ensure needed funds are
available; and
      (4)   Provide the Committee and Director such advice and support as is
needed to carry out their duties and accomplish the purposes, goals and
objectives of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 31.54 ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Eligible applicants. An applicant shall be eligible for employee
withholdings credit if they are an eligible company as defined herein.
   (B)   Eligible projects. 
      (1)   A project shall be eligible for employee withholdings credit only
if:
         (a)   It directly creates at least ten new jobs and generates no less
than $150,000 in the city taxable employee wages in the on-going operation of
the applicant’s business; or
         (b)   It qualifies for economic development incentives pursuant to a
program administered by the commonwealth and the program requires participation
by the city.
      (2)   Once an incentive credit is granted to an applicant, no additional
credits will be made to the applicant or the applicant’s principal without
proof of increased employment resulting in additional new jobs and employee
withholdings.
      (3)   Any additional incentive credits will be at the sole discretion of
the city.
   (C)   Employee withholdings credits.
      (1)   The employee withholding credits are designed to and intended to
provide a credit to eligible applicants of the withholding fees payable to the
city, which are generated by new employees. To be eligible for the credit, the
applicant must generate a minimum of $150,000 in the city taxable wages each
calendar year of the credit. If approved, the applicant may be rebated, at the
city’s discretion, up to 100% of the employees’ withholdings generated by new
jobs otherwise owed to the city for a period up to five years. This credit is
to be applied to the employee withholdings payable to the city and not for any
other taxes or fees payable to the city, the County School Board or to any
other taxing agency, district or authority.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of an approved company to deduct the
employee withholdings from the employees’ paychecks and submit to the city in a
timely manner. It shall also be the responsibility of an approved company to
report all employee withholdings to the city on forms prescribed by the city.
Upon review by the city that an approved company is continuing to meet the
requirements of the Program, the city may rebate the amount due to the approved
company within 30 days of receipt of the tax payment. Any questions regarding
continued eligibility shall be brought before the Job Development Incentive
Program Committee.
      (3)   In the event any applicant should fail to generate the minimum
requisite city taxable wages or new jobs set forth above during any year of the
approved term, the city, at its discretion, may lower the percentage amount for
each of the remaining years.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 31.55 APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   An applicant shall submit to the Director a completed incentive
program application, which shall include the following at a minimum:
      (1)   A description of the project, total project cost, sources of
funding and purpose of the incentive application;
      (2)   A five-year pro forma, including the number of new jobs to be
created, the wages, salaries, bonuses and commissions expected to be paid and
the amount of city employee withholdings expected to be generated by the new
jobs;
      (3)   General information about company management capabilities,
including resumes of top management and the company’s marketing strategies;
      (4)   Such financial and non-financial information about the applicant
and/or its principals as is required by this subchapter or as otherwise deemed
necessary by the Director or the Committee; and
      (5)   Certification that the applicant is an equal opportunity employer
and agrees that it shall not discriminate in hiring and employment because of
race, creed, color, national origin, religion, sex, age or disability and that
it shall comply with all federal, state and local equal opportunity policies
and laws to insure non-discrimination because of race, creed, color, national
origin, religion, sex, age or disability. The applicant shall certify that it
has adopted an Affirmative Action Plan and agrees to provide a copy of same to
the city upon request and further agrees to provide the city a summary of its
work force during the term of the agreement delineating the above
classifications.
   (B)   Each application and its supporting documentation and information
shall be executed under oath by an authorized representative of the applicant
or of the applicant’s principal with personal knowledge of the facts and
representations made therein. It shall be unlawful for any such person to
materially misrepresent any statement or fact in the application or supporting
documents or information submitted to the Director, the Committee or the city.
   (C)   (1)   The Director shall review each application to verify the
information submitted therewith and determine:
         (a)   Whether the application meets the program eligibility
requirements;
         (b)   The accuracy of the factual representations in the application
and the applicant’s employment and financial projections;
         (c)   The amount of the incentive for which the applicant qualifies
and the terms upon which the Director would recommend approval to the
Committee;
         (d)   Special credit risks presented by the applicant or the project;
         (e)   Whether the withholding tax credit is in the best interests of
the city using sound financial criteria which would be most appropriate for the
applicant; and
         (f)   Any and all other matters deemed appropriate to weigh the credit
worthiness of the applicant, the incentive program application and the project.
      (2)   The Director may request additional information from the applicant
at any time.
   (D)   After the Director’s review of the application, he or she shall submit
it with his or her recommendations to the Committee for review. The Committee
may request additional information from the applicant at any time. Following
its review, the Committee shall either reject the application or recommend its
approval based on the terms and conditions it may reasonably impose. If the
terms and conditions of approval are accepted by the applicant, the incentive
program application shall be submitted to the City Council for final approval.
No employee withholdings credit shall be made without prior approval of the
City Council. Following final approval of the withholding tax credit by the
City Council, the Mayor shall be authorized to execute on behalf of the city
any and all documents necessary to effect closing of the employee withholdings
credit.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 31.56 EVENTS OF DEFAULT.
The following shall constitute events of default, which may be declared by the
city:
   (A)   Failure of an approved company to report or to pay employee
withholdings as required by this subchapter, whether from new jobs or existing
jobs;
   (B)   Failure of an approved company to satisfy the projected schedule of
employee withholdings submitted with its incentive program application or as
set forth in the program agreement;
   (C)   Failure of an approved company to pay any tax, license fee, penalty or
other charge or obligation to the city pursuant to the code of ordinances;
   (D)   Failure of an approved company to comply with any term, condition or
obligation imposed by this subchapter;
   (E)   Failure of an approved company to comply with any term, condition or
obligation of the incentive program agreement; and
   (F)   The making of any material misrepresentation of any statement or fact
on an approved company’s incentive program application or supporting documents,
whether or not relied upon by the city, Committee or Director.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 31.57 REMEDIES.
   (A)   In the event of default under an employee withholdings credit
agreement, the city may suspend the credit until such time as the default is
cured or the city may terminate the credit. If the credit is terminated, the
city may initiate legal proceedings to recover the amount of employee
withholdings credited to the approved company up to the date the credit was
terminated. The approved company shall immediately begin paying to the city all
employee withholdings upon notification of a suspension or termination of the
credit.
   (B)   In the event the city initiates legal proceedings to enforce its
rights under the incentive program agreement and/or this subchapter, it shall
be entitled to collect its costs, reasonable attorney’s fees and any other
charges imposed or authorized by the incentive program agreement or this
subchapter.
   (C)   The failure of the city to declare a default in any event thereof
shall not constitute a waiver thereof.
   (D)   The remedies contained in the incentive program agreement shall be
cumulative and in addition to any other remedy authorized by law. Said remedies
may be exercised separately, together or in any combination thereof, and any
such exercise shall not constitute a waiver of any remaining remedies.
   (E)   In an event of default, the approved company shall, in addition to the
remedies specified in this section, pay a liquidated sum in an amount equal to
the difference between the approved company’s projected schedule of employee
withholdings and its actual employee withholdings generated by new jobs
reported and/or paid to the city. If the city does not declare a default, the
approved company, upon final deferral and/or payment of the incentive payment
agreement, or upon obtaining the final employee withholdings credit, shall, in
addition, pay a liquidated sum in an amount equal to the difference between the
approved company’s projected schedule of employee withholdings and its actual
employee withholdings generated by new jobs reported and/or paid to the city.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 31.58 BANKRUPTCY.
   No discharge in bankruptcy or other bankruptcy proceedings shall affect the
approved company’s obligation to comply with this subchapter, except as
provided by federal or state law.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 31.59 EXEMPTION FROM OPEN RECORDS.
   Any and all information submitted to the Director, Committee or city
pursuant to this subchapter shall be exempt from public disclosure pursuant to
KRS Chapter 61.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 31.60 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Upon conviction for violation of §
31.55(B), said person shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not
more than 12 months or both. For purposes of this division (B), it is not an
element of the offense for the city to rely on the material misrepresentation.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-8-2013)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
32.02   Vacancies
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
32.21   Meetings
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
32.35   One subject; title
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
32.37   Form of amendment
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
32.41   Official city records
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
32.43   Publication requirements
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
32.45   Periodic review required
32.46   Municipal orders
32.47   Proved by Clerk/Treasurer; received in evidence
32.48   Legislative immunity
Cross-reference:
   City officials, see
Chapter 31
   Mayor-Council, see
Chapter 30
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Council member shall be elected at
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Council
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on January 1 following the election and shall
be for two years, except as provided by KRS 83A.050.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s
electronic mail address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of
the City Council occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter
of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the City Council occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs on the City Council
which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City
Council or the Governor, whichever is designated to make the appointment, shall
immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State
of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the elected Council of the city. The Council shall not perform any executive
functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules and
regulations for the public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council shall have the right to investigate all activities of city
government.
      (1)   The Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and
submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official
duties.
      (2)   Any statement required by the Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency
under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or
undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to
the Mayor.
      (3)   The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council
and to appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of any
department, office, or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the City Council. The City
Council has the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which one
of its number may be selected to preside at meetings of the City Council in the
absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in City Council proceedings but shall not
have a vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
   (C)   The unexcused absence from three consecutive regular Council meetings
by any member of the legislative body of the city shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of misconduct, incapacity or willful neglect in the performance of the
duties of his or her office as a member of the City Council, as set out in KRS
83A.040(9), and said member may be removed from office by unanimous vote of the
remaining members of the legislative body, exclusive of the member to be
removed, as prescribed by KRS 83A.040.
      (1)   The member of the legislative body sought to be removed shall be
given the right to a full public hearing, prior to deliberation and vote to
remove by the remaining members of the City Council.
      (2)   If removed, he or she shall have the right to appeal to the Circuit
Court of the county, and appeal shall be on the record.
(KRS 83A.130(5)) (Ord. 2000-C-2, passed 9-12-2000)
Cross-reference:
   Council’s responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular monthly meeting of the City Council shall be the second
Tuesday of each month at 7:00 p.m. at City Hall for the purpose of conducting
the business of the city by the duly elected members of the city legislative
body, commonly called the City Council, along with the Mayor. All other
elective or appointed city officers are invited to said meeting and shall
attend when specifically requested. The public is invited and news media will
be notified of this meeting.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting, no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under § 31.36 and by the officer
presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (2002 Code, § 32.20) (Ord. 96-C-7, passed 12-12-1996)
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council shall
constitute a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060(6)) (2002 Code, § 32.21)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause, styled: “Be it ordained by the City of Guthrie.”
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
(KRS 83A.060(4))
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication to provide for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(7))
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by
returning it to the Council together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the Council within ten days after receiving it or
unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon reconsideration of
the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its return,
by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, state-wide or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title, source
and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without setting
them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is made a
part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council shall be made a part of the permanent
records of the city, and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk/Treasurer and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk/Treasurer in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years; and
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and indexed in a composite index or
maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)(a), (b))
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
Council. If the Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the summary
shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law in the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads in
lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city shall not
lessen or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute
relating to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   At least once every five years, the city shall cause all ordinances in this
code of ordinances to be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and to be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and may be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
(KRS 83A.060(12))
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, a municipal order may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the city has control.
(KRS 83A.060(13))
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK/TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk/Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Council members shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
33.01   Definitions
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
33.20   Definitions
33.21   Financing of improvements
33.22   Apportionment of cost
33.23   Comprehensive report required
33.24   Public hearing required
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
33.26   Affected owner may contest
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year, and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, no monies shall be expended from any governmental
or proprietary fund except in accordance with a budget ordinance adopted
pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in the form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may be in any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, if the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in § 33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer or employee of a city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond existing appropriations
are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate or warrant for
the payment of money by the city in any way to any extent, beyond the
unexpended balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (C) below, each city shall,
after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited
by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audits
shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited. Within ten days of the completion of the audit and its presentation to
the City Council, in accordance with division (D)(5) of this section, each city
shall forward an electronic copy or three paper copies of the audit report to
the Department for Local Government for information purposes.
   (B)   (1)   A city with a population of less than 1,000 based upon the most
recent federal decennial census shall, after the close of each odd-numbered
fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public
Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audits shall be completed by
March 1 immediately following the fiscal year to be audited. Within ten days of
the completion of the audit and its presentation to the Council, in accordance
with division (D)(5) of this section, the city shall forward an electronic copy
or three paper copies of the audit report to the Department for Local
Government for information purposes.
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, each city
subject to the provisions of this division (B) shall prepare a financial
statement in accordance with KRS 424.220 and immediately forward one electronic
or paper copy to the Department for Local Government.
   (C)   Any city, which for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than $150,000, and which has no long-term
debt, whether general obligation or revenue debt, shall not be required to
audit each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. In addition, each
city exempted in accordance with this division (C) shall annually prepare a
financial statement in accordance with KRS 424.220 and immediately forward one
electronic or paper copy to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes.
   (D)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biannual
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include but not be limited to requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the City Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon request.
   (E)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (F)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the City Council, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS Chapter 424,
containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (G)   Any city may utilize the alternative publication methods authorized by
KRS 424.190(2) to comply with the provisions of this section.
   (H)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be
subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the
discretion of the court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action
brought by any resident of the city. The costs of all proceedings, including a
reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident bringing the action, shall be
assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(KRS 91A.040)
   (I)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all the properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all the properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all the property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Chapter 107
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious or charitable organization. Council
may assess the property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   s(F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish the ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.25, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution shall be final and binding with respect to the
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26, or after favorable final judgment in the action, whichever comes later,
the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the action,
including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment thereon
and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The first
installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment,
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§ 33.23 through 33.27
apply if additional property is included in the improvement or if change is
made in the method or period of financing; but additional property may be
included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof without
compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost apportioned to
any other property, or any other change may be made without this compliance, if
all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
34.17   Public records not immediately available
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
34.22   Format of copies
34.23   Fees for copies
34.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
34.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
34.26   Public records protected from disclosure
34.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH AND PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE. A photograph or image
of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes when
the individual is booked into a detention facility as defined in KRS 520.010 or
photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099. (KRS 61.870
(9))
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   CUSTODIAN.  
      (1)   The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
(KRS 61.870(6))
      (2)   The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of most of the public records
of this city is the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor or other automated device.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.  
      (1)   The chief administrative officer or any other officer or employee
of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care and keeping of
public records, regardless of whether the records are in his or her actual
personal custody and control.
(KRS 61.870(5))
      (2)   The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.  
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which, within any fiscal year, derives at least 25% of its
funds expended by it in the commonwealth from state or local authority funds.
However, any funds derived from a state or local authority in compensation for
goods or services that are provided by a contract obtained through a
competitive procurement process shall not be included in the determination of
whether a body is a public agency under this division (8);
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in this division; by a member or employee of the
public agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created and controlled by a public agency as
defined in this division; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in this division.
(KRS 61.870(1))
   PUBLIC RECORD. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORD shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body discussed in division (8) of the
definition of PUBLIC AGENCY, above that are not related to functions,
activities, programs or operations funded by state or local authority.
(KRS 61.870(2))
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3))
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer
during regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official
custodian, or the custodian acting under the authority of the official
custodian, may require a request to inspect public records to be in writing,
signed by the applicant and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the
application. A written request to inspect public records may be presented by
hand delivery, mail or via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer or in another office of the city as determined by the official
custodian or custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original
copies of public records from the offices of the city without the written
permission of the official custodian of the record. When public records are
inspected at the city offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the
right to make abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain
copies of all written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian
may require advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
Statutory reference:
   Right to inspection, limitations, see KRS 61.872(1) - (3)
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk/Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the official custodian of
the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   Each public agency, upon any request for records made under this chapter,
shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the request
and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the five-day
period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in part,
inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific exception
authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of how the
exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued by the
official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1))
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.26.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.26. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one- half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on
white paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American
Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency
maintains electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the
format conforms to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be
provided in this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by
the public agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the
forms described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2))
§ 34.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   Noncommercial purposes.  The public agency may prescribe a reasonable
fee for making copies of nonexempt public records requested for use for
noncommercial purposes which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction,
including the costs of the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by
the public agency, but not including the cost of staff required. If a public
agency is asked to produce a record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor
the format to meet the request of an individual or a group, the public agency
may at its discretion provide the requested format and recover staff costs as
well as any actual costs incurred.
(KRS 61.874(3))
   (B)   Commercial purposes.
      (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.25
§ 34.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.23(B)(2);
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.23(B).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court shall
authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to civil
litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency, or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b) above
shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is directed
by statute;
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action; however, records or information compiled
and maintained by county attorneys or Commonwealth’s attorneys pertaining to
criminal investigations or criminal litigation shall be exempted from the
provisions of this chapter and shall remain exempted after enforcement action,
including litigation, is completed or a decision is made to take no action. The
exemptions provided by this division (A)(8) shall not be used by the custodian
of the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights granted by this
chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law;
      (12)   Public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly;
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments.
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division (A)(13) through the disclosure of the location, configuration,
or security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems.
These critical systems shall include but not be limited to information
technology, communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water,
wastewater, sewage and gas systems.
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A)(13): detailed drawings,
schematics, maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and
operating, utility or security systems of any building or facility owned,
occupied, leased or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division (A)(13) and that describe the exact physical
location of hazardous chemical, radiological or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(13), TERRORIST ACT means a criminal
act intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(13)(a)6.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division (A)(13), that public
agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to
in KRS 61.880(1), to the Executive Director of the State Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A)(13) shall affect the obligations of
a public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A)(13) shall not
apply when a member of the State General Assembly seeks to inspect a public
record identified in this division (A)(13) under the Open Records Law;
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law;
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited;
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31;
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of;
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos; and
      (18)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
(KRS 61.878(1))
   (B)   (1)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
(KRS 61.878(2))
      (2)   In addition, if any public record contains material which is not
excepted under this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.18.
(KRS 61.878(4))
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878(5))
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge or
impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. These records
shall include but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant or eligible shall not have
the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878(3))
§ 34.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
35.01   County assessment adopted
35.02   Due date; payment
35.03   Delinquency
35.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
35.05   Disposition of funds
Ad Valorem Tax Collection
35.20   Definitions
35.21   Due date, discount, partial payment, penalties
35.22   Billing; place of payment
35.23   Publishing of delinquent taxes; certificates of delinquency
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the county assessment for all real and personal property situated within
the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or approved by the
City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
§ 35.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due
on November 1.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who pays his or her city taxes in the amount of $1 or
more by November 1 shall be entitled to a discount thereon, as provided by §
35.31.
(2002 Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 1991-C-2, passed 9-12-1991; Ord. 99-C-01, passed 3-
12-1999)
§ 35.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Upon all taxes levied herein, which are unpaid on January 1, there
shall be attached and added a penalty, as provided by § 35.31.
   (B)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by cities of the fifth
class.
(2002 Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 1991-C-2, passed 9-12-1991; Ord. 99-C-01, passed 3-
12-1999)
§ 35.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810, and any taxes not paid by the date when they become
delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 35.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
AD VALOREM TAX COLLECTION
§ 35.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species and character of property, tangible and
intangible, other than real property.
   REAL PROPERTY. All lands within the city limits and improvements thereon.
   TAX CLAIM. Includes, in addition to the taxes due on a tax bill, the
penalties, costs, fees, interest, commissions, liens provided in KRS 134.420
(1), and other such items or expenses that have become or are by reason of the
delinquent tax bill proper legal charges against the delinquent taxpayer at any
given time.
   TAXPAYER. Any person made liable by law to file a return or pay a tax.
(2002 Code, § 35.30) (Ord. 99-C-01, passed 3-12-1999)
§ 35.21 DUE DATE, DISCOUNT, PARTIAL PAYMENT, PENALTIES.
   (A)   All city ad valorem taxes shall be due on November 1 of the year the
tax is levied.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who pays his or her city taxes by October 31 after they
become due in any year shall be entitled to a 2% discount thereon, and the City
Clerk/Treasurer shall allow the discount and give a receipt in full to the
taxpayer. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall not accept any partial payments for
payment of taxes, penalties, or interests.
   (C)   All city taxes, except as otherwise provided by law, shall become
delinquent on January 1 following their due date.
   (D)   Any taxes which are not paid by the date they become delinquent shall
be subject to a penalty of 15% on the taxes due and unpaid; said taxes shall
also bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum.
(2002 Code, § 35.31) (Ord. 99-C-01, passed 3-12-1999)
§ 35.22 BILLING; PLACE OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall cause a tax bill to be issued to the
last known owner of property as of January of the taxable year.
   (B)   The tax bill shall be payable at city hall.
(2002 Code, § 35.32) (Ord. 99-C-01, passed 3-12-1999)
§ 35.23 PUBLISHING OF DELINQUENT TAXES; CERTIFICATES OF DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   If any tax bill remains unpaid through March 1, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall have the names of the delinquent taxpayers and the amounts due
published in the local paper. Any taxpayer whose name is published in the paper
shall be charged an additional fee of $5 to offset the cost of publication.
   (B)   After ten days of the publication, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall
issue certificates of delinquency. After the certificates of delinquency are
issued, the City Council shall retain an attorney to assist with the collection
of the delinquent taxes.
   (C)   The attorney shall follow the same procedures set forth in KRS Chapter
134 relating to county attorneys in the collection of delinquent taxes.
   (D)   The attorney shall receive as compensation 25% of any funds collected,
plus out-of-pocket expenses and court costs advanced by the attorney. Any
charges, costs or expenses incurred by or charged by the attorney shall be
added to the tax bill as additional charges.
(2002 Code, § 35.33) (Ord. 99-C-01, passed 3-12-1999)
CHAPTER 36: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
36.01   Establishment
36.02   Police Chief
36.03   Police Officer
36.04   Use of red and blue lights by police vehicles
36.05   Police Department Policy Manual and Rules and Regulations
§ 36.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the Police Department for the city.
(2002 Code, § 36.01) (Ord. 1999-P-01, passed 10-26-1999)
§ 36.02 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Chief of Police of the city.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the office are hereby established as follows:
      (1)   Plans, organizes, directs, coordinates and evaluates the activities
and programs of the Police Department;
      (2)   Formulates department policies and procedures, rules and
regulations following consultation with higher authority and subordinate
officers;
      (3)   Develops organizational structure of the department in accordance
with professional standards and city policy;
      (4)   Prepares and authorizes work schedules;
      (5)   Furnishes technical advice on police problems;
      (6)   Maintains constant surveillance of criminal and traffic reports in
addition to activity reports;
      (7)   Initiates corrective action when and where necessarily indicated;
      (8)   Supervises and evaluates the use of police equipment;
      (9)   Instructs, disciplines, and evaluates department personnel;
      (10) Reviews and recommends acceptable standards and training of
department personnel;
      (11) Authorizes purchase requisitions of supplies and equipment for the
Police Department;
      (12) Confers with representatives of federal, state and local agencies on
various police problems;
      (13) Prepares memoranda and reports on activities of the department,
orally and in writing, and supervises others in the preparation of reports;
      (14) Attends all Council meetings;
      (15) Receives complaints from the general public;
      (16) Studies and reviews all laws, official opinions and guidelines;
      (17) Maintains a proper record system pertaining to citations, arrest and
investigations;
      (18) Participates in approved law enforcement courses and schedules
subordinates for such training;
      (19) Represents the department as needed; and
      (20) Develops and conducts an effective public relations program.
   (C)   Compensation for this office shall be pay at the weekly rate as
established by ordinance of the City Council.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall execute a bond to the city in the amount of
$1,000.
   (E)   The Chief of Police shall report to the City Council.
(2002 Code, § 36.02) (Ord. 1999-P-01, passed 10-26-1999)
§ 36.03 POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   The office of city police officer is hereby established and shall
consist of a minimum of three officers.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the office of city police officer shall be as
stated in the adopted position description for said position as contained in
the classification plan for city employees, or as otherwise provided by the
City Council.
   (C)   The individual holding the position of city police officer shall take
the following oath upon assuming office:
I, (state your name), do solemnly swear to faithfully execute the duties and
fulfill the responsibilities of the office of city police officer to the very
best of my abilities and with honesty, dependability and integrity. I do
solemnly swear to uphold in the conduct of my office, all ordinances of the
City of Guthrie, Kentucky and all laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and of
the Government of the United States. I do further solemnly swear to conduct
myself at all times with a dignity of purpose and manner which will bring
credit to the citizens of the City of Guthrie, Kentucky.
   (D)   The city police officer shall, before entering the duties of office,
execute a bond to the city in such penal sum of $8,000, conditioned for the
faithful performance of duties, including the duties of all offices of which he
or she is ex officio incumbent. The bond shall be approved by the City Council.
   (E)   The individual holding the position of city police officer shall be
compensated for his efforts in accordance with the adopted pay plan, or as
otherwise provided by the City Council.
(2002 Code, § 36.03) (Ord. 1999-P-01, passed 10-26-1999)
§ 36.04 USE OF RED AND BLUE LIGHTS BY POLICE VEHICLES.
   The city does hereby duly ordain that police vehicles in the city may be
equipped with a combination of red and blue flashing, rotating or oscillating
lights.
(2002 Code, § 36.04) (Ord. 1990-C-3, passed 9-13-90)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to modify state requirements, see KRS 189.920(3)
§ 36.05 POLICE DEPARTMENT POLICY MANUAL AND RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Police Department Policy Manual and Rules and Regulations, including,
but not limited to, the official policy manual, the law enforcement code of
ethics, domestic violence law enforcement policy, juvenile custody procedures,
and pepper spray use and reporting procedures, are hereby adopted by reference
into this code of ordinances as if fully set forth herein. Copies of these
policies, rules and regulations, as amended from time to time, shall be kept on
file and be available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
(2002 Code, § 36.05)
CHAPTER 37: CITY POLICIES
Section
37.01   Accommodation policy; disabled individuals
37.02   Code of ethics adopted by reference
37.03   Personnel policies adopted by reference
§ 37.01 ACCOMMODATION POLICY; DISABLED INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   This Accommodation Policy is to certify alternative means for the city
to provide information, materials, and assistance to disabled individuals.
   (B)   In lieu of disabled individuals using City Hall, the city offers the
following alternatives:
      (1)   An individual may request that an officer of the city come to his
or her residence;
      (2)   An individual may request that an officer of the city meet them at
a designated place; or
      (3)   The city may make arrangement to provide service at a building that
meets disability requirements.
   (C)   It is the intent of the city with these accommodations to ensure that
disabled individuals will not be denied information, materials and assistance
as desired.
(2002 Code, § 37.01) (Ord. passed 5- -1996)
§ 37.02 CODE OF ETHICS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The code of ethics of the city, as adopted by Ord. 1994-C-4, is hereby
adopted by reference into this code of ordinances as if set forth fully herein.
Copies of the ordinance shall be kept on file and be available for public
inspection in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(2002 Code, § 37.02) (Ord. 1994-C-4, passed - -1994)
§ 37.03 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The classification plan, compensation plan and policies and procedures
attached to Ord. 1998-C9-8-1, passed 8-12-1998, are hereby adopted by reference
into this code of ordinances as if fully set forth herein as the system of
personnel administration for the city. Copies of the ordinance, as amended from
time to time, shall be kept on file and be available for public inspection in
the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The classification plan, compensation plan and policies and procedures
may be waived, altered or suspended only by ordinance.
(2002 Code, § 37.03) (Ord. 1998-C9-8-1, passed 8-12-1998)
CHAPTER 38: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
38.01   Establishment
38.02   Area of jurisdiction
38.03   Membership
38.04   Meetings
38.05   Open records
38.06   Staff
38.07   Power and duties
Code Enforcement Board
38.20   Definitions
38.21   Creation and membership
38.22   Powers
38.23   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation
38.24   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum; alternate Board members
38.25   Jurisdiction
38.26   Powers of the Code Enforcement officers
38.27   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
38.28   Enforcement proceedings
38.29   Hearing; notice and final order
38.30   Legal counsel
38.31   Appeals; final judgement
38.32   Fine schedule
38.33   Liens; fines; charges; fees
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 38.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Commission known as the Planning Commission.
The Planning Commission is formed following an interrogation of the county and
cities within the county to determine whether a joint Planning Commission would
be successful. The result of the interrogation conducted on ___ indicated that
the establishing of a joint Planning Commission would be unsuccessful and as
such pursuant to KRS 100.117, a Planning Commission for the city is hereby
established.
   (B)   Per KRS 100.113, the city, acting through the Planning Commission,
shall begin planning operations.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed - -)
§ 38.02 AREA OF JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall have jurisdiction within the area of
annexed property creating the city. Any subsequent annexations by the city,
increasing their territorial jurisdiction, will also be covered by the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   The Planning Commission, through a request made by the City Council,
may request extraterritorial jurisdiction for the purposes of subdivision
regulation and/or any other regulations up to five miles beyond all points of
the city’s boundaries. The extraterritorial jurisdiction will be at the consent
of the County Fiscal Court and will not extend beyond the county boundary and/
or state boundary.
   (C)   Any conflict for extraterritorial jurisdiction with any other planning
unit shall be resolved per KRS 100.131.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed - -)
§ 38.03 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Mayor of the city shall appoint residents of the city as members
to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The City Council shall approve the appointments made by the Mayor.
   (C)   The initial appointments will be on staggered terms as follows.
      (1)   Each Planning Commission member shall be appointed to a four-year
term, except for the initial term.
      (2)   The initial appointment by the Mayor confirmed by City Council
shall be on a staggered basis as follows: one member four-year term, one member
three-year term, one member two-year term and two members one-year term.
   (D)   Where extraterritorial jurisdiction is consented to by the county, the
county will be provided one member to serve on the Planning Commission. The
member shall be appointed by the County Judge Executive and approved by Fiscal
Court.
   (E)   Vacancies within the Planning Commission shall be filled within 60
days by the Mayor and City Council.
      (1)   If the Mayor or City Council fails to act within the time provided,
the Planning Commission may fill the vacancy.
      (2)   When a vacancy occurs, other than through the expiration of term of
office, it shall be filled for the remainder of the term remaining.
   (F)   The removal of a member of the Planning Commission shall be by the
Mayor and approved by the City Council and should follow the procedure as
outlined in KRS Chapter 100.157.
   (G)   The members of the Planning Commission shall serve without
compensation for their services rendered.
   (H)   Each member of the Planning Commission before entering their duties
shall be administered the oath of office as provided by the laws of the
commonwealth.
   (I)   The Planning Commission shall elect on an annual basis, a Chairperson
and a Vice-Chairperson.
      (1)   The Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be citizen members.
      (2)   A citizen member is defined as a member of the Commission who is
not an elected official.
      (3)   Each citizen member shall be eligible for re-election at the
expiration of their term.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed - -)
§ 38.04 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall conduct regular meetings as it deems
necessary for the transaction of business. The Planning Commission shall hold
at least six regular meetings annually. The schedule for regular meetings shall
be set-forth and expressed in the by-laws of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall establish an annual meeting date where
the office elections will be held. The annual meeting date will be specified in
the Planning Commission’s by-laws which will be adopted during a regularly
scheduled Planning Commission meeting.
   (C)   Special meetings: any special meeting called by the Chairperson, shall
be given written notice to all members as well as the media within seven days
prior to the meeting date. The notice shall contain the date, time and place
and subjects which will be discussed.
   (D)   Regular meetings: date, time and place as set forth in the by-laws of
the Planning Commission shall not be considered special meetings.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall adopt by-laws for the transaction of
business and keep minutes and records of the proceedings including regulations,
transactions, findings and determinations and the number of votes for and
against each question.
   (F)   If any member is absent or disqualified from voting, the minutes shall
reflect the absence or disqualification.
   (G)   Any member of a Planning Commission who has a direct or indirect
financial interest in the outcome of the request before the body shall disclose
the nature of the interest and shall disqualify himself or herself from voting
on the question and he or she shall not be counted for the purpose of a quorum.
   (H)   A simple majority of the total membership of the Planning Commission
shall constitute a quorum.
   (I)   A simple majority vote of the members present where there is a
properly constituted quorum shall be necessary to transact any business of the
Commission. An exception is that a vote of the simple majority of the total
membership shall be necessary for adoption or amendment to the comprehensive
plan.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed - -)
§ 38.05 OPEN RECORDS.
   A transcript of the entire proceeding of any of the Planning Commission
shall be provided if requested by a party at the expense of the requesting
party and the transcript shall constitute the record of the meeting.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed - -)
§ 38.06 STAFF.
   The Planning Commission, upon approval by the City Council may employ staff
or contract with planners as it deems necessary to accomplish assigned duties
as outlined in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed - -)
§ 38.07 POWER AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor and/or City Council may assign to the Planning Commission,
any powers or duties or functions relating to urban renewal, public housing or
community development.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall have general powers and duties and
responsibilities necessary to carry out its functions in accordance with this
subchapter and KRS Chapter 100.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed - -)
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 38.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801
through 65.8839, and as the administrative body created and acting under the
authority of KRS 82.700 et seq., the Local Government Nuisance Code Enforcement
Act.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of a local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinance by the city legislative body
which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   PERSON. An individual, or a partnership, an association, a corporation or
other legal entity.
   VIOLATOR. An individual, a partnership, an association, or a corporation, or
other legal entity.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 6-11-2019; Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 38.21 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created pursuant to KRS 65.8801 through KRS 65.8839, within
the city, a Code Enforcement Board, which shall be composed of five members,
all of whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at least one year
prior to the creation of the Board and shall reside there throughout the term
in office.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 6-11-2019; Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 38.22 POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance the violation of which constitutes an offense under any provision of
the Kentucky Revised Statutes, including specifically, any provision of the
Kentucky Penal Code and any moving motor vehicle offense.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 6-11-2019; Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 38.23 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the
executive authority of the city by executive order, subject to the approval of
the legislative body.
   (B)   (1)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be
as follows:
         (a)   One member appointed to a one-year term;
         (b)   Two members appointed to a two-year term; and
         (c)   Two members appointed to a three-year term.
      (2)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (C)   The executive authority may appoint, subject to the approval of the
legislative body, two alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement Board
in the absence of regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of the
qualifications and shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply to
regular members of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (D)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the executive authority by
executive order, subject to approval of the legislative body, within 60 days of
the vacancy. If the vacancy is not filled within that time period, the
remaining Code Board members shall fill the vacancy, by an order of the Board.
   (E)   A Code Enforcement Board member may be removed from office by the
executive authority for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty,
including, but not limited to prolonged unexcused absences. The executive
authority must submit a written statement to the member and the legislative
body setting forth the reasons for removal.
   (F)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board must, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution.
   (G)   Board members may be reimbursed customary expenses or receive
compensation or both as authorized by the City Council.
   (H)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board may hold any elected or
nonelected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 6-11-2019; Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 38.24 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM; ALTERNATE BOARD MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Board shall annually elect a Chairperson and Secretary from among
its members. The Chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member
of the Board.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held, as
needed, on the first Tuesday of every month at 5:30 p.m. at Guthrie City Hall.
Meetings other than those regularly scheduled shall be special meetings held in
accordance with the requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held
in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and the Kentucky Open
Meetings Act.
   (D)   Three of the five members shall constitute a quorum.
   (E)   The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the Board shall be
necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (F)   Any member who has any direct or indirect financial or personal
interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the nature of the interest
and shall disqualify himself or herself from voting on the matter and shall not
be counted for the purposes of establishing a quorum.
   (G)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
   (H)   Pursuant to KRS 65.8815(6), clerical and administrative support may be
provided by the City Clerk’s office within the limitations provided by the City
Council.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 6-11-2019; Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-10-2020; Ord. 2022-2,
passed 1-11-2022; Ord. 2023-7, passed - -)
§ 38.25 JURISDICTION.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have jurisdiction to enforce and shall
enforce those city ordinances and code provisions which specifically provide
for Code Board enforcement.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 6-11-2019; Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 38.26 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   The city's Code Enforcement Officers shall have the authority to take all
actions necessary to enforce all ordinances which fall under this chapter; such
authority shall include, but not be limited to, the following powers and
duties:
   (A)   To enter upon private property, only after receiving written approval
from the property owner or a tenant thereof or a search warrant, for the
purpose of inspection or enforcement of this subchapter, after both personal
contact and a courtesy letter have been sent, neither of which produces a
correction of the violation from the owner or responsible person after a
reasonable period of time, and further inspection appears to be appropriate and
necessary due to the failure to correct the discrepancy or violation of the
subchapter about which the owner or other responsible person has been notified,
and given reasonable time to correct;
   (B)   To apply for and obtain a search warrant, if necessary;
   (C)   To issue notices of violation and warnings regarding those violations;
   (D)   To exercise discretion in allowing those who violate ordinances
periods of time in which to cure the violations and comply with the ordinances;
   (E)   To monitor property for compliance with ordinances;
   (F)   To file a notice of lien against real estate;
      (G)   To cause the lien to be enforced; and
   (H)   To do all other things and take all other actions reasonably necessary
to carry out the intent and purpose of, and to enforce, this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 6-11-2019; Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 38.27 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings;
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction;
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any Code
Enforcement Officer;
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The chairman shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony;
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision, which the Board is authorized
to enforce, specifically including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Abatement of violation. If the owner of property in violation of
any city ordinance enforced under this subchapter fails to properly cure or
remedy the violation within the time prescribed in the notice of violation or
within the time given by this subchapter following the entry of an order by the
Code Enforcement Board, whichever is later, then the city, in its discretion
and without obligation, may enter upon the real estate and take such action as
it deems appropriate to cure the violation and abate the nuisance. Such action
may include, but not be limited to, the cutting or removing of grass and weeds,
the removal of trash, debris, garbage, commercial refuse, building material,
waste, junk, litter, overgrowth vegetation, dead and deteriorated trees and
other matter constituting a violation;
      (2)   Assertion of lien. The city shall have the right to assert a lien
against the real estate for the reasonable value of labor, materials, and
equipment used in remedying the situation, together with all civil penalties,
together with all attorneys' fees, costs, and expenses incurred by the city as
a result of enforcing any ordinance and the lien. The affidavit of the Code
Enforcement Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the
lien and the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to the ordinance, and shall
be recorded in the Office of the County Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all
persons from the time of its recording and shall bear interest thereafter at
the rate of 12% per annum until paid. The lien created shall be superior to and
have priority over all other liens, except state, county, school board and city
taxes, and may be enforced by judicial proceedings, In addition to enforcement
of the lien described above, the owners of real estate upon which a lien has
been attached pursuant to this subchapter shall be jointly and severally liable
for the amount of the lien, including all interest, civil penalties, attorneys'
fees incurred by the city, expenses of litigation, court costs, and other
charges, and the city may bring a civil action against any owners and shall
have the remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owed.
      (3)   Other remedies. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the city
from pursuing any other remedy available, including, without limitation,
applying for injunctive relief or correcting the violation itself, after
notice, as provided in this chapter or any ordinance.
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 6-11-2019; Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 38.28 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings before the Code Enforcement Board shall only
be initiated by the issuance of a notice and/or citation by a Code Enforcement
Officer;
   (B)   Service of the citation upon the offender shall be made by a Code
Enforcement Officer and shall be effectuated in the following manner:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued;
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail of the
United States Postal Service to the resident, tenant, occupant, other violator,
or the last known property owner of record as listed in the Todd County
Property Valuation Office;
      (4)   By any other manner prescribed for the service of a summons under
CR 4.01 to 4.10, Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure, or RCr 2.10, Kentucky Rules
of Criminal Procedure.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) below, if a Code Enforcement
Officer believes, based on his or her personal observation or investigation,
that a person has violated a city ordinance, he or she may issue a notice of
code violation to the offender allowing the offender a specified period of time
to remedy the violation without fine. The notice of violation may be delivered
to the alleged violator by personal service or by regular, first-class mail of
the United States Postal Service. If the offender fails or refuses to remedy
the violation within the time specified, the Code Enforcement Officer is
authorized to issue a citation;
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from taking
immediate action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason
to believe the violation presents a threat to public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible;
   (E)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (4)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (5)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (6)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (7)   The civil fine that will be imposed for the violation if the person
does not contest the citation and elects to pay the minimum fine set forth in §
38.32(A);
      (8)   The maximum civil fine set forth in §
38.32(B) that may be imposed if the person elects to contest the citation and
requests a hearing before the Board;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the minimum
civil fine or to contest the citation and request a hearing;
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the minimum civil fine
set forth in the citation or to contest the citation and request a hearing
before the Board, within the time allowed, the person shall be deemed to have
waived the right to a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board to contest the
citation, that the determination the violation was committed shall be final,
and the civil fine set forth in § 38.32(C) shall be imposed.
      (11)   A statement that if the person requests a hearing before the Board
within the time allowed, but fails to appear before the Board at the time set
for the hearing, that the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing before the Code Enforcement Board to contest the citation, the
determination the violation was committed shall be final, and the civil fine
set forth in § 38.32(C) shall be imposed.
   (F)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering a copy of the
citation along with proof of proper service to the Guthrie City Clerk, who
shall provide a copy to the Chairperson of the Code Enforcement Board;
   (G)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within ten calendar days of the date of issuance by either paying the
minimum civil fine or requesting, in writing, to the Code Enforcement Board, in
the care of the City Clerk, a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board to
contest the citation. If response to the citation is not received by the Code
Enforcement Board, in the care of the City Clerk, within ten days, the person
shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination
that a violation was committed shall be considered final; and
   (H)   If the alleged violator does not pay the minimum fine set forth in the
citation and does not contest the citation by requesting a hearing within the
time prescribed, the Code Enforcement Board shall enter a final order
determining the violation was committed and impose the civil fine set forth in
§ 38.32(C). A copy of the final order shall be served on the person guilty of
the violation.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 6-11-2019; Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 38.29 HEARING; NOTICE AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board shall
schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven calendar days before the date of the hearing, the
Code Enforcement Board, through the City Clerk, shall notify the requester of
the date, time, and place of the hearing. The notice may be given by certified
mail, return receipt requested; by personal delivery; or by leaving the notice
at the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein
who is 18 years of age and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   Any person requesting a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board who
fails to appear at the time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to
have waived the right to a hearing to contest the citation and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be final. The Code
Enforcement Board shall enter a final order determining the violation was
committed and shall impose the civil fine set forth in §
38.32(C). A copy of the final order shall be served upon the person guilty of
the violation.
   (D)   All testimony shall be taken under oath and recorded. Testimony shall
be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged violator, and any
witnesses to the violation offered by the code enforcement officer or alleged
violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due process
shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   At the hearing, the Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the
evidence, determine whether a violation was committed. If it determines no
violation was committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If
it determines a violation was committed, an order shall be issued upholding the
citation and the Code Enforcement Board may order the offender to pay a civil
fine in an amount up to the maximum authorized by ordinance, or may order the
offender to remedy a continuing violation within a specified time to avoid the
imposition of a fine, or both, as authorized by ordinance. The final order may
impose a civil fine for each day the violation continues to exist after a given
time to remedy the violation. The final order shall inform the person of their
responsibility to notify the Code Enforcement Officer that the violation has
been remedied.
   (F)   Every final order of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions of the Board, and the
date the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation. If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered to that person by certified mail,
return receipt requested; by personal delivery; or by leaving a copy of the
order at that person's usual place of residence with any individual residing
therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the order.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 6-11-2019; Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 38.30 LEGAL COUNSEL.
   Each case that is the subject of a hearing may be presented by an attorney
selected by the city or by a Code Enforcement Officer for the city. An attorney
may either be counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may present cases before
the Code Enforcement Board, but in no case shall the same attorney serve in
both capacities.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 6-11-2019; Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 38.31 APPEALS: FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from any final order of the Code Enforcement Board may be
made to the Todd District Court within 30 calendar days of the date the order
is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a
copy of the Code Enforcement Board's order in the same manner as any civil
action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) above, the Code Enforcement Board's
order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 6-11-2019; Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 38.32 FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the Code Enforcement Board
shall be subject to the following schedule of civil fines:
   (A)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the person may elect to pay the minimum
penalty set forth in this division (A):
Chapter/Section Violated First Offense Second Offense Third and Other Offenses
Chapter/Section Violated  First Offense Second Offense Third and Other Offenses
90.24 Animals             $25           $50            $100
91.41 Streets and         $25           $50            $100
Sidewalk Obstruction
91.42 Materials on Street $25           $50            $100
or Sidewalk
92.03(B)(1) Dangerous     $50           $100           $150
Trees
92.03(B)(2) Accumulation  $25           $50            $100
of Rubbish
92.03(B)(3) Storage of    $50           $100           $150
Explosives
92.03(B)(4) Weeds and     $25           $50            $100
Grass
92.03(B)(5) Open Wells    $50           $100           $150
92.03(B)(6) Trees and     $25           $50            $100
Shrubbery
92.03(B)(7) Keeping of    $25           $50            $100
Animals
92.03(B)(8) Junk; Scrap   $25           $50            $100
Metal; motor vehicles
92.03(B)(9) Dilapidated   $200          $350           $500
Structures
95 Cemeteries             $25           $50            $100
110 Occupational License  $25           $50            $100
Taxes
114 Yard Sale Permit      $5            $10            $20
Required
153 Zoning                $25           $50            $100
Property Maintenance Code $25           $50            $100
 
   (B)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Board is
required, the following maximum penalties may be imposed at the discretion of
the Code Board:
Chapter/Section Violated First Offense Second Offense Third and Other Offenses
Chapter/Section Violated  First Offense Second Offense Third and Other Offenses
90.24 Animals             $50           $100           $200
91.41 Streets and         $50           $100           $200
Sidewalk Obstruction
91.42 Materials on Street $50           $100           $200
or Sidewalk
92.03(B)(1) Dangerous     $100          $200           $300
Trees
92.03(B)(2) Accumulation  $50           $100           $200
of Rubbish
92.03(B)(3) Storage of    $100          $200           $300
Explosives
92.03(B)(4) Weeds and     $50           $100           $200
Grass
92.03(B)(5) Open Wells    $100          $200           $300
92.03(B)(6) Trees and     $50           $100           $200
Shrubbery
92.03(B)(7) Keeping of    $50           $100           $200
Animals
92.03(B)(8) Junk; Scrap   $50           $100           $200
Metal; motor vehicles
92.03(B)(9) Dilapidated   $50           $100           $200
Structures
95 Cemeteries             $50           $100           $200
110 Occupational License  $50           $100           $200
Taxes
114 Yard Sale permit      $10           $20            $40
Required
153 Zoning                $50           $100           $200
Property Maintenance Code $50           $100           $200
 
   (C)   If the person charged with a violation does not elect to pay the
minimum civil fine and does not contest the citation by requesting a hearing
within the time prescribed, or, if the alleged violator requests a hearing
before the Board and fails to appear at the hearing, the Code Enforcement Board
shall enter a final order determining the violation was committed and impose
the civil fine set forth below:
Chapter/Section Violated First Offense Second Offense Third and Other Offenses
90.24 Animals            $50           $100           $200
Chapter/Section Violated  First Offense Second Offense Third and Other Offenses
90.24 Animals             $50           $100           $200
91.41 Streets and         $50           $100           $200
Sidewalk Obstruction
91.42 Materials on Street $50           $100           $200
or Sidewalk
92.03(B)(1) Dangerous     $100          $200           $300
Trees
92.03(B)(2) Accumulation  $50           $100           $200
of Rubbish
92.03(B)(3) Storage of    $100          $200           $300
Explosives
92.03(B)(4) Weeds and     $50           $100           $200
Grass
92.03(B)(5) Open Wells    $100          $200           $300
92.03(B)(6) Trees and     $50           $100           $200
Shrubbery
92.03(B)(7) Keeping of    $50           $100           $200
Animals
92.03(B)(8) Junk; Scrap   $50           $100           $200
Metal; motor vehicles
92.03(B)(9) Dilapidated   $200          $300           $400
Structures
95 Cemeteries             $50           $100           $200
110 Occupational License  $50           $100           $200
Taxes
114 Yard Sale permit      $10           $20            $40
Required
153 Zoning                $50           $100           $200
Property Maintenance Code $50           $100           $200
 
   (D)   Upon the fourth offense for the same violation, if the Code
Enforcement Board finds that a violation did exist, the Board shah enter a
final order imposing a daily fine in the amount set forth in division (C) above
for third and other offenses, which shall accrue up to a maximum amount of
$5,000. The daily fine shall begin on the date the final order is issued until
the day the Code Enforcement Officer declares the violation cured. It shall be
the responsibility of the property owner to request an inspection by the Code
Enforcement Officer to certify the violation has been cured.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 6-11-2019; Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 38.33 LIENS; FINES; CHARGES; FEES.
   (A)   If the penalty is unpaid, the city shall possess a lien on property
owned by the person found by a final non-appealable order of the Code
Enforcement Board, or by a final judgment of the court, to have committed a
violation of a city ordinance for all fines assessed for the violation and for
all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of
the subchapter.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid at the rate allowed by law.
   (C)   The lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A), the person found
to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the amount
of all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred
by the city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance. The city may
bring a civil action against the person and shall have the same remedies as
provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 6-11-2019; Ord. 2020-8, passed 11-10-2020)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
   
50.   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
   
51.   SEWER USE
   
52.   WATER
   
53.   GAS
   
54.   GROUNDWATER
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
Section
Compactor Service
50.01   Procedure established for solid waste disposal
50.02   Fees for city residents; availability of service
50.03   Fees for authorized users outside of city
50.04   Commercial users; fees
50.05   Prohibited waste disposal
50.06   Contract for pickup and disposal of waste
Administration
50.20   Collection of garbage mandatory
50.21   Department of Sanitation
50.22   Authority for; duration
50.23   Service fee
50.24   Individual agreements for business establishments
50.25   Adoption of regulations and pickup schedule; notice
50.26   Hauling waste over streets prohibited
50.27   Dumping or depositing waste prohibited
50.28   Burning garbage prohibited
50.29   Violation of department regulations prohibited
 
50.99   Penalty
COMPACTOR SERVICE
§ 50.01 PROCEDURE ESTABLISHED FOR SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL.
   A compactor unit shall be placed in operation for the disposal of solid
waste, service fees shall be fixed, provisions shall be made for the collection
of the fees, and penalties shall be set for the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-6, passed 6-29-2022)
§ 50.02 FEES FOR CITY RESIDENTS; AVAILABILITY OF SERVICE.
   For disposal of solid waste materials in the city compactor, a monthly
service fee of $1 shall be levied against and taxed to each sewer user within
the city. Said service shall be added to and become a part of the amount due on
each water and/or sewer statement, to be paid on or before the tenth day of the
month following the month for which same is due. A late charge of 10% of the
delinquent service fee shall be added to all monthly service fees paid later
than set out above. The compactor unit service shall be made available to any
person or household who resides in the city limits for the disposal of his, her
or their ordinary household residential solid waste material.
(Ord. 2022-6, passed 6-29-2022)
§ 50.03 FEES FOR AUTHORIZED USERS OUTSIDE OF CITY.
   Any person or household residing outside of the city who is a customer of
the City Water Department or who is a resident of Todd County may dispose of
ordinary household residential solid waste material upon payment of a fee of
$25 per year, plus those fees set forth in §
50.23(D). Only persons who are specifically authorized by this chapter to
dispose of waste material shall be allowed to do so.
(Ord. 2022-6, passed 6-29-2022; Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 50.04 COMMERCIAL USERS; FEES.
   Commercial businesses, offices, restaurants, or other profit or non-profit
organizations located within the limits of the city may have use of the
compactor unit to dispose of their ordinary solid waste materials. Commercial
businesses located outside the city but which are customers of the City Water
Department may have use of the compactor unit to dispose of their ordinary
solid waste materials upon payment of a fee of $25 per year. Other disposal
fees apply to outside commercial users who do not pay the yearly fee.
(Ord. 2022-6, passed 6-29-2022; Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 50.05 PROHIBITED WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The compactor unit shall not be made available for disposal of
manufacturing or industrial waste materials or other prohibited materials. In
addition, no waste material shall be disposed of which is prohibited by state
or federal law or which may be considered hazardous material or which is
prohibited by the rules of any waste disposal contractor with which the city
has contracted to dispose of waste material. Prohibited waste shall include,
but is not limited to asbestos, chemicals in liquid form, tires, refrigerators/
freezers, brush or tree limbs, debris from the destruction or remodeling of
buildings, roofing material or dead animals. The attendant on duty may, in his
or her sole discretion, accept or refuse any other waste item(s).
   (B)   No person or business shall have the right to the use of the compactor
unit for disposal of wastes unless that person or business resides or is
located within the city limits or is a customer of the City Water Department
and pays the designated fee.
(Ord. 2022-6, passed 6-29-2022; Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 CONTRACT FOR PICKUP AND DISPOSAL OF WASTE.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute a contract or
contracts on behalf of the city for the pickup and disposal of solid waste in
accordance with the provisions of KRS Chapter 211, the regulations of the
Kentucky Department of Health, this chapter and the regulations of the city.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 5-23-2018; Ord. 2022-6, passed 6-29-2022)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 50.20 COLLECTION OF GARBAGE MANDATORY.
   The collection, removal and disposal of all garbage, rubbish, refuse and
waste matter is hereby declared to be compulsory and universal within the city
and shall be regulated by the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 5-23-2018)
§ 50.21 DEPARTMENT OF SANITATION.
   The Department of Sanitation is hereby established, and the Mayor shall
appoint a Commissioner of Sanitation, who shall serve for such term as the
Mayor shall designate.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 5-23-2018)
§ 50.22 AUTHORITY FOR; DURATION.
   (A)   The city shall, by competitive bid, enter into a contract with a
responsible person, firm or corporation to carry out the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The solid waste pickup and disposal contract shall be commenced and
become effective for such period of time and under such terms and conditions as
determined by the Commissioner of Sanitation and approved by the City Council.
Renegotiations or extensions or renewals of contracts involving any increase in
cost to the city or the service fee charged shall be approved by the City
Council. All contracts shall be made subject to the contractor securing and
retaining all necessary state permits.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 5-23-2018)
§ 50.23 SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   Monthly fee. For pickup and disposal of solid waste materials, a
monthly service fee of an amount equal to $1.35 over the city’s per unit cost
is established for each residential unit within the city and for each water
and/or sewer customer outside of the city, including each apartment or mobile
home or any structure an individual or family may occupy as a dwelling place.
The monthly service fee shall be levied against and taxed to each residential
unit. The service fee shall be added to and become a part of the amount due on
each residential water or sewer statement to be paid on or before the tenth day
of the month following the month in which the bill is issued. A late charge of
10% shall be added to all monthly service fees paid later than set out above on
or after the tenth day of each following month. Garbage collection customers
may opt out of the garbage collection service by expressly doing so at Guthrie
City Hall on a form proscribed by City Hall staff.
   (B)   Multiple residential units. If more than one residential unit is
billed for water or sewer service on one monthly statement, the number of units
so served shall be so multiplied by the monthly service fee to determine the
net amount due on such water or sewer statement, and the gross amount shall be
paid on or before the tenth day of the month following the month in which the
bill is issued.
   (C)   Compactor service. The city will continue to operate the compactor
unit previously offered to the residents of the city, pursuant to such days of
operation, charges and other regulations as may be adopted by the city from
time to time by municipal order.
   (D)   Other disposal fees. For large items, the city shall impose the
following fee schedule that shall be applicable to all users of the city
disposal facility, regardless of residency:
      (1)   Large barrels: $5;
      (2)   Small furniture (tables, chairs and the like): $10;
      (3)   Large furniture (sofas, recliners and the like): $15;
      (4)   Appliances and mattresses: $35;
      (5)   Pickup load: $20;
      (6)   Trailer load (cannot exceed 6 feet by 10 feet by 2 feet): $40.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 5-23-2018; Ord. 2022-4, passed 5-23-2022; Ord. 2022-6,
passed 6-29-2022; Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-9-2023; Ord. 2024-8, passed 9-17-2024)
§ 50.24 INDIVIDUAL AGREEMENTS FOR BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Factories, restaurants, stores, services, organizations, offices and
all other business establishments within the city shall arrange for solid waste
disposal through individual agreements with the approved contractors.
   (B)   Individual contracts for the pickup and disposal of all solid waste
shall comply with the provisions of this chapter, the regulations of the
Department of Sanitation and all applicable laws and regulations of the state.
   (C)   The contractors shall negotiate a fair fee with each commercial
customer within the city limits based on frequency of pickups, amount and type
of solid waste, and other factors affecting cost to contractors, If the
contractors and the commercial customer cannot agree as to what a fair fee for
both shall be, the Sanitation Commissioner or a representative of the city to
be appointed by the Mayor shall act as a mediator between the parties in
disagreement and his or her decision shall be binding on the parties involved.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 5-23-2018)
§ 50.25 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS AND PICKUP SCHEDULE; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Commissioner of Sanitation shall, with the assistance of such city
officers and employees as designated by the Mayor and with the approval of the
Mayor and the City Council, adopt regulations for the storing, picking up and
disposal of solid waste material, including, but not limited to, the following;
type, size and number of containers to be used by each residential unit and
commercial customer; minimum sanitary standards as to storage of solid waste at
all times; and rules as to placing solid waste containers outside of business
structures at the side or at the rear of the main building.
   (B)   The contractor shall set up a regular weekly schedule of pickups with
one regular pickup per week from each residential unit and an agreed number of
pickups per week from each commercial customer.
      (1)   The pickup schedule shall be approved by the Sanitation Department,
but extra pickups shall be arranged between the residential unit owner or the
commercial customer by agreement with the contractor, and the city shall not be
responsible for collection.
      (2)   All residents and users of the curbside pickup service shall have
their garbage container at curbside ready to be picked up by the contractor
prior to the time set forth in the pickup schedule and shall return the empty
container from curbside to its regular place of position on the customer’s
premises by the close of day of pickup.
   (C)   The city shall arrange and pay for notice of the regulations adopted
and any amendments thereto. The pickup contractor shall arrange and pay for
proper notice as to pickup.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 5-23-2018)
§ 50.26 HAULING WASTE OVER STREETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to haul any solid waste material over the streets of
the city in an uncovered vehicle or in a vehicle body from which material leaks
or escapes through cracks or other openings in the floor, ends or sides of the
body.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 5-23-2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to throw, dump or allow any solid waste material in any
manner to be deposited or allowed to accumulate upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, waterway, right-of-way or elsewhere within the city.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 5-23-2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.28 BURNING GARBAGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to burn or attempt to burn any garbage, rubbish or
other solid waste material that any ordinary fire in a home-type incinerator
will not completely destroy, such as bones, cans or bottles. This provision
shall not prohibit the burning of trash, paper or leaves on one’s own premises,
so long as such burning does not create a nuisance to neighbors or the public
in general.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 5-23-2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.29 VIOLATION OF DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to violate any provision of the regulations of the
Department of Sanitation.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 5-23-2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, association, corporation or other entity convicted of any
violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not
less than $10 nor more than $100. In cases of repeated violations, the violator
may be enjoined by a court of proper jurisdiction by action filed by the city
or any citizen.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 5-23-2018; Ord. 2022-4, passed 5-23-2022; Ord. 2022-6,
passed 6-29-2022)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
51.01   Purpose and policy
51.02   Administration
51.03   Abbreviations
51.04   Definitions
Sewer Use Requirements; Enforcement
51.15   Prohibited discharge standards
51.16   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
51.17   State pretreatment standards
51.18   Local limits
51.19   City’s right of revision
51.20   Dilution
51.21   Pretreatment of wastewater
51.22   Individual wastewater discharge permits
51.23   Individual wastewater permit issuance
51.24   Reporting requirements
51.25   Compliance monitoring
51.26   Confidential information
51.27   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
51.28   Administrative enforcement remedies
51.29   Judicial enforcement remedies
51.30   Supplemental enforcement action
51.31   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
51.32   Wastewater treatment rates
51.33   Pretreatment charges and fees
 
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly
owned treatment works for the city, and enables the city to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.) and the general pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
      (3)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly owned treatment works;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the publicly owned treatment works;
and
      (6)   To enable the city to comply with its national pollutant discharge
elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works is
subject.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the publicly owned treatment
works. The ordinance authorizes the issuance of individual wastewater discharge
permits; provides for monitoring, compliance and enforcement activities;
establishes administrative review procedures; requires user reporting; and
provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs
resulting from the program established herein.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Superintendent shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or
duties imposed upon the Superintendent may be delegated by the Superintendent
to a duly authorized city employee.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.03 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings.
   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
   BMP. Best Management Practices.
   BMR. Baseline monitoring report.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CIU. Categorical industrial user.
   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
   EPA. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
   gpd. gallons per day.
   IU. Industrial user.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NPDES. National pollutant discharge elimination system.
   NSCIU. Non-significant categorical industrial user.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
   RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq.
   SIU. Significant industrial user.
   SNC. Significant noncompliance.
   TSS. Total suspended solids.
   U.S.C.  United States Code.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   AUTHORIZED OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) above, may
designate a duly authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the city.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs. Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in § 51.15(A) and (B) (40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and
(b)). BMPs include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices
to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or
drainage from raw materials storage.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with §
307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) that apply to a
specific category of users and that appear in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter
N, Parts 405 through 471.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CITY. The City of Guthrie, Kentucky or the City Council of Guthrie,
Kentucky.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize
all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The city.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division Director,
the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge that is not a “new source.”
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample that is taken from a wastestream without regard to the
flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source.
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the city’s NPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any
more stringent state or local regulations: § 405 of the Clean Water Act, being
33 U.S.C. § 1345; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, including Title II commonly
referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), being 33
U.S.C. § 1345; any state regulations contained in any state sludge management
plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 6941 through 6949; the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et
seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.; and
the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et
seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the city
upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and specific
discharge prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of all “daily discharges” measured during a
calendar month divided by the number of “daily discharges” measured during that
month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of “daily discharges”
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all “daily discharges” measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of “daily discharges” measured
during that month.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(c) that will be applicable to such
source if such standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that
section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of divisions (1)(b) or (1)(c) above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a new source as defined under this division (3) has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this division (3)(b).
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the city’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local governmental
entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical Pretreatment Standards, and Local Limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in § 51.15.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by the city. This
definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage,
treatment, recycling and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid
nature and any conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations and the like).
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). 
      (1)   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
or
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the city on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration,
which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
51.15. A SLUG DISCHARGE is any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature,
including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass
through, or in any other way violate the POTW’s regulations, local limits or
permit conditions.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the city to supervise the operation
of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by
this chapter. The term also means a DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE
SUPERINTENDENT.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that
floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other
liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
   USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW which
is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS; ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.15 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific Prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 9.0, or otherwise
causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference;
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW;
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the treatment plant resulting in Interference, but in no case
wastewater which causes the temperature at the introduction into the treatment
plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (6)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the Superintendent in accordance with §
51.21(C);
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      (10)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating the city’s NPDES permit;
      (11)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (12)   Storm Water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Superintendent;
      (13)   Sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (14)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Superintendent in an individual wastewater discharge permit;
      (15)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail toxicity test; and
      (16)   Detergents, surface-active agents or other substances which that
might cause excessive foaming in the POTW.
   (C)   Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section.
Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section shall not be
processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to the POTW.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.16 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users must comply with the categorical pretreatment standards found at 40
C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405 through 471.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Superintendent may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with divisions (E) and (F) below.
   (B)   When the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the Superintendent
may convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of
pollutant discharged per day or effluent concentration for purposes of
calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual industrial users.
   (C)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   (D)   A CIU may obtain a net/gross adjustment to a categorical pretreatment
standard in accordance with the following paragraphs of this section.
      (1)   Categorical pretreatment standards may be adjusted to reflect the
presence of pollutants in the Industrial user’s intake water in accordance with
this section. Any industrial user wishing to obtain credit for intake
pollutants must make application to the city. Upon request of the industrial
user, the applicable standard will be calculated on a “net” basis (i.e.,
adjusted to reflect credit for pollutants in the intake water) if the
requirements of division (D)(2) below are met.
      (2)   Criteria.
         (a)   Either:
            1.   The applicable categorical pretreatment standards contained in
40 C.F.R. Subchapter N specifically provide that they shall be applied on a net
basis; or
            2.   The industrial user demonstrates that the control system it
proposes or uses to meet applicable categorical pretreatment standards would,
if properly installed and operated, meet the standards in the absence of
pollutants in the intake waters.
         (b)   Credit for generic pollutants such as biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD), total suspended solids (TSS) and oil and grease should not be granted
unless the industrial user demonstrates that the constituents of the generic
measure in the user’s effluent are substantially similar to the constituents of
the generic measure in the intake water or unless appropriate additional limits
are placed on process water pollutants either at the outfall or elsewhere.
         (c)   Credit shall be granted only to the extent necessary to meet the
applicable categorical pretreatment standard(s), up to a maximum value equal to
the influent value. Additional monitoring may be necessary to determine
eligibility for credits and compliance with standard(s) adjusted under this
section.
         (d)   Credit shall be granted only if the user demonstrates that the
intake water is drawn from the same body of water as that into which the POTW
discharges. The city may waive this requirement if it finds that no
environmental degradation will result.
   (E)   When a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms of
pollutant concentrations, an industrial user may request that the city convert
the limits to equivalent mass limits. The determination to convert
concentration limits to mass limits is within the discretion of the
Superintendent. The city may establish equivalent mass limits only if the
industrial user meets all the conditions set forth in divisions (E)(1)(a)
through (E)(1)(e) below.
      (1)   To be eligible for equivalent mass limits, the industrial user
must:
         (a)   Employ, or demonstrate that it will employ, water conservation
methods and technologies that substantially reduce water use during the term of
its individual wastewater discharge permit;
         (b)   Currently use control and treatment technologies adequate to
achieve compliance with the applicable categorical pretreatment standard, and
not have used dilution as a substitute for treatment;
         (c)   Provide sufficient information to establish the facility’s
actual average daily flow rate for all wastestreams, based on data from a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device, as well as the facility’s long-term
average production rate. Both the actual average daily flow rate and the long-
term average production rate must be representative of current operating
conditions;
         (d)   Not have daily flow rates, production levels or pollutant levels
that vary so significantly that equivalent mass limits are not appropriate to
control the discharge; and
         (e)   Have consistently complied with all applicable categorical
pretreatment standards during the period prior to the industrial user’s request
for equivalent mass limits.
      (2)   An industrial user subject to equivalent mass limits must:
         (a)   Maintain and effectively operate control and treatment
technologies adequate to achieve compliance with the equivalent mass limits;
         (b)   Continue to record the facility’s flow rates through the use of
a continuous effluent flow monitoring device;
         (c)   Continue to record the facility’s production rates and notify
the Superintendent whenever production rates are expected to vary by more than
20% from its baseline production rates determined in division (E)(1)(c) above.
Upon notification of a revised production rate, the Superintendent will
reassess the equivalent mass limit and revise the limit as necessary to reflect
changed conditions at the facility; and
         (d)   Continue to employ the same or comparable water conservation
methods and technologies as those implemented pursuant to division (E)(1)(a)
above so long as it discharges under an equivalent mass limit.
      (3)   When developing equivalent mass limits, the Superintendent:
         (a)   Will calculate the equivalent mass limit by multiplying the
actual average daily flow rate of the regulated process(es) of the industrial
user by the concentration-based daily maximum and monthly average standard for
the applicable categorical pretreatment standard and the appropriate unit
conversion factor;
         (b)   Upon notification of a revised production rate, will reassess
the equivalent mass limit and recalculate the limit as necessary to reflect
changed conditions at the facility; and
         (c)   May retain the same equivalent mass limit in subsequent
individual wastewater discharger permit terms if the industrial user’s actual
average daily flow rate was reduced solely as a result of the implementation of
water conservation methods and technologies, and the actual average daily flow
rates used in the original calculation of the equivalent mass limit were not
based on the use of dilution as a substitute for treatment pursuant to §
51.20. The industrial user must also be in compliance with §
51.31(C) regarding the prohibition of bypass.
   (F)   The Superintendent may convert the mass limits of the categorical
pretreatment standards of 40 C.F.R. parts 414, 419 and 455 to concentration
limits for purposes of calculating limitations applicable to individual
industrial users. The conversion is at the discretion of the Superintendent.
   (G)   Once included in its permit, the industrial user must comply with the
equivalent limitations developed in this section in lieu of the promulgated
categorical standards from which the equivalent limitations were derived.
   (H)   Many categorical pretreatment standards specify one limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum monthly average, or four-day average, limitations. Where
such standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure shall be
used in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent limitation.
   (I)   Any industrial user operating under a permit incorporating equivalent
mass or concentration limits calculated from a production-based standard shall
notify the Superintendent within two business days after the user has a
reasonable basis to know that the production level will significantly change
within the next calendar month. Any user not notifying the Superintendent of
such anticipated change will be required to meet the mass or concentration
limits in its permit that were based on the original estimate of the long term
average production rate.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.17 STATE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS
   Users must comply with state pretreatment standards codified at 401 KAR 5:
057.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.18 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The Superintendent is authorized to establish local limits pursuant to
40 C.F.R. § 403.5(c).
   (B)   The City of Guthrie is authorized to establish local limits pursuant
to 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(c). The following limitations are established for
characteristics of any wastewaters to be discharged into the municipal sewer
system subject to any compliance schedule as established in the industrial user
permit. All significant industrial users must comply with the applicable
limitations where they are more stringent than applicable state and/or federal
regulations. These local limits are established to protect against pass through
and interference. Additional and/or more stringent limits may be necessary if
any pass through and/or interference are detected. Best management practices
may be developed, or required by industry, to implement the prohibitions listed
in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) or within this chapter. Such BMPs shall be
considered local limits and pretreatment standards as determined by the city.
Parameter Maximum Daily Concentration
Parameter            Maximum Daily Concentration
pH                   5.5 to 9
Arsenic, total       0.12 mg/l
Cadmium, total       0.01 mg/l
Chromium, hexavalent 0.27 mg/l
Chromium, total      1.71 mg/l
Copper, total        0.30 mg/l
Cyanide, Amenable    0.10 mg/l
Lead, total          0.06 mg/l
Mercury, total       0.0004 mg/l
Nickel, total        0.62 mg/l
Selenium, total      0.07 mg/l
Silver               0.015 mg/l
Zinc                 1.97 mg/l
 
 
   (C)   The Superintendent may develop best management practices (BMPs), by
ordinance or in individual wastewater discharge permits, to implement local
limits and the requirements of §
51.15.
   (D)   (1)   Any water or wastes which have characteristics based on a 24-
hour composite sample, grab or a shorter period composite sample, if more
representative, that exceed the following normal maximum domestic wastewater
pollutant concentrations:
 
Parameter             Maximum Allowable Concentration Without Surcharges
Ammonia-nitrogen      25 mg/l
BOD                   300 mg/l
COD                   900 mg/l
Oil and grease, total 100 mg/l
Phosphorus, total     10 mg/l
TSS                   300 mg/l
 
      (2)   Any person discharging wastewater exceeding the maximum allowable
concentration as noted above, will be subject to a surcharge fee for each pound
loading over and above the set limit. Any other amenable constituents requiring
the addition of specific chemicals for proper treatment will also be subject to
surcharge as noted on the industrial user permit. Exceedance of the effluent
limits specified above shall not be deemed to constitute a violation of a
permit condition or this section if the appropriated surcharge fee is paid and
the discharge does not cause interference or pass through the POTW.
   (E)   Surcharge rates. The following surcharge rates shall apply for each
pound of loading in excess of the concentrations above:
 
Parameter                    Rate
BOD, 5-day                   $0.73 per pound
COD                          $0.73 per pound
Ammonia-nitrogen (NH3-N)     $0.00 per pound
Oil and grease, total        $0.25 per pound
Phosphorus, total            $0.00 per pound
Total suspended solids (TSS) $0.59 per pound
 
   (F)   Method of billing surcharge fees.
      (1)   The excessive strength surcharge fee shall be based on the
following formula, with the total to be applied to the monthly bill of affected
users:
         (a)   Surcharge fee ($/month) = [A(G-300) + B(H-300) + C(I-25) + D(J-
100) + E(K-10)] x 0.00834 x Q; or
         (b)   Surcharge fee ($/month) = [F(L-900) + B(H-300) + C(I-25) + D(J-
100) + E(K-10)] x 0.00834 x Q.
      (2)   The formula giving the larger surcharge fee will be used each
month.
      (3)   Formula components are as follows:
         (a)   A = surcharge rate for BOD, in $/pound;
         (b)   B = surcharge rate for TSS, in $/pound;
         (c)   C = surcharge rate for NH3-N, in $/pound;
         (d)   D = surcharge rate for oil and grease (total), in $/pound;
         (e)   E = surcharge rate for total phosphorus, in $/pound;
         (f)   F = surcharge rate for COD, in $/pound;
         (g)   G = user's average BOD concentration, in mg/l;
         (h)   H = user's average TSS concentration, in mg/l;
         (i)   I = user's average NH3-N concentration, in mg/l;
         (j)   J = user's average oil and grease (total) concentration, in mg/
l;
         (k)   K = user's average phosphorus concentration, in mg/l;
         (l)   L = user's average COD concentration, in mg/l; and
         (m)   Q = user's monthly flow to sewage works, per 1,000 gallons.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015; Ord. 2020-3, passed 3-12-2020; Ord. 2021-1,
passed 2-9-2021)
§ 51.19 CITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in individual
wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on
discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.20 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when
the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.21 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all
categorical pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out
in §
51.15 within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state, or the
Superintendent, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for
compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s expense.
Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the Superintendent for review, and shall be acceptable to the
Superintendent before such facilities are constructed. The review of such plans
and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge
acceptable to the city under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Accidental discharge/slug discharge control plans. The Superintendent
shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental discharge/slug discharge
control plan or other action to control slug discharges. The Superintendent may
require any user to develop, submit for approval and implement such a plan or
take such other action that may be necessary to control slug discharges.
Alternatively, the Superintendent may develop such a plan for any user. An
accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Superintendent of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
51.24(F); and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
   (C)   Hauled wastewater. The city does not accept the introduction of hauled
wastewater into the POTW.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.22 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   Wastewater analysis. When requested by the Superintendent, a user must
submit information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within
30 days of the request. The Superintendent is authorized to prepare a form for
this purpose and may periodically require users to update this information.
   (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permit requirement.
      (1)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining an individual wastewater discharge from the
Superintendent, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a
timely application pursuant to division (C) below may continue to discharge for
the time period specified therein.
      (2)   The Superintendent may require other users to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter.
      (3)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual
wastewater discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and
subjects the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in §§
51.28 through
51.30. Obtaining an individual wastewater discharge does not relieve a
permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment
standards or requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state and
local law.
   (C)   Individual wastewater discharge permitting: existing connections. Any
user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who was
discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
60 days after said date, apply to the Superintendent for an individual
wastewater discharge permit in accordance with division (E) below, and shall
not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after 90 days of the
effective date of this chapter except in accordance with an individual
wastewater discharge permit issued by the Superintendent.
   (D)   Individual wastewater discharge permitting: new connections. Any user
required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who proposes to
begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to
the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this
individual wastewater discharge permit in accordance with division (E)(5)
below, must be filed at least 30 days prior to the date upon which any
discharge will begin or recommence.
   (E)   Individual wastewater discharge permit application contents.
      (1)   All users required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge
permit must submit a permit application. The Superintendent may require users
to submit all or some of the following information as part of a permit
application:
         (a)   Identifying information.
            1.   The name and address of the facility, including the name of
the operator and owner; and
            2.   Contact information, description of activities, facilities and
plant production processes on the premises.
         (b)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility.
         (c)   Description of operations.
            1.   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes and rate of
production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by such user. This description should include a schematic process
diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes;
            2.   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
            3.   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed
or actual hours of operation;
            4.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and
maximum per day); and
            5.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains and appurtenances by size, location
and elevation, and all points of discharge.
         (d)   Time and duration of discharges;
         (e)   The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit;
         (f)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in §
51.16(C) (40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e)); and
         (g)   Measurement of pollutants.
            1.   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources.
            2.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process.
            3.   Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported.
            4.   Procedures set out in §
51.24(I). Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution
prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as required by the
Superintendent or the applicable standards to determine compliance with the
standard.
            5.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set
out in §
51.24(J).
         (h)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the
Superintendent to evaluate the permit application.
      (2)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and
will be returned to the user for revision.
   (F)   Application signatories and certifications.
      (1)   All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and
certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the
user and contain the certification statement in §
51.24(M)(1).
      (2)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to the Superintendent prior to
or together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
   (G)   Individual wastewater discharge permit decisions. The Superintendent
will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require additional
information. Within 30 days of receipt of a complete permit application, the
Superintendent will determine whether to issue an individual wastewater
discharge permit. The Superintendent may deny any application for an individual
wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.23 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER PERMIT ISSUANCE.
      (A)   Individual wastewater discharge permit duration. An individual
wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time period, not to
exceed five years from the effective date of the permit. An individual
wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period less than five years, at
the discretion of the Superintendent. Each individual wastewater discharge
permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
      (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permit contents. An individual
wastewater discharge permit shall Include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the Superintendent to prevent pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
      (1)   Individual wastewater discharge permits must contain:
         (a)   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit
issuance date, expiration date and effective date;
         (b)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is
nontransferable without prior notification to the city in accordance with
division (D) below, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator
with a copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit;
         (c)   Effluent limits, including Best Management Practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards;
         (d)   Self monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency and sample type based on federal, state and local law;
         (e)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state or local law; and
         (f)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Superintendent to be necessary.
      (2)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not
be limited to, the following conditions:
         (a)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         (b)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
         (c)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or non-routine
discharges;
         (d)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
         (e)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
         (f)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
         (g)   A statement that compliance with the individual wastewater
discharge permit does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for
compliance with all applicable federal and state pretreatment standards,
including those which become effective during the term of the individual
wastewater discharge permit; and
         (h)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules and
regulations.
   (C)   Permit modification. The Superintendent may modify an individual
wastewater discharge permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the
following reasons:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      (2)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      (3)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the city’s POTW, city personnel, or the receiving waters;
      (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual wastewater
discharge permit;
      (6)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      (7)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13;
      (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual
wastewater discharge permit; or
      (9)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator where requested in accordance with division (D) below.
   (D)   Individual wastewater discharge permit transfer. Individual wastewater
discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or operator only if the
permittee gives at least 60 days’ advance notice to the Superintendent and the
Superintendent approves the individual wastewater discharge transfer.
      (1)   The notice to the Superintendent must include a written
certification by the new owner or operator which:
         (a)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate
intent to change the facility’s operations and processes;
         (b)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur;
and
         (c)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
      (2)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the
individual wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility
transfer.
   (E)   Individual wastewater discharge permit revocation. 
      (1)   The Superintendent may revoke an individual wastewater discharge
permit good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
         (a)   Failure to notify the Superintendent of significant changes to
the wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
         (b)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Superintendent of
changed conditions pursuant to §
51.24(E);
         (c)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts in the wastewater discharge permit application;
         (d)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
         (e)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
         (f)   Refusing to allow the Superintendent timely access to the
facility premises and records;
         (g)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
         (h)   Failure to pay fines;
         (i)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
         (j)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
         (k)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
         (l)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
         (m)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
      (2)   Individual wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon
cessation of operations or transfer of business ownership. All individual
wastewater discharge permits issued to a user are void upon the issuance of a
new individual wastewater discharge permit to that user.
   (F)   Individual wastewater discharge permit reissuance. A user with an
expiring individual wastewater discharge shall apply for individual wastewater
discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application, in
accordance with §
51.22(E), a minimum of 90 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
   (G)   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions.
      (1)   If another municipality, or user located within another
municipality, contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Superintendent shall
enter into an intermunicipal agreement with the contributing municipality.
      (2)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by division (G)(1)
above, the Superintendent shall request the following information from the
contributing municipality:
         (a)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged
to the POTW by the contributing municipality;
         (b)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
         (c)   Such other information as the Superintendent may deem necessary.
      (3)   An intermunicipal agreement, as required by division (G)(1) above,
shall contain the following conditions:
         (a)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer
use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and local limits,
including required baseline monitoring reports (BMRs) which are at least as
stringent as those set out in §
51.18. The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and limits must be
revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the city’s ordinance or local
limits;
         (b)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a
revised user inventory on at least an annual basis;
         (c)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including individual wastewater discharge issuance, inspection and
sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing municipality;
which of these activities will be conducted by the Superintendent; and which of
these activities will be conducted jointly by the contributing municipality and
the Superintendent;
         (d)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Superintendent with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
         (e)   Limits on the nature, quality and volume of the contributing
municipality’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
         (f)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality’s
discharge;
         (g)   A provision ensuring the Superintendent access to the facilities
of users located within the contributing municipality’s jurisdictional
boundaries for the purpose of inspection, sampling and any other duties deemed
necessary by the Superintendent; and
      (h)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intermunicipal agreement.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.24 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Baseline monitoring reports.
      (1)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical industrial users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge
to the POTW shall submit to the Superintendent a report which contains the
information listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources and sources that become
categorical industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable
categorical standard, shall submit to the Superintendent a report which
contains the information listed in division (B) below. A new source shall
report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable
categorical standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
      (2)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
         (a)   All information required in §
51.22(E)(1)(a)1., (E)(1)(b), (E)(1)(c)1. and (E)(1)(f).
         (b)   Measurement of pollutants.
            1.   The user shall provide the information required in §
51.22(E)(1)(g)1. through 4..
            2.   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this division
(A)(2).
            3.   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from
pretreatment facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the
regulated process if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed
with the regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment the user should measure the
flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream
formula in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment
standards. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e), this adjusted limit along with
supporting data shall be submitted to the control authority.
               4.   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with
division (J) below.
            5.   The Superintendent may allow the submission of a baseline
report which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides
information sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment
measures.
            6.   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
         (c)   Compliance certification: a statement, reviewed by the user’s
authorized representative as defined in §
51.04, and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
         (d)   Compliance schedule: if additional pretreatment and/or O&M will
be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which
the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided.
The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance
date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance
schedule pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in
division (B) below.
         (e)   Signature and report certification. All baseline monitoring
reports must be certified in accordance with division (M)(1) below and signed
by an authorized representative as defined in §
51.04.
   (B)   Compliance schedule progress reports. The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by division (A)(2)(d) above:
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no
later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
      (4)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the Superintendent.
   (C)   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline.
Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Superintendent a report containing the information described in §
51.22(E)(1)(f) and (E)(1)(g) and division (A)(2)(b) above. For users subject to
equivalent mass or concentration limits established in accordance with the
procedures in §
51.16, this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term
production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with division (M)(1) below.
All sampling will be done in conformance with division (J) below.
   (D)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   All significant industrial users must, at a frequency determined by
the Superintendent submit no less than twice per year (June and December [or on
dates specified]) reports indicating the nature, concentration of pollutants in
the discharge which are limited by Pretreatment Standards and the measured or
estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period. In cases
where the Pretreatment Standard requires compliance with a Best Management
Practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the user must submit
documentation required by the Superintendent or the Pretreatment Standard
necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
      (2)   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with division (M)(1) below.
      (3)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of its discharge.
      (4)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more
frequently than required by the Superintendent, using the procedures prescribed
in division (J) below, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the
report.
   (E)   Reports of changed conditions. Each user must notify the
Superintendent of any significant changes to the user’s operations or system
which might alter the nature, quality or volume of its wastewater at least
three days before the change.
      (1)   The Superintendent may require the user to submit such information
as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
51.22(E).
      (2)   The Superintendent may issue an individual wastewater discharge
permit under §
51.23(F) or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
51.23(C) in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (F)   Reports of potential problems.
      (1)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and
notify the Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the
location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known,
and corrective actions taken by the user.
      (2)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (F)(1) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
      (3)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the
Superintendent immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the
potential for a Slug Discharge.
   (G)   Reports from unpermitted users. All users not required to obtain an
individual wastewater discharge shall provide appropriate reports to the
Superintendent as the Superintendent may require.
   (H)   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting. If sampling
performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify the
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the Superintendent within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. Resampling by the industrial user is not required if the city
performs sampling at the user’s facility at least once a month, or if the City
performs sampling at the user between the time when the initial sampling was
conducted and the time when the user or the city receives the results of this
sampling, or if the city has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
industrial user.
   (I)   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste.
      (1)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall
notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge (continuous, batch or other). If the user discharges more
than 100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification also shall contain the following information to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the user: an identification of
the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass
and concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during
that calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge
commences. Any notification under this paragraph need be submitted only once
for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed
conditions must be submitted under division (E) above. The notification
requirement in this section does not apply to pollutants already reported by
users subject to categorical pretreatment standards under the self-monitoring
requirements of divisions (A), (C) and (D) above.
      (2)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (I))(1)
above, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15
kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity
of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e),
requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user
discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
      (3)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the Superintendent, the
EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and State hazardous
waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the
effective date of such regulations.
      (4)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
      (5)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance
not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable Federal or State law.
   (J)   Analytical requirements. All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, to be submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit
application or report shall be performed in accordance with the techniques
prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments thereto, unless otherwise
specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40 C.F.R. part
136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in
question, or where the EPA determines that the part 136 sampling and analytical
techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and
analyses shall be performed by using validated analytical methods or any other
applicable sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested
by the Superintendent or other parties approved by EPA.
   (K)   Sample collection. Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements
must be based on data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis
performed during the period covered by the report, based on data that is
representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period.
      (1)   Except as indicated in divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) below, the user
must collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite
sampling techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab
sampling is authorized by the Superintendent. Where time-proportional composite
sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the city, the samples must be
representative of the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate
preservation) specified in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance,
multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior
to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the
samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile
organics and oil and grease, the samples may be composited in the laboratory.
Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures
as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the city, as
appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance with
instantaneous limits.
      (2)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total
phenols, sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab
collection techniques.
      (3)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in divisions (A) and (C) above (40 C.F.R. § 403.12
(b) and (d)), a minimum of four grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide,
total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds for
facilities for which historical sampling data do not exist; for facilities for
which historical sampling data are available, (the Superintendent) may
authorize a lower minimum. For the reports required by paragraphs division (D)
above (40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e) and (h)), the industrial user is required to
collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance by
with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (L)   Date of receipt of reports. Written reports will be deemed to have
been submitted on the date postmarked. For reports, which are not mailed,
postage prepaid, into a mail facility serviced by the United States Postal
Service, the date of receipt of the report shall govern.
   (M)   Recordkeeping. Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
chapter shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this chapter, any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements,
and documentation associated with Best Management Practices established under §
51.18(C). Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the city, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the Superintendent.
   (N)   Certification statements.
      (1)   Certification of permit applications, user reports and initial
monitoring waiver. The following certification statement is required to be
signed and submitted by users submitting permit applications in accordance with
§
51.22(F); users submitting baseline monitoring reports under division (A)(2)(e)
above; users submitting reports on compliance with the categorical pretreatment
standard deadlines under division (C) above; users submitting periodic
compliance reports required by divisions (D)(1) through (D)(4) above, and users
submitting an initial request to forego sampling of a pollutant on the basis of
division (D)(2)(d) above. The following certification statement must be signed
by an authorized representative as defined in § 
51.04 :
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.
      (2)   Certification of pollutants not present.
         (a)   Users that have an approved monitoring waiver based on division
(D)(2) above must certify on each report with the following statement that
there has been no increase in the pollutant in its wastestream due to
activities of the user.
         (b)   Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly
responsible for managing compliance with the pretreatment standard for 40
C.F.R._ [specify applicable National Pretreatment Standard part(s)], I certify
that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the
level of_[list pollutant(s)] in the wastewaters due to the activities at the
facility since filing of the last periodic report under division (D)(1) above.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.25 COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   (A)   Right of entry: inspection and sampling. The Superintendent shall have
the right to enter the premises of any user to determine whether the user is
complying with all requirements of this chapter and any individual wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the
Superintendent ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance of
any additional duties.
      (1)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent shall be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
      (2)   The Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the user’s
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user’s operations.
      (3)   The Superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated monthly to ensure their accuracy.
      (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the user.
      (5)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent access to the
user’s premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Search warrants. If the Superintendent has been refused access to a
building, structure or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the city designed to verify compliance with
this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety and welfare of the community, the Superintendent may seek
issuance of a search warrant from the County Circuit Court of the state.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.26 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge permits and
monitoring programs, and from the Superintendent’s inspection and sampling
activities, shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Superintendent, that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted at the
time of submission of the information or data. When requested and demonstrated
by the user furnishing a report that such information should be held
confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or
secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public, but
shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies for
uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in enforcement
proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents
and characteristics and other effluent data, as defined at 40 C.F.R. § 2.302
shall not be recognized as confidential information and shall be available to
the public without restriction.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.27 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions
served by the POTW, a list of the users which, at any time during the previous
12 months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements.
   (B)   The term significant noncompliance shall be applicable to all
significant industrial users (or any other industrial user that violates
divisions (B)(3), (B)(4) or (B)(8) below) and shall mean:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter taken during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits as defined
in §
51.04;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as
defined by §
51.04, multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by §
51.04 (daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit or narrative
standard) that the Superintendent determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Superintendent’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge permit
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of Best
Management Practices, which the Superintendent determines will adversely affect
the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.28 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. When the Superintendent finds that a user
has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an
individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Superintendent may serve upon that
user a written notice of violation. Within 30 days of the receipt of such
notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall
be submitted by the user to the Superintendent. Submission of such a plan in no
way relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the
authority of the Superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions
or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The Superintendent may enter into consent orders,
assurances of compliance or other similar documents establishing an agreement
with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents shall include
specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a
time period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force
and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to §
51.27(B)(4) and (B)(5) and shall be judicially enforceable.
   (C)   Show cause hearing. The Superintendent may order a user which has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before the Superintendent and
show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice
shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the
proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that
the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken.
The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days prior to the
hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of the user
as defined in §
51.04 and required by §
51.22(F)(1). A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
   (D)   Compliance orders. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Superintendent may issue an order to
the user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into
compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come into compliance
within the time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are installed and
properly operated. Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to
address the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management
practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the
sewer. A compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance
established for a pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance
order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any continuing
violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (E)   Cease and desist orders. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, or that the user’s past violations are
likely to recur, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it
to cease and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and
desist order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
   (F)   Administrative fines.
      (1)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Superintendent may fine such user in an amount not to
exceed $1,000. Such fines shall be assessed on a per-violation, per-day basis.
In the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits, fines shall
be assessed for each day during the period of violation.
      (2)   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall, after 45 calendar days,
be assessed an additional penalty of 12% of the unpaid balance, and interest
shall accrue thereafter at a rate of 12% per month. A lien against the user’s
property shall be sought for unpaid charges, fines and penalties.
      (3)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request
for the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the
fine amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has
merit, the Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the
user’s appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing
thereto, shall be returned to the user. The Superintendent may add the costs of
preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to
the fine.
      (4)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (G)   Emergency suspensions. The Superintendent may immediately suspend a
user’s discharge, after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension
is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably
appears to present, or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the
health or welfare of persons. The Superintendent may also immediately suspend a
user’s discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to
interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an
endangerment to the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Superintendent may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent may
allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the Superintendent that the period of endangerment has
passed, unless the termination proceedings in §
51.27(B)(8) are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under §
51.27(B)(3) or (B)(8). Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as
requiring a hearing prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
   (H)   Termination of discharge. 
      (1)   In addition to the provisions in §
51.23(E), any user who violates the following conditions is subject to
discharge termination:
         (a)   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit conditions;
         (b)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
         (c)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
         (d)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection, monitoring or sampling; or
         (e)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
51.15 through
51.20.
      (2)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
51.27(B)(3) why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this
option by the Superintendent shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.30 JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Injunctive relief. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Superintendent may petition the
County Circuit Court through the city’s Attorney for the issuance of a
temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels
the specific performance of the individual wastewater discharge permit, order
or other requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The
Superintendent may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/
or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   The Superintendent may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court
costs and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the city.
      (2)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the Court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user and any other factor as
justice requires.
      (3)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (C)   Remedies nonexclusive. The remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive. The Superintendent may take any, all, or any combination of
these actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment
violations will generally be in accordance with the city’s enforcement response
plan. However, the Superintendent may take other action against any user when
the circumstances warrant. Further, the Superintendent is empowered to take
more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.30 SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   Payment of outstanding fees and penalties: the Superintendent may decline to
issue or reissue an individual wastewater discharge permit to any user who has
failed to pay any outstanding fees, fines or penalties incurred as a result of
any provision of this chapter, a previous individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.31 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent
caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or careless or
improper operation.
      (2)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of division (A)(3) below are met.
      (3)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or
other relevant evidence that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five days):
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (4)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (5)   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on
any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      (6)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards. A user shall have an affirmative
defense to an enforcement action brought against it for noncompliance with the
general prohibitions in §
51.15(A) or the specific prohibitions in §
51.15(B)(3) through (B)(16) if it can prove that it did not know, or have
reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges
from other sources, would cause pass through or interference and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through
or interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when
the city was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of
a user’s treatment facility.
         SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property,
damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      (2)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of divisions (C)(3) and (C)(4) above.
      (3)   Bypass notifications.
         (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Superintendent, at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Superintendent of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The Superintendent may waive the written report on
a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
      (4)   Bypass.
         (a)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Superintendent may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
            1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
            2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastesw or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            3.   The user submitted notices as required under division (C)(3)
above.
         (b)   The Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Superintendent determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (C)(4)(a) above.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.32 WASTEWATER TREATMENT RATES.
   (A)   What rates are based on. Residential, commercial and those industrial
customers not participating in the industrial cost recovery program, shall pay
sewage service rates based on water purchased from the city. Industries
participating in industrial cost recovery shall be charged on metered waste
flows.
   (B)   Rates.
      (1)   A minimum charge of $38 for the first 2,000 gallons of water
consumed or metered flow will be charged to all residential customers.
Thereafter, $10 per 1,000 gallons will be charged to all residential customers.
      (2)   A minimum charge of $42.50 for the first 2,000 gallons of water
consumed or metered flow will be charged to all commercial customers.
Thereafter, $10.50 per 1,000 gallons will be charged to all commercial and
industrial customers.
      (3)   A minimum charge of $75 for the first 2,000 gallons of water
consumed or metered flow will be charged to all industrial customers unless a
contractual agreement is in place for base charges or fees. Thereafter, $11 per
1,000 gallons will be charged to all industrial customers.
   (C)   Tap fees.
      (1)   Each customer applying for a sanitary sewer connection shall pay a
$500 minimum sewer tap-on fee prior to connection unless specifically otherwise
agreed upon in advance.
      (2)   In the event the cost to the city exceeds the above tap-on fee, a
determination of the actual cost shall be made by the Utility Superintendent
and such cost shall be the responsibility of the customer.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 2-13-2018; Ord. 2023-3, passed 6-21-2023)
§ 51.33 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The city may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up
and operating the city’s pretreatment program, which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost
of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user’s discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports and certification statements submitted by users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals;
   (E)   Fees to recover administrative and legal costs (not included in §
51.32) associated with the enforcement activity taken by the Superintendent to
address IU noncompliance; and
   (F)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines and penalties
chargeable by the city.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to
the city for a minimum civil penalty of $1,000 per violation, per day. In the
case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall
accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
   (C)   (1)   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of
this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than
$1,000 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than one year, or
both.
      (2)   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into
the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least
$1,000 or be subject to imprisonment for not more than one year, or both. This
penalty shall be in addition to any other cause of action for personal injury
or property damage available under state law.
      (3)   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter, individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of
not more than $1,000 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than
one year, or both.
      (4)   In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $1,000 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not
more than one year, or both.
(Ord. 2015-9, passed 11-10-2015)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
52.01   Water rates and tap fees
§ 52.01 WATER RATES AND TAP FEES.
   (A)   The City Council does hereby fix and establish the following rates to
be charged for water supplied by the water works system of the city to
customers residing within the city limits, such rates to become effective and
to be charged on all bills following the adoption and publication of this
section, as follows.
   (1)   Residential use.
 
Water Rates Inside City Limits
First 2,000 gallons    $33 minimum bill
All over 2,000 gallons $10 per 1,000 gallons
 
 
Water Rates Outside City Limits
First 2,000 gallons    $40 minimum bill
All over 2,000 gallons $11 per 1,000 gallons
 
 
Water Rates Tennessee Customers
First 2,000 gallons    $41.50 minimum bill
All over 2,000 gallons $11 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (2)   Commercial use.
 
Water Rates Inside City Limits
First 2,000 gallons    $38 minimum bill
All over 2,000 gallons $10 per 1,000 gallons
 
 
Water Rates Outside City Limits
First 2,000 gallons    $41.50 minimum bill
All over 2,000 gallons $11 per 1,000 gallons
 
 
Water Rates Tennessee Customers
First 2,000 gallons    $42.50 minimum bill
All over 2,000 gallons $11 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (3)   Industrial use.
 
3" Water Meters and Larger
First 2,000 gallons    $500 minimum bill
All over 2,000 gallons $11 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (4)   Water salesman rates: $11 per 1,000 gallons.
      (5)   Bulk water from hydrant rate:
         (a)   Per service charge: $75.
         (b)   Per 1,000 gallons: $11.
   (B)   Each customer applying for new water connection to the municipal water
system shall pay the fee set by the following water tap-on schedule:
      (1)   Three-quarter inch services: $1,000.
      (2)   Services over three-quarter inches: At cost.
   (C)   In the event the cost to the city exceeds the above tap-on fee, a
determination of the actual cost shall be made by the Utility Superintendent
and such cost shall be the responsibility of the customer.
   (D)   All new water customers shall pay a $250 deposit to the city at the
time that the meter is set and water service is provided. The deposit shall be
refunded in full upon the payment of the customer's final bill upon termination
of water service.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 8-13-2019; Ord. 2024-01, passed 1-9-2024)
CHAPTER 53: GAS
Section
General Provisions
53.01   Definitions
Use Regulations
53.15   Application for service
53.16   Connections
53.17   Unauthorized cut-on or cut-off of gas connection
53.18   Change in ownership, tenancy or service
Rates, Billing and Payment
53.30   Natural gas rates
53.31   All customers to be metered; no free service
53.32   Owners and occupants jointly liable
53.33   Billing; delinquency
53.34   Customer-dispute billing
53.35   Termination of utility service
53.36   Summary turn off; termination
53.37   Reinstatement of utility service
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any separate family, business, firm, corporation or individual
using natural gas distributed by the city for domestic or business purposes.
   GUTHRIE MUNICIPAL GAS SYSTEM. The subdivision of the city which shall
operate, maintain and control the sale of natural gas to the customers.
(2002 Code, § 53.01) (Ord. 1999 NG-1, passed 5-20-1999)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 53.15 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Connection with the mains of the city’s municipal gas system shall be made
on application of the owner of the premises to be supplied with natural gas, or
by his or her duly authorized agent.
(2002 Code, § 53.05) (Ord. 1999 NG-1, passed 5-20-1999; Ord. 2023-6, passed 10-
10-2023)
§ 53.16 CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Municipal Gas Company shall furnish and maintain all
necessary fittings, pipes, appliances, including all meter and related
appurtenances, to deliver natural gas to the customer. The customer shall
reimburse or be responsible for the cost of the materials and installation of
infrastructure from the nearest pipeline access point to the customer that is
necessary to deliver gas to the customer.
   (B)   All fittings, pipes, appliances, meters and appurtenances shall remain
the property of the gas company and shall at all times be accessible to it and
under its control.
   (C)   The City Municipal Gas Company shall not be liable for any damages, be
it personal injury or property damage, caused by any defect in, or failure to
properly maintain any cut off, valve, fixture or appliance furnished by the
customer.
(2002 Code, § 53.06) (Ord. 1999 NG-1, passed 5-20-1999; Ord. 2023-6, passed 10-
10-2023)
§ 53.17 UNAUTHORIZED CUT ON OR CUT OFF OF GAS CONNECTION.
   No plumber, owner or other unauthorized person shall turn the gas off or on
at any stop or valve of the gas company, or disconnect or remove the meter
without the consent of the gas company, nor shall he or she make connection
with the lines or mains of the gas company without the consent of the gas
company.
(2002 Code, § 53.07) (Ord. 1999 NG-1, passed 5-20-1999; Ord. 2023-6, passed 10-
10-2023)
§ 53.18 CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP, TENANCY OR SERVICE.
   A new application must be made to, and approved by the gas company on any
change in the ownership of property in tenancy, or in the service, as described
in the application, and the gas company shall have the right to discontinue
natural gas service until a new application is made, all charges paid, deposits
made and the institution of service approved.
(2002 Code, § 53.08) (Ord. 1999 NG-1, passed 5-20-1999)
RATES, BILLING AND PAYMENT
§ 53.30 NATURAL GAS RATES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
(A)   The City Council does hereby fix and establish the following rates to be
charged for natural gas supplied by the city’s municipal gas system to
customers, such rates to become effective and be charged on all bills after the
passage of this chapter as follows:
 
Residential Natural Gas Rates
Base monthly fee $15.35 minimum bill
Per MCF          $12*
*Rate shall apply so long as cost of gas to city/supplier is $5 MCF or less.
If cost of gas exceeds $5, then rate shall be adjusted by the amount over $5.
 
Commercial Natural Gas Rates
Base monthly fee $50 minimum bill
Per MCF          $10.80*
*Rate shall apply so long as cost of gas to city/supplier is $5 MCF or less.
If cost of gas exceeds $5, then rate shall be adjusted by the amount over $5.
 
Industrial Natural Gas Rates*
Base monthly fee        $475 minimum bill
First 50,000 CCF volume $0.175
Next 10,000 CCF volume  $0.145
Next 15,000 CCF volume  $0.115
Over 100,000 CCF volume $0.095
*Minimum of 30,000 per month required for WACOG rate
 
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall limit or prohibit the city, by
and through its mayor or authorized agent, from entering into a service
agreement with industrial customers containing rates structured to meet the
needs of the industrial customer in an amount different from the rates set
forth above. Absent an agreement otherwise, the rate structure above shall be
adhered to.
   (C)   New gas customers shall pay a customer deposit in the amount of $250,
or two times the highest monthly bill at the customer location based upon
historical data, whichever is greater in amount.
(2002 Code, § 53.15) (Ord. 1999 NG-1, passed 5-20-1999; Ord. 2001 NG-1, passed
10-18-2001; Ord. 2023-6, passed 10-10-2023)
§ 53.31 ALL CUSTOMERS TO BE METERED; NO FREE SERVICE.
   It shall be mandatory for all customers of the natural gas system to be
metered, and the schedule of rates herein prescribed shall be uniformly charged
to all customers of the system, including all residential, commercial and
industrial establishments in any manner directly, or indirectly connected with,
and served by the natural gas system of the city, except as pursuant to duly
negotiated and approved agreements with industrial customers as authorized
herein. No one shall receive or be entitled to free natural gas service without
paying the full rates herein specified and absent a specific duly authorized
agreement.
(2002 Code, § 53.16) (Ord. 1999 NG-1, passed 5-20-1999; Ord. 2023-6, passed 10-
10-2023)
§ 53.32 OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS JOINTLY LIABLE.
   The rates and charges aforesaid shall be billed to the owners or occupants
of the premises, and if the occupant of any premises is not also the owner,
both the owner and the occupant shall be responsible for the payment of the
natural gas bill, which, if unpaid, shall constitute a lien upon the premises.
(2002 Code, § 53.17) (Ord. 1999 NG-1, passed 5-20-1999)
§ 53.33 BILLING; DELINQUENCY.
   The rates and charges for natural gas service shall be billed in the
aggregate amount monthly and all bills for the services shall be due when
rendered. If any bill is not paid by the sixteenth day of the month, a
delinquency penalty of 10% of the amount of the bill shall attach and be
payable in addition to the amount of the bill. In addition, if not paid by the
twentieth day of the month, the charges shall be deemed delinquent. The city
shall serve a customer written notice of his or her delinquency and of the fact
the customer is entitled, upon written request, to a hearing on the question of
termination of service as set forth in §
53.34 below.
(2002 Code, § 53.18) (Ord. 1999 NG-1, passed 5-20-1999; Ord. 2023-6, passed 10-
10-2023)
§ 53.34 CUSTOMER-DISPUTE BILLING.
   (A)   A utility customer may dispute the correctness of all or part of the
monthly billing charged for gas utility service, in accordance with the
procedure set forth in this section. The utility customer aggrieved by an error
in the monthly billing shall notify the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector
within the time permitted; otherwise, the right to dispute the billing shall be
deemed waived. A utility customer who has disputed all, or part of a monthly
billing, pursuant to this section, shall not be entitled to dispute these
amounts when carried forward as a part of a subsequent billing.
   (B)   The procedure to resolve disputed billing charges shall be as follows:
      (1)   A customer aggrieved by a monthly billing shall notify the City
Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector in writing, within ten calendar days from the
date the billing was issued. The notice shall state the portion of the billing
amount which is in dispute, and set forth the reasons the customer believes he
or she is not obligated to pay as billed.
      (2)   If the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector determines that the
dispute is timely filed, and is not an attempt to rechallenge amounts disputed
under a previous billing, the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector shall schedule
a formal hearing before the City Council. The customer shall be given notice of
the time and place of the hearing and advised to bring all information relevant
to the dispute.
      (3)   At the hearing, the utility and the customer shall be entitled to
present all evidence that is, in the City Council’s view, relevant and material
to the dispute, and to examine and cross examine witnesses. A written record of
the hearing shall be maintained.
      (4)   Based on the record established at the hearing, the City Council,
within five days of the completion of the hearing, shall issue its written
decision formally resolving the dispute. This decision shall be final and
binding on the utility and the customer.
   (C)   Until the date of the City Council’s decision, the utility shall not
terminate the customer’s utility service, and shall not issue a notice of
termination solely for nonpayment of the disputed amounts.
   (D)   (1)   Utilization of this dispute procedure shall not relieve the
utility customer of his or her obligation to timely and completely pay all
other undisputed utility billing charges or installments and surcharges, and
the undisputed portions of billings which are the subject of the present
dispute.
      (2)   Failure by the customer to timely and completely pay all the
undisputed amounts shall subject the customer to termination of utility service
in accordance with the provisions of § 53.35.
(2002 Code, § 53.19) (Ord. 1999 NG-1, passed 5-20-1999)
§ 53.35 TERMINATION OF UTILITY SERVICE.
   (A)   When a utility customer has not timely challenged all, or part of a
monthly billing pursuant to §
53.34, and the customer has become delinquent in the payment of the account,
the utility shall initiate the termination of utility service by mailing to the
customer a notice of termination.
   (B)    Where a utility customer has challenged a billing pursuant to §
53.34 and the matter has been finally resolved by City Council, the utility
shall, within five days after the final decision is issued, mail to the
customer a notice of termination.
   (C)   The notice of termination shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The amount to be paid;
      (2)   The date the notice of termination was issued;
      (3)   The date on which a termination of utility service shall occur. The
date of termination shall be seven calendar days after the date on which the
notice of termination was issued;
      (4)   A statement that, unless the utility receives full payment of the
amount shown on the notice of termination prior to the date of termination,
utility service will be terminated; and
      (5)   The telephone number of the utility and the name of a person to
contact regarding the billing charge.
   (D)   If, prior to the date of termination, the utility has not received
complete payment of the amount shown on the notice of termination, then the
utility shall terminate utility service provided to the customer on the date of
termination.
   (E)   If the utility receives payment of the entire amount shown on the
notice prior to the date of termination, the payment shall be considered timely
and shall halt the termination process.
(2002 Code, § 53.20) (Ord. 1999 NG-1, passed 5-20-1999)
§ 53.36 SUMMARY TURN OFF; TERMINATION.
   (A)   It is the policy of city utilities to notify customers prior to
termination of service. In certain circumstances, delivery of written notice
may be impossible or impractical when balanced against the need to protect the
system against waste of gas, leaks, contamination or other hazard.
   (B)   The utility may direct the temporary turn off of service to one or
more customers where the following conditions exist:
      (1)   Leaks, breaks or failure in the mains, services, pumping machinery
or other equipment require a partial or total discontinuation in service;
      (2)   Instances where contaminates dangerous to health have entered the
natural gas system, necessitating a total or partial discontinuance of service;
and/or
      (3)   In the event service is interrupted for one of these reasons, the
utility shall provide affected customers with notice of the reason for turn
off, and the expected duration of the interruption of service by the most
practical medium.
(2002 Code, § 53.21) (Ord. 1999 NG-1, passed 5-20-1999)
§ 53.37 REINSTATEMENT OF UTILITY SERVICE.
   When a customer has been terminated for a default in payment, and the
customer has completely paid all arrearages due on the account, including fees
associated with the restoration of service, the utility shall reinstate utility
service to the customer as soon as it is practical.
(2002 Code, § 53.22) (Ord. 1999 NG-1, passed 5-20-1999)
CHAPTER 54: GROUNDWATER
Section
54.01   Regulation of groundwater within the city
54.02   Permit for groundwater use
 
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 REGULATION OF GROUNDWATER WITHIN THE CITY.
   (A)   Application. The use of any and all groundwater for residential,
commercial and/or industrial purposes within the city is prohibited, and all
existing groundwater wells shall be closed and abandoned in accordance with
federal, state and local law within 90 days of the effective date of this
chapter, unless within 90 days of the effective date of this chapter,
application has been made for a permit, and a permit is issued, for the use of
groundwater in the city in accordance with §
54.02; provided, however, if a person owning or operating a groundwater well in
the city at the time of this chapter’s enactment files a permit application in
accordance with §
54.99, such person may continue use of such existing well in the city until a
groundwater use permit is issued or denied by the city.
   (B)   Installation. The construction of new groundwater wells for
residential, commercial and/or industrial purposes within the city is hereby
prohibited.
(Ord. C-5, passed - -) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.02 PERMIT FOR GROUNDWATER USE.
   (A)   Application. No groundwater well used for residential, commercial and/
or industrial purposes may be used, installed or allowed to exist within the
city unless specifically authorized by a permit issued by the city. Any person
seeking a permit for use of groundwater pursuant to the requirements of this
chapter, and all persons owning or operating a groundwater well at the time of
this chapter’s enactment who wish to continue the use thereof, shall complete
and file with the city an application on the form prescribed by the Planning
and Zoning Chairperson.
      (1)   In support of any permit application, an applicant shall submit the
following information:
         (a)   Name, address and Social Security number or tax identification
number of applicant;
         (b)   Name and address of the owner of the parcel of real property
upon which the well head for the existing or proposed groundwater well is or
will be located;
         (c)   Proposed use(s) for the groundwater;
         (d)   Estimated gallons of groundwater to be used per day/month/year;
         (e)   Size and maximum capacity of the existing or proposed
groundwater well; and
         (f)   Depth, design and installation and construction details of the
existing or proposed groundwater well.
      (2)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application, including, but not limited to, scientific
testing to assess whether an existing or proposed groundwater well and
groundwater use will constitute a danger to the health, safety and welfare of
any person.
   (B)   Issuance, conditions and term. 
      (1)   The city will evaluate the data and information furnished in any
application and may require additional information, design or capacity changes,
conditions on use or other modifications to the application or the proposed
groundwater well before approving or denying the issuance of a groundwater use
permit. If the city requests scientific testing and information to assess
whether a proposed groundwater well and groundwater use will constitute a
danger to the health, safety and welfare of any person, the person seeking the
permit for the groundwater well shall bear the cost of completing the testing
and compiling such information.
      (2)   The city will not issue a groundwater use permit to any applicant
unless the city has:
         (a)   Approved the permit application, the proposed groundwater use,
the groundwater well design, and any other additional information, conditions
or modifications requested of or from the applicant; and
         (b)   Determined that the existing or proposed groundwater well and
groundwater use will not constitute a danger to the health, safety and welfare
of any person.
      (3)   A groundwater use permit shall incorporate all information in the
approved permit application and shall contain any conditions, limitations or
modifications deemed necessary by the city to protect the public health, safety
and welfare and to comply with all prior city recommendations regarding
groundwater wells and groundwater use. Permits shall remain effective until
such time as the groundwater well is no longer used or the permit is revoked,
whichever occurs first. A permit must be transferred to a new user within 30
days of any change in the owner or operator of a permitted groundwater well.
Transfer of a permit is effected by written notice to the city by the
permittee.
   (C)   Revocation. 
      (1)   Any user of a permitted groundwater well that violates the
following conditions is subject to permit revocation.
      (2)   Violations subjecting a user to possible permit revocation include,
but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Failure to notify the city of any changes in the manner of
usage, purpose of usage or in the volume of groundwater used;
         (b)   Usage of groundwater for purposes other than the original
purpose(s) for which the permit was granted;
         (c)   Violation of any conditions, limitations or terms of the permit;
and
         (d)   Failure to transfer a permit upon change in the owner or
operator of a permitted groundwater well.
      (3)   Permits may be revoked at any time by the city if it determines
that the current or reasonably anticipated use of groundwater constitutes a
danger to the health, safety or welfare of any person.
   (D)   Amendment. The city reserves the right to amend any permit, or any
term or condition thereof, based on changed conditions, on any changes in the
manner of groundwater usage, or on changes in the volume of groundwater used,
or to assure protection of the public health, safety or welfare. A permittee
shall be informed of any proposed amendments to a permit at least 30 days prior
to the effective date of such amendment; provided, however, that no advance
notice shall be necessary for any permit amendment required to address
immediate endangerment of public health, safety or welfare.
(Ord. C-5, passed - -)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who is found to have violated this chapter shall be fined. The
maximum fine per violation shall be $500, unless the violation is determined to
be a continuing violation. For a continuing violation, each day on which a
violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct
offense and shall be fined an amount not to exceed $250 per day.
(Ord. C-5, passed - -)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
   
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Regulations
70.01   Definitions
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
70.04   Authority for enforcement
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
70.15   Signal legends
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
70.17   Obedience to signals
70.18   Interference with signals
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
70.22   Compression/release engine braking
 
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the BOULEVARD.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and other portions of the roadway between two
intersections that may be legally designated as crossing places and marked by
stanchions, paint lines or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles, whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not
one street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and
footpaths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street, improved, designated or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on any street, except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county or city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any
of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this
traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose traffic regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks.
If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two
weeks, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the extended
order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits
either turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the
signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at
another point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at another point as
may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed until
it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by the
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way.” Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane, all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above the lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at that place prohibits
the turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Accident involving death or serious injury; penalty for not reporting, see
KRS 189.990
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic device or
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal or any commercial advertising. Nothing in
this section shall be construed as restricting any public department or public
utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or erecting
any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the city.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his or her discretion disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
§ 70.22 COMPRESSION/RELEASE ENGINE BRAKING.
   No person shall operate or cause to be operated at or upon any public
highway located within the city, any compression/engine brake on any vehicle
for any reason. For purposes of this section, a COMPRESSION/RELEASE ENGINE
BRAKE is defined as any mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the
braking or deceleration of any vehicle by converting engine power to compressed
air which results in additional, excessive, loud or explosive noise from such
vehicle.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-9-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no
other penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §
70.22 shall be subject to a fine of $100.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 5-9-2011)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
71.001   Obstructing traffic
71.002   Reverse or U-turns
71.003   Backing vehicles
71.004   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
71.015   Duty of operator
71.016   Accident report
Prohibitions
71.030   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
71.031   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
71.032   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
71.045   Definitions
71.046   Permit required
71.047   Application for permit
71.048   Standards for issuance of permit
71.049   Notice of rejection of permit
71.050   Appeal procedure when permit denied
71.051   Alternative permit
71.052   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
71.053   Contents of permit
71.054   Duties of permittee
71.055   Public conduct during parades
71.056   Revocation of permit
Trains
71.070   Period of obstructing highway, street or navigable stream limited
 
71.999   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.001 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this
division (C) rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.002 REVERSE OR U-TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.004 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway or building, the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.999
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.015 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident, in which any person is injured or
property damaged, to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render any assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.016 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.999
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.030 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates divisions
(C) or (D) of this section shall be subject to revocation of his or her
operator’s license under KRS 186.560.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.031 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
emergency vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as
possible to the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop
and remain stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provisions of division (F) of this section shall apply to any
driver upon approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) of this section shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with at least two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the approaching
vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to safety
and traffic conditions.
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.032 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.999
PARADES
§ 71.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park or
other public place in the city, or CRUISING as defined herein.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire as defined in KRS 189.700.
(2002 Code, § 71.40) (Ord. 1995-C-6, passed 5-1-1995)
§ 71.046 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities; or
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(2002 Code, § 71.41) (Ord. 1995-C-6, passed 5-1-1995) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.047 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police on forms provided by such officer.
   (A)   Filing period. An application for a parade permit shall be filed with
the Chief of Police not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days before the date
on which it is proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   Required information. The application for a parade permit shall set
forth the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person wishing to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalks, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file
with the Chief of Police a communication in writing from the person authorizing
the applicant to apply for the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information which the Chief of Police shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should
issue.
(2002 Code, § 71.42) (Ord. 1995-C-6, passed 5-1-1995) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.048 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall issue a permit when, from a consideration of the
application and from other information obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit; or
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
(2002 Code, § 71.43) (Ord. 1995-C-6, passed 5-1-1995) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.049 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall act on the application for a parade permit within
three days, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If
he or she disapproves the application, he or she shall mail to the applicant
within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after the date
on which the application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the
reasons for his or her denial of the permits.
(2002 Code, § 71.44) (Ord. 1995-C-6, passed 5-1-1995)
§ 71.050 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the legislative body. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice. The legislative body shall act on the appeal within 30 days after its
receipt.
(2002 Code, § 71.45) (Ord. 1995-C-6, passed 5-1-1995)
§ 71.051 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, in denying an application for a parade permit,
shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time,
or over a route different than that named by the applicant.
   (B)   An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall, within
three days after notice of the action of the Chief of Police, file a written
notice of his or her acceptance with the Chief of Police.
   (C)   An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements of, and
shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this subchapter.
(2002 Code, § 71.46) (Ord. 1995-C-6, passed 5-1-1995)
§ 71.052 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, the Chief of Police shall
send a copy thereof to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
(2002 Code, § 71.47) (Ord. 1995-C-6, passed 5-1-1995)
§ 71.053 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as the Chief of Police shall find necessary to
the enforcement of this subchapter.
(2002 Code, § 71.48) (Ord. 1995-C-6, passed 5-1-1995) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.054 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and
conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (B)   The parade chairperson or other person heading or leading the activity
shall carry the parade permit on his or her person during the conduct of the
parade.
(2002 Code, § 71.49) (Ord. 1995-C-6, passed 5-1-1995) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.055 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle, except a police car
or other emergency vehicle, shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
(2002 Code, § 71.50) (Ord. 1995-C-6, passed 5-1-1995) Penalty, see §
71.999
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.056 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit
issued hereunder on application of the standards for issuance as herein set
forth.
(2002 Code, § 71.51) (Ord. 1995-C-6, passed 5-1-1995)
TRAINS
§ 71.070 PERIOD OF OBSTRUCTING HIGHWAY, STREET OR NAVIGABLE STREAM LIMITED.
   (A)   No railroad company shall obstruct any public highway or street, or
the navigation of any stream, by stopping and permitting trains, engines or
cars to stand upon a public grade crossing or upon a drawbridge for more than
five minutes at any one time, unless such stopping and standing is caused by
circumstances beyond the control of the railroad company.
   (B)   No member of a railroad train crew shall be held personally guilty of
violating a municipal ordinance regulating the blocking of public grade
crossings by trains, engines or cars, on proof that his or her action was
necessary to comply with the orders or instructions of the railroad company or
its officers; provided that nothing in this section shall relieve the railroad
company from any responsibility placed upon it by said ordinance.
(KRS 277.200) (2002 Code, § 71.60) (Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.031 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60
nor more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30
days, or both.
(KRS 189.993(8))
   (C)   (1)   Any person or organization, association or corporation who
violates any provision of §§
71.045 through
71.056 shall be deemed to have committed a Class A misdemeanor and, upon
conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction, shall be fined not more than
$500 or sentenced to imprisonment for a term not to exceed 12 months or both,
for each offense.
      (2)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the city from pursuing any
other remedy available, including, without limitation, injunctive relief, when
appropriate, to ensure compliance with §§
71.045 through
71.056.
(2002 Code, § 71.99) (Ord. 1995-C-6, passed 5-1-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of city ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
72.02   Manner of parking
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
72.07   Parking on parade route
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
72.09   Owner responsibility
72.10   Parking in parks
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
72.12   Parking with disabled permits
Impounding
72.25   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
72.26   Required notice to owner
72.27   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
72.40   Announcement of snow emergency
72.41   Termination of emergency
72.42   Snow emergency routes
 
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS 65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction or hindrance in or on any street,
alley or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side, the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that the
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. This backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. The diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which the vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park the
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (3)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (4)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk;
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (6)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (7)   On any controlled access highway;
      (8)   Within a highway tunnel;
      (9)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; or
      (10)   On an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
(KRS 189.450(5))
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(6))
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to disabled parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice thereof.
However, in lieu of erecting the signs or in conjunction therewith, the face
and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is prohibited at all
times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the signs
have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the time
of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions which
by their very nature would not require the signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §§
72.25 through
72.27
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of the signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§ 71.40 through 71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee or person in charge of the property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.25 through
72.27.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that an unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the
owner’s expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot or tot lot within the city not
designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a roadway.
However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and regularly
maintained roadway in any park or playground where at least two wheels of the
motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH DISABLED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for disabled persons, when operated by a disabled
person or when transporting a disabled person, may be parked in a designated
disabled parking place, or when parked in a metered parking space may be parked
for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking limit is imposed may
be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit. The motor vehicle may
be parked in a loading zone for that period of time necessary to permit
entrance or exit of the disabled person to or from the parked vehicle, but in
no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “No Stopping” or “No
Parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle- related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator’s arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
§ 72.26 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority, or private person or
business for any reason; when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated,
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority, or by private person or business; or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority, or by private person or business, the police, other authority,
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the State
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 and within
ten business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify
the registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license
number and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of the
vehicle, and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) above is placed in a garage or
other storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the
notice provided in division (A) by certified mail to the registered owner at
the address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as
defined in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of recovery of or taking
possession of the motor vehicle. This notice shall contain the information as
to the make, model, license number and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, the location of the vehicle, and the amount of reasonable charges for
towing, recovery, storage, transporting and other applicable charges due on the
vehicle. When the owner of the facility fails to provide notice as provided
herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall forfeit all storage fees
accrued after ten business days from the date of tow. This division (B) shall
not apply to a garage or storage facility owned or operated by the city.
§ 72.27 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles
who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928 shall have a
lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275
(2), for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in accordance with KRS
281.926 and 281.932, as long as it remains in his or her possession.
   (B)    If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932 have not been paid, the
motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275(2), may be
sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lien holder have been notified
by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1), ten days prior
to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle
pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale
and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. This lien shall be subject to prior recorded
liens, unless released by any existing lien holder pursuant to division (C)
below.
   (C)   (1)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail
within the first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928.
      (2)   The notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928
shall include the make, model, license number, vehicle identification number,
owner’s name and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the
vehicle, and state that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain
a new title free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (3)   If the certified letter required under this division is not sent
within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then only ten days of
storage may be charged.
      (4)   The lien holder has the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable
or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle.
      (5)   If a lien holder does not exercise the right to take possession of
the motor vehicle under this division within 45 days of notification, the tow
company or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and
clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (6)   Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190 or in division (C)(5) of
this section.
   (D)   If there are no lien holders required to be notified under KRS 281.920
to 281.936 and 359.230 and this section, and the owner does not exercise the
right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this section within 45 days
of notification required under KRS 281.928, the towing company or storage
facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens,
excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1))
Statutory reference:
   Provisions concerning disposition of contents of motor vehicle, see KRS
376.275(2)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.40 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that parking be prohibited, he or she is
authorized to announce the prohibition, to become effective at a time specified
by him or her. After the effective time of the prohibition, no person shall
park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency
route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain occurs after 11:00
p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city
official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency
routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow
emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following the fall. The
prohibition of parking announced by the Chief of Police or other authorized
city official under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until
he or she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in which
the prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in
effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.41 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
If the announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it
shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.42 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On a street or highway designated
as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this effect.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount
not less than $20 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(KRS 189.990(1))
Statutory reference:
   Accident involving death or serious injury; penalty for not reporting, see
KRS 189.990
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
73.01   Operation of bicycles
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
73.03   Skating and coasting
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see § 70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on the bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any kind
to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
   
90.   ANIMALS
   
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
92.   NUISANCES
   
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
   
94.   LITTERING
   
95.   GUTHRIE HIGHLAND CEMETERY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
90.01   Definitions
90.02   Animals running at large
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
90.04   Torture of dogs or cats
90.05   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
90.06   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
90.07   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
90.08   Keeping of livestock restricted
90.09   Backyard chickens
Dogs and Cats
90.20   Definitions
90.21   License required
90.22   Wearing of tags
90.23   License and rabies tag to be attached to dog
90.24   Dogs or cats running at large
90.25   Noise disturbance
90.26   Animal Control Officer to take possession: entry on private property
90.27   Inhumane treatment
90.28   Impounding
90.29   Interference with Animal Control Officer
90.30   Conflict of powers or authority
Vicious Dogs; Dog Fighting
90.45   Definitions
90.46   Confinement of vicious dogs
90.47   Restraint of vicious dogs: leash and muzzle
 
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner or his or
her agent.
(KRS 257.010)
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by the animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including but not limited to being
a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal is caused to fight
for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other than a
dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space or
health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This paragraph shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (C)   (1)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense under
division (A) above arising from the person’s treatment of an equine, the court
may impose one or both of the following penalties against the person, in
addition to fines and imprisonment:
         (a)   An order that the person pay restitution for damage to the
property of others and for costs incurred by others, including reasonable
costs, as determined by agreement or by the court after a hearing, incurred in
feeding, sheltering, veterinary treatment and incidental care of any equine
that was the subject of the offense resulting in conviction; or
         (b)   An order terminating or imposing conditions on the person’s
right to possession, title, custody or care of any equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
      (2)   If a person’s ownership interest in an equine is terminated by a
judicial order under division (C)(1)(b) of this section, the court may order
the sale, conveyance or other disposition of the equine that was the subject of
the offense resulting in conviction.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Torture of dogs or cats, see §
90.04
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 TORTURE OF DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   As used in this section, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context otherwise requires.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY OR INFIRMITY. Physical injury or physical
infirmity that creates a substantial risk of death, protracted loss, or
impairment of the function of the limb or bodily organ caused by willful or
wanton disregard while restrained. As used in this definition:
         (a)   PHYSICAL INFIRMITY. Includes intentional starvation,
dehydration, hypothermia, hyperthermia, muscle atrophy, restriction of blood
flow to a limb or organ, mange or other skin disease or parasitic infestation
for which medical care has been denied, denial of life-saving medical care or
professional euthanasia while intentionally restraining with the intent to
cause or the wanton disregard for extreme physical pain, serious injury, or
death; and
         (b)   PHYSICAL INJURY. Includes substantial physical pain, serious
injury, or death intentionally caused by fractures, cuts, burns, punctures,
bruises due to crushing, burning, drowning, beating, poisoning, suffocating,
hanging, impaling or skinning alive, physical disfigurement, loss of function
of a limb or body organ or other wounds or illnesses produced by violence or a
thermal or chemical agent while intentionally restrained with the intent to
cause or the wanton disregard for extreme physical pain, serious injury, or
death.
      TORTURE. The intentional infliction of or subjection to extreme physical
pain or serious injury or death to a dog or cat, motivated by intent or wanton
disregard that causes, increases, or prolongs the pain or suffering of the dog
or cat, including serious physical injury or infirmity. TORTURE shall include
situations where the extreme physical pain, serious physical injury or
infirmity, or death results from restraint of the dog or cat, which may include
being:
         (a)   Locked in a cage or kennel;
         (b)   Sealed in a plastic bag or box;
         (c)   Chained or tied down to restrict motion;
         (d)   Pitched in a dumpster;
         (e)   Abandoned in a building for three days or more with no intention
of returning or having made provisions for the animal's care;
         (f)   Physically restrained with tie wraps, rope, chains, or tape;
         (g)   Intentionally injured to cause immobility so that the animal
cannot save itself from starvation, dehydration, physical impairment, serious
physical injury or infirmity, or death; or
         (h)   Manually restrained.
   (B)   A person is guilty of torture of a dog or cat when he or she without
legal justification intentionally tortures a domestic dog or cat.
   (C)   Torture of a dog or cat is a Class D felony.
   (D)   Each act of torture of a dog or cat may constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Under recommendation of a veterinarian, a tortured dog or cat may be
humanely euthanized after it is seized if it is still alive but suffering from
the intentional torture that will lead to its death.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing or injuring of a
dog or cat without intent to cause, or without wanton disregard of, increasing
or prolonging the pain, suffering, or death of the dog or cat:
      (1)   In accordance with a license to hunt, fish or trap;
      (2)   For humane purposes;
      (3)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes or breed-specific alterations such as cropping of ears, docking of
tails, or declawing of a cat, all done by a veterinarian;
      (4)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including, but not
limited to, training for organized dog or cat shows, or other animal shows in
which a dog or a cat, or both, participate;
      (5)   For bona fide animal research activities, using dogs or cats, of
institutions of higher education; or a business entity registered with the
United States Department of Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject
to other federal laws governing animal research;
      (6)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased dog or cat;
      (7)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
dog or cat;
      (8)   For animal or pest control; or
      (9)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (G)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife Resources shall not constitute a violation of this section.
   (H)   The acts specified in this section shall not constitute cruelty to
animals under KRS 525.125 or 525.130.
(KRS 525.135) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Torture of dogs and cats resulting in physical injury, second and subsequent
offenses, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.135
   Torture of dogs and cats resulting in serious physical injury or death, a
Class D felony, see KRS 525.135
§ 90.05 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, Animal Control Officer, or any person authorized by
the city may destroy or kill, or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian or of two reputable citizens called by him or her
to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his or her
agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may
be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of
as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
   (D)   Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100)
§ 90.08 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall henceforth be unlawful for any person to harbor or corral any
livestock within the city limits, for a continuous period of more than 24
hours, in an enclosure which is located within 300 feet of a residence which is
owned by someone other than the owner of the livestock. This prohibition shall
not apply if the enclosure in which the livestock is kept consists of an area
of more than two acres.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LIVESTOCK is defined as any animal which
will weigh more than 175 pounds as an adult, in addition to any of the
following: horses, chickens, roosters, cattle, swine, goats, sheep.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 9-10-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 BACKYARD CHICKENS.
   The keeping of poultry may be permitted subject to the following
restrictions, prohibitions and conditions.
   (A)   The keeping of domesticated hens (female chickens) shall be allowed in
the residentially zoned districts of the city.
   (B)   Other types of fowl and poultry, such as ducks, geese, quail, pigeons
or turkeys shall not be considered domesticated hens.
   (C)   Roosters shall be prohibited. Breeding of permitted hens shall be
prohibited on property premises. On-site slaughtering is prohibited.
   (D)   All domesticated hens shall be kept outside of a habitable structure
in a fenced chicken enclosure (chicken run), and a portion of the chicken
enclosure must include a covered chicken coop structure (henhouse). The chicken
coop shall provide at least two square feet per chicken and shall not exceed 50
square feet. The chicken enclosure shall provide at least six square feet per
bird, and the enclosure shall also include the coop within the enclosure and
the enclosure shall not exceed a total of 400 square feet. The maximum height
of the coop shall be no more than ten feet at the highest point as measured
from the ground directly beneath the highest point of the coop. The enclosure
and coop shall be located in the rear of the property ten feet away from the
rear property line, and ten feet away from any side property line. The coop
shall be covered and enclosed on all sides. The enclosure shall be open to the
air above, or the enclosure may be covered by permeable material. A maximum of
six chickens may be permitted on any parcel or tract of property.
   (E)   Any food storage shall be kept in air-tight, predator-proof and
weather-proof containers.
   (F)   There shall be a one-time permit application fee of $50 for any person
applying for a chicken permit. As a part of the permit process and at the time
of the permit application, the applicant shall provide a site drawing showing
the location of the proposed chicken enclosure and chicken coop in relationship
to the applicant’s real property line boundaries.
   (G)   The permit applicant must own and occupy the property for which the
permit is applied. The permit cannot be transferred or assigned to any person.
A permit shall expire upon the sale or other transfer of the property, or if
the permit holder ceases to reside at the property for which the permit was
granted.
   (H)   A permanent screening buffer shall be required. The screening buffer
shall be located no closer than the minimum front yard setback of the
applicant’s property. This permanent screening buffer may be a fence, shrubbery
or other similar structure or plant.
   (I)   The chicken coop and enclosure shall be well maintained and regularly
cleaned to control dust, odor and waste, in order to not constitute a nuisance,
safety hazard or health problem to surrounding property. As part of proper
maintenance, the permit holder must remove any chicken waste on a regular
basis, at least bi-weekly, and dispose of it in a proper manner. Chicken waste
includes excrement, uneaten feed, feathers or waste items. If the enclosure and
coop are not properly maintained and results in the occurrence of a nuisance,
the city may treat the nuisance as any other nuisance pursuant to existing law,
regardless if the permit holder has an otherwise valid permit.
   (J)   Any permit issued may be revoked by the city upon a finding of any
violation by any person of any provisions herein.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 9-10-2013)
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. For the purpose of this subchapter only, police
officers of the city, the appointed Animal Control Officer of the city, and the
County Dog Warden appointed pursuant to KRS Chapter 258.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the dog or cat owner and not under the
immediate effective control of the dog or cat owner or custodian either by
leash, cord, chain or other similar physical restraint, or effectively confined
within a fenced area on the dog or cat owner’s premises. For dogs or cats on
the premises of the dog or cat owner and not restrained as provided above, AT
LARGE shall mean beyond the dog or cat owner’s line of vision and voice
command.
   CAT. Any member of the feline family,
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
   DOG or CAT OWNER. Every person having a right of property in the dog or cat
and every person who keeps or harbors the dog or cat or has it in his or her
care or permits it to remain on or about premises owned or occupied by him or
her. If a dog or cat is owned by a family, all adult members of the family,
individually and jointly, shall be deemed OWNERS OF THE DOG OR CAT for the
purposes of this subchapter.
(2002 Code, § 90.15) (Ord. 1999-C-4, passed 10-26-1999)
§ 90.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in the city
without first obtaining a state dog license and a valid and current rabies tag
for each dog. This section and § 90.22 shall not apply to dogs whose owners are
nonresidents temporarily within the city for a period less than 30 days.
(2002 Code, § 90.16) (Ord. 1999-C-4, passed 10-26-1999) Penalty, see §
90.99 
§ 90.22 WEARING OF TAGS.
   All dogs kept in the city shall exhibit a current state dog license and
valid and current rabies tag.
(2002 Code, § 90.17) (Ord. 1999-C-4, passed 10-26-1999) Penalty, see §
90.99 
§ 90.23 LICENSE AND RABIES TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The state license tag and rabies tag shall be fastened to the collar of the
dog and shall be worn continuously, and the failure to have the tag so attached
shall subject the owner or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
(2002 Code, § 90.18) (Ord. 1999-C-4, passed 10-26-1999) Penalty, see §
90.99 
§ 90.24 DOGS OR CATS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Every dog or cat owner, harborer or person having the custody,
control, possession of any dog or cat shall keep such dog or cat confined to
the premises and property of the dog or cat owner, harborer or custodian,
except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   No dog or cat owner, harborer or person having the custody, control of
or possession of any dog or cat, shall permit, allow or suffer such dog or cat:
      (1)   To run or be at large as hereinbefore defined; or
      (2)   To go about or on the premises or property of any other person
within the city without the permission of such other person.
(2002 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. 1999-C-4, passed 10-26-1999) Penalty, see §
90.99  
§ 90.25 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity and duration as to disturb the
peace, quiet and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or more
separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain,
be lodged or fed within any dwelling, yard or enclosure which he or she
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
(2002 Code, § 90.20) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER TO TAKE POSSESSION; ENTRY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any and all dogs or cats found at large within the city or not wearing
a state license in violation of KRS 258.215, and a rabies tag, shall be taken
into custody by the Animal Control Officer, except as provided in division (B)
below.
   (B)   For the purposes of this subchapter, an Animal Control Officer shall
have specific authority to enter upon private property for the purpose of
inspecting or checking dogs and cats to determine if they are properly licensed
(city or state) and wearing a rabies tag, and take into custody any dog or cat
found at large within the city, or found upon the property of another other
than the dog or cat owner.
   (C)   An Animal Control Officer may use any reasonable means and force
necessary to take control and possession of dogs or cats found in violation of
this subchapter including, but not limited to, using tranquilizer guns or
devices. An Animal Control Officer shall not be liable, civilly or criminally,
for dogs or cats that unintentionally are injured or killed in the process of
taking control or possession of the animals as provided herein.
(2002 Code, § 90.21) (Ord. 1999-C-4, passed 10-26-1999)
§ 90.27 INHUMANE TREATMENT.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements. An
Animal Control Officer may enter the premises where any dog or cat is kept in a
reportedly cruel or inhumane manner and demand to examine such dog or cat, and
to take possession of such dog or cat, when in his or her opinion, it requires
humane treatment.
(2002 Code, § 90.22) (Ord. 1999-C-4, passed 10-26-1999)
§ 90.28 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   All dogs and cats taken into custody by an Animal Control Officer as
hereinbefore provided shall be impounded at the County Animal Shelter, except
as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   If a dog or cat is found on the premises of its owner, but is
unlicensed (city or state), or is found at large the Animal Control Officer
may, in his or her discretion, not impound the dog or cat, but in lieu thereof
issue a citation to the dog or cat owner for owning an unlicensed dog or cat,
or permitting the dog or cat to be at large.
   (C)   All dogs and cats impounded shall be handled or disposed of by state
law as provided by KRS Chapter 258 or other applicable state law or local law.
(2002 Code, § 90.23) (Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 1999-C-4, passed 10-26-1999)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or
prevent an Animal Control Officer of this city in the discharge of his or her
duties as herein prescribed.
(2002 Code, § 90.24) (Ord. 1999-C-4, passed 10-26-1999) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.30 CONFLICT OF POWERS OR AUTHORITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to conflict with any of the
powers or authority of police officers or dog wardens conferred by the
provisions of the state statutes.
(2002 Code, § 90.25) (Ord. 1999-C-4, passed 10-26-1999)
VICIOUS DOGS; DOG FIGHTING
§ 90.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department possessing
or harboring or having the care or custody of a dog.
   UNCONFINED. A vicious dog is UNCONFINED if the dog is not securely confined
indoors or confined in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure upon the
premises of the dog owner. The pen or structure must have secure sides and a
secure top attached to the sides. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured
to the sides, the sides must be embedded into the ground no less than one foot.
All such pens or structures must be adequately ventilated and kept in a clean
and sanitary condition.
   VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury to or otherwise threaten the safety of human beings
or domestic animals;
      (2)   Any dog which because of its size, physical nature and vicious
propensity is capable of inflicting serious physical harm or death to humans
and which would constitute a danger to human life or property if it were not
kept in the manner required by this subchapter;
      (3)   Any dog which, without provocation, attacks or bites, or has
attacked or bitten a human being or domestic animal; or
      (4)   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dog fighting, or any dog trained for dog fighting.
(2002 Code, § 90.26) (Ord. 1999-C-4, passed 10-26-1999)
§ 90.46 CONFINEMENT OF VICIOUS DOGS.
   The owner of a vicious dog shall not suffer or permit the dog to go
unconfined except as provided in § 90.28 below.
(2002 Code, § 90.27) (Ord. 1999-C-4, passed 10-26-1999)
§ 90.47 RESTRAINT OF VICIOUS DOGS; LEASH AND MUZZLE.
   The owner of a vicious dog hall not suffer or permit the dog to go beyond
the premises of the owner unless the dog is securely muzzled and restrained by
a chain, cord or leash and under the physical restraint of a person. The muzzle
shall be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere
with its vision or respiration, but shall prevent it from biting any human or
animal.
(2002 Code, § 90.28) (Ord. 1999-C-4, passed 10-26-1999)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
   (D)    Whosoever violates the provisions of §
90.08 shall be fined not more than $50 for each day §
90.08 is violated.
   (E)   Whosoever violates the provisions of §
90.09 shall be fined not more than $50 for each violation. Each day of
violation shall be deemed a separate violation.
   (F)   Any person who is issued a citation by an Animal Control Officer
pursuant to §
90.23(B), if found guilty shall be deemed to have committed a violation, and
shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense. Each day the violation
exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (G)   Any person whose dog or cat has been taken into custody by the Animal
Control Officer and/or turned over to the County Dog Warden pursuant to §
90.20 and/or impounded pursuant to §
90.20, and who reclaims said animal within the time permitted by law, and
retakes control or custody thereof, shall pay a charge to the city of $40 for
the return of said animal, plus any expenses which may have been incurred for
treatment of said animal by a veterinarian, or for charges incurred with the
kenneling of said animal for such time as it has been held for safe keeping
under the provisions of this chapter.
(2002 Code, § 90.99) (Ord. 1992-4-C, passed 9-14-1992; Ord. 1999-C-4, passed
10-26-1999; Ord. 2013-5, passed 9-10-2013; Ord. 2013-7, passed 9-10-2013)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
91.01   Opening permit required
91.02   Application and cash deposit
91.03   Restoration of pavement
91.04   Barriers around excavations
91.05   Warning lights
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
91.20   Public hearing required
91.21   Notice requirements
91.22   Public may testify; effect of testimony
91.23   Hearing to be held prior to construction
91.24   Separate hearing for each project not required
91.25   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
91.40   Unloading on street or sidewalk
91.41   Street and sidewalk obstruction
91.42   Materials on street or sidewalk
91.43   Removal of ice and snow
 
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see
Chapter 94
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 92
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the City Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the time
specified in the permit or, where not specified therein, within a reasonable
time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without notice to
make the fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except that part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk/Treasurer or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the City Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall furnish good and sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the
work. The Mayor, if authorized by City Council, may make separate contracts for
the different kinds of work with different parties.
Statutory references:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.20 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
monies for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.21 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.22 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 91.23 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided in this
subchapter has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.24 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.25 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters, nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.40 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see Chapter 94 of this code of ordinances
§ 91.43 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
92.01   Definitions
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
92.04   Responsibility of property owners; standards; declaration of nuisance
92.05   Prohibitions
92.06   Nuisance created by others
Administration and Enforcement
92.20   Abatement procedure
92.21   Enforcement officer; authority; interference prohibited
92.22   Suspension of license
92.23   Remedies; injunctive relief
 
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 through 411.570
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle that are
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   CITY. The City of Guthrie or the city’s authorized agent.
   DILAPIDATED STRUCTURE. Any structure which, for want of repairs, lack of
sufficient fire escapes, deterioration, the accumulation of trash, garbage or
debris, being a haven for insects, rodents or other vermin, is unsafe,
unsanitary, especially liable to fire loss, unfit for human habitation,
occupancy or use, or is dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the
occupants of the structure, the occupants of neighboring structures, or other
residents of the city.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NUISANCE. Public nuisance, or anything that, because of its condition is
unsafe, unsanitary, especially liable to fire loss, unfit or unsafe for human
habitation, occupancy or use, a haven for insects, rodents or vermin, or is
dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the occupants, neighboring
occupants or other residents of the city.
   OWNER. Any person or entity that possesses any interest in real estate or
any occupant of real estate.
   PROPERTY. Property owned by any person or entity, including, but not limited
to, land, yards, grounds, driveways, entrances or passageways, parking areas,
storage areas, bodies of water, sidewalks, grass strips and one-half of alleys,
together with all structures and improvements.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
(2002 Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 1995-C-5, passed 5-1-1995)
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of the state as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
(2002 Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 1995-C-5, passed 5-1-1995) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to
develop thereon.
   (B)   The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack or
other object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb or property of, or cause hurt,
damage or injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways
adjacent thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof;
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment
by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger that it will
catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents or insects, or
blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk or property of another;
      (3)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which
creates a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity;
      (4)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of 12 inches or more;
      (5)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place;
      (6)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks and drainage.
The growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interferes
with the use, construction or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes
injury to streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage;
      (7)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot
or other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors;
      (8)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in
an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile
parts or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by
the city for such purposes; and
      (9)   Dilapidated structure. As above described in §
92.01.
(2002 Code, § 92.03) (Ord. 1995-C-5, passed 5-1-1995) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS; STANDARDS; DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of all property owners
to maintain their property in a manner consistent with the standards and
definitions provided in this chapter. It shall be the responsibility of all
property owners to ensure that their property is properly maintained in such a
manner to prevent it from being declared a nuisance. Also, it shall be the
responsibility of each owner to notify the city of the proper mailing address
of all owners of the property within 30 days of the time when any addresses
change.
   (B)   Applicability. This chapter shall apply to all property in the city
and to every person or entity, who is an owner or occupant of property in the
city.
   (C)   Standards. The following standards shall be applicable to all property
within the city.
      (1)   All structures shall be properly maintained in a safe and sanitary
condition, fit for human habitation, occupancy or use, so as not to become
dilapidated or deteriorated.
      (2)   All structures shall be properly maintained so as not to be
especially liable to fire loss.
      (3)   All structures shall be properly maintained so as not to become
dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the occupants of the
structure, the occupants of neighboring structures, or other residents of the
city.
   (D)   Declaration of nuisance. Any property which fails to comply with the
standards set forth in this chapter and any structure which becomes dilapidated
may be declared a nuisance and the owner of said property shall be subject to
the provisions and penalties set forth herein.
(2002 Code, § 92.04) (Ord. 1995-C-5, passed 5-1-1995)
§ 92.05 PROHIBITIONS.
   The following actions are prohibited and considered unlawful within the
city.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any property in the city to
permit any structure upon the property to become unfit or unsafe for human
habitation, occupancy or use or to permit conditions to exist in the structure
which are dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the occupants of
the structure, the occupants of neighboring structures or other residents of
the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance, health
hazard or source of filth to develop thereon.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, harass or
otherwise impede an authorized agent or officer of the city when such agent or
officer is inspecting property, investigating possible violations or otherwise
enforcing this chapter.
(2002 Code, § 92.05) (Ord. 1995-C-5, passed 5-1-1995) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
(2002 Code, § 92.06) (Ord. 1995-C-5, passed 5-1-1995)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 92.20 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Permitting nuisance to develop prohibited. It shall be unlawful for
the owner, occupant or person having control or management of any land within
the city to permit a public nuisance, health hazard, dilapidated structure or
source of filth to develop thereon.
   (B)   Notice of nuisance situation; remedy. Whenever a nuisance situation is
discovered, the authorized city official shall give five days’ written notice
to remedy the nuisance situation. The notice shall be mailed to the last known
address of the owner of property, as it appears on the current tax assessment
roll. Upon the failure of the owner of the property to comply, the authorized
city official is authorized to send employees upon the property to remedy the
situation.
   (C)   Notice of violation. When any property is declared a public nuisance,
notice of the violation of this chapter shall be given as follows.
      (1)   Written notice of the violation and an order to remedy the
violation shall be delivered or sent by certified mail to the owner or
responsible person of the property.
      (2)   If the enforcement officer is unable to determine or locate the
owner or responsible person of the property, the notice of violation shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on or near the property, and it shall be
published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 in a newspaper of general circulation in
the county.
      (3)   Notice to any one owner of the property shall constitute notice to
all other owners of the same property.
      (4)   Notice mailed to an owner at the last address shown on the property
tax roll maintained by the city shall constitute notice to all owners of the
property. Each owner of property located in the city shall have a duty to
timely notify the city of the proper mailing address of the owners of the
property.
   (D)   Period to cure.
      (1)   In the written notice, the owner or responsible person shall be
afforded a period during which to cure the violation. The following periods to
cure shall apply:
         (a)   Public nuisance as described in §
92.03(B)(1) through (B)(8) shall be allowed five days to cure;
         (b)   Forty-five calendar days for dilapidated structures; and
         (c)   Ninety calendar days for structures damaged by fire.
      (2)   The enforcement officer may extend the period to cure for an
additional time not to exceed the original period. All periods to cure shall
begin when notice is mailed.
   (E)   Remedies. When any owner of property is found to be in violation of
any provision of this chapter, the city, in its discretion and without
obligation, may elect to pursue any or all remedies available in an effort to
cure the problem, including declaring the property a nuisance and, after
notice, proceeding to abate the nuisance; issuance of criminal citations;
seeking injunctive relief; or pursuing any other remedy available at law. The
election of one remedy shall not preclude the pursuit of any other.
   (F)   Hearing panel. By municipal order, the Mayor, with City Council
approval, shall appoint three individuals who shall constitute a Hearing Panel
for the purpose of conducting hearings pursuant to this chapter. Members of the
Hearing Panel may not be employees of the city and shall serve without
compensation. An enforcement officer shall not be a member of the Hearing
Panel.
   (G)   Hearing. Any owner of property declared a nuisance under this chapter
shall have the right to a hearing before the Hearing Panel. A hearing request
must be made within 15 calendar days of mailing the notice of violation. A
request for a hearing shall be timely submitted in writing, signed by the
requesting owner, containing the current mailing address and telephone number
of the requesting owner, and received by or delivered to the City Clerk/
Treasurer’s office no later than 15 calendar days following the date of mailing
the notice of violation. Upon receipt of a timely submitted written request for
hearing, the enforcement officer shall schedule a hearing before the Hearing
Panel as soon as reasonably possible. Written notice of the date, time and
location of the hearing shall be mailed to the owner or responsible person who
requested the hearing. At the hearing, both the owner or responsible person and
the enforcement office shall be allowed to present evidence and to cross-
examine witnesses. The rules of evidence shall not apply. At the conclusion of
the hearing, the Hearing Panel shall go into closed session, to discuss whether
the notice of violation and order to remedy was appropriate under the
circumstances. The decision of the Panel shall be made by majority vote and
announced in open session following deliberations. A written order containing
the findings and decisions of the Hearing Panel shall be filed with the City
Clerk/Treasurer and mailed to the owner within five business days following
announcement of the Panel’s decision.
   (H)   Abatement by city. If the owner or responsible person of property in
violation of this chapter fails to properly cure or remedy the violation within
the time prescribed in the notice, or within seven days following entry of an
order by the Hearing Panel upholding a notice of violation, whichever is later,
then the city, in its discretion and without obligation, may enter upon the
property and take such action as it deems appropriate to cure the violation and
abate the nuisance. Such action may include, the cutting or removing of grass
and weeds, the removal of trash, debris, garbage, refuse, materials, waste,
junk, litter and other matter constituting a violation, the repair of any
unsafe or unsanitary condition, and the demolition and removal of any
dilapidated structure.
   (I)   Lien. The city shall have a lien against the property for the
reasonable value of labor and materials used in remedying the nuisance
situation.
      (1)   The affidavit of the authorized city official shall constitute
prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the
proceedings pursuant to 65.8840(9) and this section, and shall be recorded in
the office of the County Clerk.
      (2)   The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its
recording and shall bear interest at the rate established by the city
thereafter until paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other
subsequent liens, except state, county, school board and city taxes, and may be
enforced by judicial proceeding.
      (3)   In addition to this remedy, or any other remedy authorized by law,
the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached pursuant to this
section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien, including all
interest, civil penalties and other charges and the city may bring a civil
action against the owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt owed.
(2002 Code, § 92.15) (Ord. 1995-C-5, passed 5-1-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of nuisance; enforcement ordinance; lien; personal liability of
property owner, see KRS 381.770
§ 92.21 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; AUTHORITY; INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Enforcement officer. The position of “enforcement officer” is created
for the purpose of administering and enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
By municipal order, the Mayor, with City Council approval, shall appoint one or
more officers or employees of the city to serve as the city’s enforcement
officer. The enforcement officer shall report directly to the Mayor.
   (B)   Authority. Authorized agents and officers of the city, including
without limitation, an enforcement officer, shall have the following authority:
      (1)   To enter upon property for the purpose of inspection and
enforcement of this chapter;
      (2)   To apply for and obtain a search warrant, if necessary;
      (3)   To declare property, structures and conditions on property to
constitute a nuisance;
      (4)   To issue notices of violation;
      (5)   To monitor property for compliance with a notice of violation;
      (6)   To file criminal complaints against owners and responsible persons
who violate this chapter;
      (7)   To recommend civil penalties for non-compliance with this chapter;
      (8)   To enter upon the property and to cause others to enter on the
property for the purpose of correcting a violation;
      (9)   To file a notice of lien against the property;
      (10)   To cause the lien to be enforced; and
      (11)   To do all other things and take all other actions reasonably
necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of, and to enforce, this chapter.
   (C)   Interference with enforcement agents prohibited. It shall be unlawful
for any person to interfere with, harass, or otherwise impede an authorized
agent or officer of the city when such agent or officer is inspecting property,
investigating possible violations, or otherwise enforcing this chapter.
(2002 Code, § 92.16) (Ord. 1995-C-5, passed 5-1-1995) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Defining Code Enforcement Officer, see KRS 65.8805(4)
   Establishment of reasonable abatement procedures by local government
ordinance for enforcement, see KRS 65.8840(7)
§ 92.22 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City Council that a
nuisance exists and the City Council deems that there is an immediate threat to
the public health, safety or welfare, the City Council may by majority vote
suspend the license of any person conducting business upon the premises where
the nuisance exists.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall cause notice of the suspension to be
served personally upon the licensee or at the premises where the nuisance
exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, the City Council may remove the
suspension upon such terms as it may direct.
(2002 Code, § 92.17) (Ord. 1995-C-5, passed 5-1-1995)
§ 92.23 REMEDIES; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   Nothing contained in § 10.99 shall prohibit the city from pursuing any other
remedy available, including, without limitation, applying for injunctive relief
or correcting the violation itself, after notice, as provided in this chapter
or any other law.
(2002 Code, § 92.18) (Ord. 1995-C-5, passed 5-1-1995)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day’s
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(2002 Code, § 92.99) (Ord. 1995-C-5, passed 5-1-1995)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
93.20   Blasting permit
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
93.22   Fire Prevention Code adopted by reference
 
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, FIREWORKS means any composition or
device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration or detonation, and which meets the definition of
“consumer fireworks” as defined in division (B) of this section or “display”
fireworks as defined in division (D) of this section and as set forth in the
U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials regulations.
FIREWORKS does not include:
      (1)   Exception number one. Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to those regulations, are not
considered to be FIREWORKS and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number two. Model rockets and model rocket motors
designed, sold and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models
are not considered to be FIREWORKS.
      (3)   Exception number three. Propelling or expelling charges consisting
of a mixture of sulfur, charcoal and saltpeter are not considered as being
designed for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, CONSUMER FIREWORKS means fireworks
that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and that comply with the construction, chemical
composition and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety
Commission. The types, sizes and amount of pyrotechnic contents of these
devices are limited as enumerated in this section. Some small devices designed
to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices, ground
devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and aerial
devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition. CONSUMER
FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in
CPSC, 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, are classified as Division 1.4G Class C
explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached which, upon ignition,
lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible effect is
produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several-second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term MINE refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term SHELL refers to a device
that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A mine or
shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in sequence
upon ignition of one external fuse. The term CAKE refers to a dense-packed
collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including lift
charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-quarter inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as common fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake- like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as
the pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes, producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match, a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams, may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means pyrotechnic
devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes, but is
not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130 milligrams)
of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of
pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as consumer fireworks. DISPLAY FIREWORKS are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500 and 1507, and
are classified as Class B explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items is as follows.
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale,
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) are not legal for retail sale but
are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the purposes
specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold at wholesale as
provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale, provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, copartnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail or keep with intent to sell, possess, use or explode
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city official may
grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the city, fair
associations, amusement parks and other organizations or groups of individuals.
Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to be approved
by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be of a
character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person. COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an employee
possessor. A permit under this division (A) shall be issued only to a competent
display operator holding an ATF license. At least one competent display
operator shall be on site during display set-up and firing. This competent
display operator shall maintain a copy of the permit application, as signed by
the local authority having jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site
and at all times the display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of
the State Fire Marshal or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require
issuance of a permit shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 – Code for Fireworks Display
(adopted edition). Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least
15 days in advance of the date of the display. After the privilege is granted,
sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be
lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this division shall be
transferable. For the purposes of this division (A), PUBLIC DISPLAY OF
FIREWORKS shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials
before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors. Any person remaining
within the display area shall be identified as licensed by the ATF, or an
employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to become a competent display
operator. All persons remaining within the display area shall be at least 18
years of age. The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division (A). The regulations shall address the process by
which permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary
to effectuate this division (A);
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit
as outlined in division (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present
the permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale;
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives;
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation and highway use;
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads;
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports;
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations;
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency; and
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
nonprofit or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks as
defined in KRS 227.702 and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B) may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the following requirements are met:
   (A)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in § 93.01(B) shall register annually with
the State Fire Marshal, who may assess a fee of no more than $25 for each site
at which fireworks shall be sold. The registration requirement under this
division (A) shall not apply to permanent business establishments which are
open year-round and in which the sale of fireworks is ancillary to the primary
course of business. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the
current rate imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200;
   (B)   Permanent business establishments open year-round and in which the
sale of consumer fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business shall
only be permitted to sell those consumer fireworks described in § 93.01(B), or
shall meet the criteria for “seasonal retailer” described in division (C) of
this section;
   (C)   SEASONAL RETAILERS shall be defined as any person, firm, co-
partnership, nonprofit or corporation intending to sell “consumer fireworks”
between June 10 and July 7, or December 26 and January 4 of each year or both,
and shall include permanent businesses, temporary businesses, stores, stands or
tents. A seasonal retailer shall register with the State Fire Marshal, who may
assess a fee of no more than $250 for each site at which fireworks shall be
sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate
imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200;
   (D)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit or corporation intending
to sell consumer fireworks, as defined in §
93.01(B) as the primary source of business, that is not a seasonal retailer as
defined in division (C) of this section, shall register with the State Fire
Marshal, who may assess a fee of no more than $500 for each site at which
fireworks will be sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at
the current rate imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200;
   (E)   The annual registration required by this section shall be received by
the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale at
the site for which the registration is intended. Evidence that a sales and use
tax permit has been obtained from the Department of Revenue shall be presented
to the State Fire Marshal as a condition of registration. If the registration
is received less than 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale at the site
for which registration is intended, an additional assessment of $100 shall be
added to the initial fee;
   (F)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall have its
registration certificate displayed in a conspicuous location at the site;
   (G)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) – Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition);
   (H)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age;
   (I)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under this section unless the individual is supervised by a parent
or guardian;
   (J)   The State Fire Marshal may revoke the registration of any site which
is in violation of a requirement of this section, or any other requirement
provided pursuant to this chapter. If the violation renders any property
especially susceptible to fire loss, and there is present such hazard to human
life or limb that the public safety imperatively requires emergency action, the
State Fire Marshal may take that action, as provided in KRS 227.330(6); and
   (K)   A person lawfully possessing consumer fireworks, as defined in §
93.01(B) may use those items if:
      (1)   He or she is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Fireworks are not ignited within 200 feet of any structure, vehicle
or any other person; and
      (3)   Use of the fireworks does not place him or her in violation of any
lawfully enacted local ordinance.
(KRS 227.715) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under § 93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond
or evidence of liability insurance deemed adequate by the official to whom
application for the permit is made, in a sum not less than $1,000,000. However,
the appropriate city official or the State Fire Marshal may require a larger
amount if in his or her judgment the situation requires it, conditioned for the
payment of all damages which may be caused thereby either to a person or to
property by reason of the permitted display, and arising from any acts of the
licensee, his or her agents, employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry; gold
star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate; toy snakes
which contain no mercury; smoke novelties and party novelties, which contain
less than twenty-five hundredths grain of explosive mixture; shells or
cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms; blank cartridges for a show or
theatre, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports, or for
use by military organizations; or the sale of any kind of fireworks, provided
the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “Display”
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) of this section shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting the permit, may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior or any material of
a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for these hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The State Standards of Fire Safety (Fire Prevention Code) as promulgated in
815 KAR 10:040 by the Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction on the advice and recommendation of the State Fire Marshal, is
hereby adopted in full as an ordinance of the city. Copies of the State
Standards of Fire Safety are available through the Department of Housing,
Buildings and Construction, 1047 U.S. 127 South, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601.
(2002 Code, § 93.22) (Ord. 99-C-3, passed 1-12-1999)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4))
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
94.03   Hauling loose material
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
94.05   Litter on private property
 
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley or other
public place mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk
or other public place shall haul it or cause it to be hauled in vehicles
provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of
the contents from falling or being thrown, blown or deposited upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place. Any materials which fall from or which
are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place shall be removed immediately by the person in
charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 95: GUTHRIE HIGHLAND CEMETERY
Section
95.01   Rates and charges
95.02   When cemetery open to public; in/out routes open for ceremonies
95.03   Arrangements for burials; grave openings and closures
95.04   Monument purchase and installation
95.05   Burial of pets prohibited
95.06   Plants or other ornaments on or near grave sites
95.07   Cemetery information
 
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Each cemetery lot, currently designed for four grave sites (16 feet by
18 feet) will be sold at a cost of $1,200 which must be paid at the time of
purchase. Arrangements for two grave lots may be made if needed. A certificate
of ownership will be issued on purchase of any lot.
   (B)   Summary of charges:
 
Type of Lot Purchase
4 grave     $1,200
2 grave     $600
 
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 95.02 WHEN CEMETERY OPEN TO PUBLIC; IN/OUT ROUTES OPEN FOR CEREMONIES.
   The cemetery will remain open to the public during daylight hours only. In/
out routes will be open only for ceremonies as arranges with the Police
Department.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 95.03 ARRANGEMENTS FOR BURIALS; GRAVE OPENINGS AND CLOSURES.
   (A)   All arrangements for burials on owned lots not made with local (Cook-
Webb) undertakers should be coordinated with Cook-Webb undertakers.
   (B)   All grave opening and closures are to be arranged by cemetery lot
owners with an authorized undertaker.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 95.04 MONUMENT PURCHASE AND INSTALLATION.
   Monument purchase and installation is a private transaction between lot
owner and monument contractors. All installed headstones/monuments must be
mounted on a concrete slab not less than four inches deep.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 95.05 BURIAL OF PETS PROHIBITED.
   Cemetery lots shall be used for burial purpose of human remains only (no
pets).
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 95.06 PLANTS OR OTHER ORNAMENTS ON OR NEAR GRAVE SITES.
   (A)   No shrubbery, evergreens, trees or similar plants shall be planted
upon the cemetery or upon or near any grave.
   (B)   All flowers not removed within seven days after the opening of a new
grave shall be removed.
   (C)   Glass containers are not permitted on grave sites.
   (D)   During mowing season, from May 1, to September 13, and with the
exception of the weekend of Memorial Day, no flowers (artificial or natural) or
other ornaments may be placed on the ground. They may only be placed on top or
securely attached to a headstone.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 95.07 CEMETERY INFORMATION.
   For information concerning the cemetery, contact the City Clerk/Treasurer
(270-483-2511).
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500.
(2002 Code, § 95.99)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
   
110.   BUSINESS LICENSE AND OCCUPATIONAL FEES
   
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
   
112.   PAWNBROKERS
   
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
   
114.   YARD AND SIDEWALK SALES
   
115.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSE AND OCCUPATIONAL FEES
Section
General Provisions
110.01   Definitions
110.02   Purpose; disposition of funds
110.03   License fee required for engaging in business
110.04   Attempting to avoid payment
110.05   Failure to obtain form no excuse
110.06   Exemptions
Imposition and Payment of License Fees
110.20   Imposition of license fee
110.21   Subject business entities; allocations
110.22   Specific business activities subject to license fee
110.23   Imposition of license fee for employees; subject compensations
110.24   Provisions relating to specific groups of employees
110.25   Regulatory license fees
110.26   Return and payment of tax
110.27   Collection at source; withholding
110.28   Return and payment of license fees withheld
Administration and Enforcement
110.40   Duties of Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector
110.41   Records to be kept
110.42   Collection of deficiencies; allowance of credit for overpayment
110.43   Confidential information
110.44   Delinquent license fees; interest
Specific Permit/License Fees
110.55   Restaurant/lodging license fee
110.56   Charitable gaming
 
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, joint venture or any other
form of unincorporated enterprise, owned or engaged in by two or more persons.
   BUSINESS. An enterprise, activity or undertaking of any nature conducted for
gain or profit, or conducted by an individual, co-partnership, association or
any other entity, but shall not include the usual activities or Board of Trade,
Chamber of Commerce, Trade Associations or Unions (or other associations
performing the services usually performed by trade associations or unions);
Community Chest Funds or Foundations; corporations or associations organized
and operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
education or civic purposes, or for the prevention of cruelty to children or
animals, or clubs or fraternal organizations operated exclusively for social,
literary, educational or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings or
income or receipts for such units, groups or organizations inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
   BUSINESS RECEIPTS. The sum total of gross receipts from sales plus gross
credit or charges for work done and performed or service rendered.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
law of the United States, the State of Kentucky or any other state, territory
or foreign country or dependency.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person engaging in or following any occupation, trade,
profession or activity within the meaning of that phrase as defined below in
this section.
   EMPLOYER. Any individual person, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental body or unit, or administration or agency, or any other entity,
who or that employs one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission or other
compensation basis.
   FIDUCIARY. A person who holds in trust, property, monies or properties, to
which another has a beneficial title or interest, or who receives and controls
income for another person or persons.
   GROSS SALES or GROSS INCOME. The gross sales or gross income from the
operation of a business or enterprise shall be the total amount of sales,
income or gross receipts, after deducting state sales tax, as is reported for
federal income tax purposes or as otherwise shown on the records of the subject
taxpayer.
   LICENSEE. Any person required to file a return or to pay a license fee under
this chapter.
   OCCUPATIONS, TRADE, PROFESSIONS OR ANY OTHER ACTIVITY. The doing of any kind
of work, the rendering of any kind of personal service, or the holding of any
kind of position or job within the city, by any clerk, laborer, tradesperson,
manager, official or other employee, including any nonresident of the city who
is employed by an employer as defined in this section, where the relationship
between the individual performing the services and the person for whom such
services are rendered is, as to those services the legal relationship of
employer and employee, including also a partner of a firm or an officer of a
firm or a corporation if such a partner or officer receives a salary for his
personal services rendered in the business of such firm or corporation, and
shall also include elected or appointed, whether federal, state, county or
city, officers and employees, where the services of such official or employees
are rendered within the city.
   PAYROLLS. The total wages, salaries and other personal service compensation.
   PERSON. Any natural person, co-partnership, fiduciary, association or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any clause prescribing and
imposing a penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as
applied to a partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean
the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the
officers and directors thereof.
   SALARIES, WAGES, COMMISSIONS AND OTHER COMPENSATIONS. The total gross amount
of all salaries, wages, commissions, bonuses, corporate dividends paid in lieu
of salaries or wages, and any and all other payments or other consideration
which a person receives from, or is entitled to, for any work done or personal
services rendered in any trade, occupation or profession or any other activity,
including all deductions whether for tax, insurance or other. Amounts paid to
traveling salespersons or other workers as an allowance or reimbursement for
travel or other expenses incurred in the business of the employer, except that
the excess of such amounts over such expenses actually incurred and accounted
for by the employee to his or her employer are excluded from the foregoing
definition.
   TREASURER. The City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector.
(2002 Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 110.02 PURPOSE; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   All monies derived from license fees under the provisions of this
chapter shall be paid to the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector and placed to
the credit of the General Revenue Fund of the city and shall be used and
expended in defraying current, general and incidental expenses of the city.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide revenue for the General
Fund of the city and it is not the intention of the city or this chapter to
impose any occupational license fee prohibited by law.
(2002 Code, § 110.02) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 110.03 LICENSE FEE REQUIRED FOR ENGAGING IN BUSINESS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, association, corporation or other
entity, to engage in any occupation, trade or profession or other activity in
the city without first having paid the license fees herein required.
   (B)   There shall be a penalty of 5% per month (up to a maximum of 25%) of
the amount of any license fee herein imposed if the license fee is not paid on
or before the date same shall have become due.
   (C)   Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to pay the fees as herein
prescribed, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine as set forth in §
110.99.
(2002 Code, § 110.03) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 ATTEMPTING TO AVOID PAYMENT.
   Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to make any return required by
this chapter or any employer who shall fail to withhold the license fee or to
pay over to the city those so withheld under the terms of this chapter, or any
person who shall refuse to permit the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector or any
agent or employee designated by him or her in writing to examine books, records
and papers pertaining to information under this chapter, or who shall knowingly
make any incomplete, false or fraudulent return, or shall attempt to do
anything whatever to avoid the payment of the whole or any part of the license
fee shall become liable to the city for such fees as well as the interest and
penalty thereof and shall in addition, upon conviction, be subject to a fine or
imprisonment as set forth in §
110.99.
(2002 Code, § 110.04) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 FAILURE TO OBTAIN FORM NO EXCUSE.
   The failure of any employer or license payer to receive or procure returns
or other forms is not an excuse for failure to make any return, or to pay the
license fee.
(2002 Code, § 110.05) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 110.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing and/or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
(2002 Code, § 110.06) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994)
   Exemptions from city taxation in urban-county government and city of home
rule class, see KRS 92.300(2) and (3)
IMPOSITION AND PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES
§ 110.20 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed an annual license fee upon all
persons, associations, corporations or other activity in the city for the
privilege of engaging in such occupation, trade, profession or other activity
which license fee shall be measured by, and be equal to 2% of the gross
salaries, wages, commissions and other compensations earned by such persons for
the work done or services performed or rendered in the city, and 0.15% of all
gross sales or gross income (after deductions for state sales tax) of all
businesses, professions or occupations from activities conducted in the city,
with a cap of $2,500.
   (B)   Where such salaries, wages, commissions and other compensations or
gross receipts are earned for work done or services performed or rendered both
within and without the city, the license fee shall be measured by such part of
the salaries, wages and commissions and other compensation and gross receipts
as is earned as a result of work done or services performed or rendered in the
city.
(2002 Code, § 110.15) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994; Ord. 2018-3, passed 2-
28-2018)
§ 110.21 SUBJECT BUSINESS ENTITIES; ALLOCATIONS.
   (A)   In the case of an individual, partnership, association, corporation,
fiduciary or other entity engaged in the conduct, operation or prosecution of
any business, profession or any other enterprise, there is imposed an annual
fee of 0.15% of all gross sales or gross income of such business.
   (B)   A business entity within the meaning of §§ 110.01 and 110.20 which has
a branch or branches, office or offices, or store or stores, warehouse or other
place or places in which the entity’s business is transacted, located in the
city, shall be considered to be conducting, operating, prosecuting or carrying
on a trade, business, profession, enterprise, undertaking or other activity to
the full extent of the sum total of all transactions, originating or
consummated in, by, or through such Guthrie branch, office, store, warehouse or
other place of business including: billings made on such transactions; or
services rendered; or shipments made; or goods, chattels, merchandise and the
like, sold; or commissions, fees or other remunerations or payments earned as
determined by division (D) below. The absence of a branch office, store,
warehouse or other permanent place of business within the city shall not exempt
or render nonlicensable the gross sales or gross income of any trade, business,
profession, enterprise or other activity on which a license fee is imposed by
this chapter.
   (C)   In the case of a partnership, association or other unincorporated
business owned by one or more persons, the license fee generally shall be upon
the partnership, association or business enterprise as an entity and not
ordinarily upon the partners or members thereof.
   (D)   Business allocation shall be as follows:
      (1)   Receipts from the following are allocable to the city.
         (a)   Sales of the licensee’s tangible personal property delivered to
the buyer within the corporate limits of the city.
         (b)   Work done and performed or services rendered in the city. (See
division (F)(3) below.)
         (c)   Rentals from property situated in the city where the rental of
such property is a business activity.
         (d)   All other business receipts earned in the city.
      (2)   All receipts of the period covered by the report (computed on the
cash or accrual basis, in accordance with the method of accounting used in the
computation of the license payer’s entire net income) must be taken into
account.
      (3)   In case it shall appear to the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector
that any agreement, understanding or arrangement exists between the license
payer and any other person, firm or corporation, whereby the activity, business
or gross receipts of the license payer is improperly or inaccurately reflected,
the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector may adjust items of gross receipts so as
equitably to determine the license fee.
   (E)   The term COMPENSATION, as used in this section of the chapter, may
include not only payment in case of property, but the gross credits to or
charges by the licensee under its normal and usual accounting practices, for
the performance of work or services. For example, a plant, a factory or other
establishment in the city which processes material or manufactures parts for
other plants or factories owned by the licensee, and which may receive credit
for the performance of such services only by bookkeeping entries, may be
chargeable under this section with the gross amount of such entries and such
bookkeeping entries may be considered in lieu of cash or property payment in
determining the gross receipts of any license payer under this chapter.
      (1)   Compensation and other receipts from work done or services
performed within the city are allocable to the city and subject to the taxes
imposed under this chapter. All amounts so received, credited or charged by
licensee in payment for such work or services are so allocable, irrespective of
whether done or performed by employees or agents of licensee, by subcontractors
or by any other persons. It is immaterial where such amounts were payable or
where they were received.
      (2)   Commissions or fees received by the licensee are allocated to the
city if the services for which the commissions were paid were performed in the
city. If the licensee’s services for which commissions or fees were paid were
performed by salespersons, or other agents or employees attached to, or working
out of, a city place of business of the licensee, the licensee’s services will
be deemed to have been performed in the city.
      (3)   Where a lump sum is received by the licensee in payment for
services within and without the city, the amount attributable to services
within the city is to be determined on the basis of the relative values of, or
amounts of time spent in the performance of, such services within and without
the city, or by some other reasonable method approved by the City Clerk/
Treasurer/Tax Collector. Full details must be submitted with the licensee’s
report.
      (4)   All business receipts earned by the city licensee within the city
are allocable to the city; however, business receipts are not considered to
have been earned by the licensee in the city solely by reason of the fact that
they were payable in, or actually received in the city.
      (5)   Receipts for sales of capital assets (property not held by the
licensee for sale to customers in regular course of business) are not business
receipts. Receipts from the sale of real property held by the licensee as a
dealer for the sale to customers in the regular course of business are business
receipts and are allocable to the city, if the real property was situated in
the city. Receipts from sales of intangibles included in business capital, held
by the licensee as a dealer for sale to customers in the regular course of
business, are business receipts and are allocable to the city, if the sales
were made in the city or through a regular place of business of the licensee in
the city.
   (F)   Employees within the city include all employees regularly connected
with a place of business maintained by the licensee in the city. Where an
employee performed services both within and without the city, the amount
treated as compensation for service performed within the city shall be deemed
to be:
      (1)   In case of an employee whose compensation depends directly on the
volume of business secured by him or her, such as a salesperson on a commission
basis, the amount received by him or her for the business attributable to his
or her efforts within the city;
      (2)   In the case of an employee whose compensation depends on other
results achieved, the proportion of the total compensation which the value of
his or her services within the city bears to the value of all his or her
services; and
      (3)   In the case of an employee compensated on a time basis, the
proportion of the total amount received by him or her which the working time
employed in the city bears to the total working time.
(2002 Code, § 110.16) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 110.22 SPECIFIC BUSINESS ACTIVITIES SUBJECT TO LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The income received from the operation of real estate by persons,
trust companies and real estate agents, for, or on behalf of persons (or
estates) are subject to the license fee imposed by this chapter, where such
operation falls within the classes herein described:
      (1)   Warehouses, apartment hotels and similar structures. The operation
of these types of buildings constitutes a subject activity and the income
thereof is subject to the fee imposed by this chapter;
      (2)   Apartment houses, single dwellings and other rental property. As to
this type of real estate, the income derived therefrom is considered subject
when the operation thereof is so extended as to constitute an “activity” within
the meaning of this chapter, and if such “activity” requires at least 20% of a
person’s activity time, then he will be presumed to be engaged in the real
estate business. To the extent that a person is engaged in managing real estate
for at least 20% of this activity time, he is engaged in the real estate
business. This does not preclude an inquiry into each particular case, if it is
considered necessary; and
      (3)   All corporations engaged in the rental of real estate or
partnerships organized for that purpose shall be considered to be in a subject
activity.
   (B)   The following business activities are specifically, but not
exclusively subject to the license fee:
      (1)   Trusts. Whenever a trust estate is engaged in an enterprise,
activity or business, which is productive of income, the activity or business
shall be considered subject to the license fee;
      (2)   Trading and securities. Where a person engages in buying and
selling of stocks, bonds or other types of securities and such transactions are
not isolated and few, but are extended so as to constitute an activity the
gross sales or gross income therefrom are subject to the license fee;
      (3)   Fiduciary. Monies received by a fiduciary is subject income, where
a fiduciary is regularly engaged in a business or profession as a fiduciary or
is engaged in a business or profession commonly regarded as being incidental or
collateral thereto, for example, an attorney-at-law, real estate agent and the
like; or if such commissions or fees represent a substantial portion of the
earnings or income of the fiduciary’s available working time; and
      (4)   Independent contractor. An independent contractor is a person who,
while performing services for another, is not under the direction and control
of such other person as to the result to be accomplished by the work as to the
details and means by which that result is accomplished, such as authors,
professional persons, seamstresses, laundresses, tailors, registered nurses.
The income received by such persons is subject to this license fee.
(2002 Code, § 110.17) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 110.23 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE FOR EMPLOYEES; SUBJECT COMPENSATIONS.
   (A)   The license fee is imposed on both residents and nonresidents of the
city at the rate of 2% of all salaries, wages, commissions and other
compensations earned for work done or services performed or rendered in the
city.
   (B)   The following are subject to the license fee:
      (1)   Salaries, bonuses or incentive payments received by an individual,
whether directly or through an agent and whether in cash or in property, for
services rendered:
         (a)   As an officer, agent or employee, or both of a corporation
(including a corporation or the first of non-profit class), joint stock
association or joint stock company;
         (b)   As an officer, agent or employee (as distinguished from a
partner or a member), or a partnership or any other form of unincorporated
enterprise owned by one or more persons;
         (c)   As an agent employee (as distinguished from the proprietor) of a
business, trade or profession, conducted by an individual owner;
         (d)   As an officer, agent or employee (whether elected or appointed,
enlisted or commissioned) of a governmental administration, agency, arm,
authority, board, body, branch, bureau, department, division, section or unit
of the state, of any of the political subdivisions, thereof, or those of any
other state or commonwealth;
         (e)   As an officer, agent or employee (whether elected or appointed)
of a governmental administration, agency, arm, authority, board, body, branch,
bureau, department, division, section or unit of the United States Government
or of a corporation created and owned or controlled by the United States
Government or any of its agencies, or those of any foreign country or
dependency except those enlisted or commissioned in the military service; and
         (f)   As an officer, agent or employee of any other entity.
      (2)   Wages, bonuses or incentive payments received by an individual,
whether directly or through an agent and whether in cash or in property for
services rendered, whether based upon hourly, daily, weekly, semi-monthly,
monthly, annual, unit of production or piece work rates.
      (3)   Commissions and fees received by an individual, whether directly or
through an agent and whether in cash or in property, for services rendered
regardless of how computed or by whom paid. (If amounts received as a drawing
account exceed the commissions on fees earned, the tax is payable on the
amounts received.) If such commissions or fees are included in the gross
receipts of a trade, business or profession regularly carried on by such
individual and therefore subject to all license fees computed on the gross
sales or gross income, they shall not again be separately taxed.
      (4)   Fees paid to a director or an officer of a corporation are subject
to withholding as in the case of any other employee.
   (C)   Other compensations which will be treated as subject to withholding
the license fee include the following:
      (1)   Tips received by waiters and others. Tips received are subject to
the license fee and will be reported in the same manner as other earnings of an
employee.
      (2)   Vacation or holiday benefits. Payments made to employees by an
employer as vacation wages are subject.
      (3)   Separations payments. Payments made to employees by an employer at
the time of voluntary or involuntary separation (dismissal) of the employee
from the service of the employer, are to be regarded as subject to the license
fee.
   (D)   The following money receipts are not deemed to be “salaries, wages,
commissions and other compensations and gross sales and gross incomes” within
the meaning of this chapter:
      (1)   Old age or retirement. Periodic payments, commonly recognized as
old age or retirement pensions, made to persons retired from service after
reaching a specified age or after a stated period of employment, are not
subject to the license fee;
      (2)   Disability, sickness, accident benefit and unemployment
compensation. Payments made to employees by an employer under a disability,
sickness and accident plan, are not subject to the license fee, unemployment
compensation payments by the state, or any other agency are not subject;
      (3)   Death benefits. Death benefits payable by an employer to the
beneficiary of an employee or to his estate, whether payable in a single sum or
otherwise, are not subject to the license fee; and
      (4)   Benefits arising under Worker’s Compensation Act. Amounts received
by employees under the Worker’s Compensation Act, being KS Chapter 342 as
compensation for a disability sustained during the course of employment,
together with any amount of damages received by suit or agreement on account of
such disability, are not subject to the license fee.
   (E)   In cases of individuals whose compensation is earned for services
performed both within and without the city and who receive subject payments as
set forth in the foregoing rules and regulations, they are subject to the
license fee in the same proportion that services performed within the city bear
to their total employment time.
(2002 Code, § 110.18) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994; Ord. 2018-3, passed 2-
28-2018)
§ 110.24 PROVISIONS RELATING TO SPECIFIC GROUPS OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Musicians and entertainers.
      (1)   In the field of professional musicians, there has arisen a practice
peculiar to the engagement of musicians exclusively through a so-called
“contractor.” The practice which arose by prescription by the American
Federation of Musicians and of local union regulations, enables the purchaser
of music to deal with only one of the number of musicians required for a
particular occasion.
         (a)   Contractor. The term CONTRACTOR means that individual musician
through whom the purchaser and the musician negotiated the contract of service
and performance thereof. The contractor may or may not perform actual musical
service under a contract which he or she has negotiated.
         (b)   Purchaser of music. The person, partnership, organization or
association for whom or which the musical services are to be performed or
furnished and who exercise an employee’s control over the conduct of the
musicians. For example, hotels, cafés, taprooms, restaurants, theaters, clubs,
radio stations and radio sponsors.
         (c)   Name bands or orchestras. A name band or orchestra is one which
is identified or known by a name and which holds itself out to the public as a
permanent organization, and in addition thereto has either: a fixed personnel;
or the individual member musician has contracted for his or her services with
the leader or the owner of the band at a fixed salary by term or by individual
engagement, and over whom the purchaser has no direct control.
      (2)   When a contract for the purchase of music has been executed between
a purchaser and a contractor, the musician shall be deemed to be the employee
of the purchaser, except in the case of name bands, in which event the
musicians shall be deemed employees of the leader or owner of the name band.
      (3)   The purchaser, and in the case of a name band, the leader or owner
thereof, shall be the person responsible for withholding the license fee from
the wages paid to the musicians and the remittal thereof to the City Clerk/
Treasurer/Tax Collector.
      (4)   An entertainer other than a musician is usually engaged by a
purchaser through a booking agent. The booking agent, once the contract of
employment has been executed, does not exercise an employer’s control over the
entertainer. The owner of a club, café, taproom, theater or any place which
furnishes entertainment to the public or to its patrons, shall be deemed the
person liable as an employer of entertainers. Such employer must deduct the
license fee from the compensation paid to the entertainer and remit the same to
the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector.
   (B)   Insurance agents.
      (1)   Employees or contractors. Individuals engaged in the sale of
insurance may be either employees or independent contractors.
         (a)   Where the individual is subject to the direct control of another
as to the manner of his or her conduct and is paid a fixed fee, he or she is
considered a employee, and not subject to the privilege license tax, and the
amount of the license shall be withheld at the source.
         (b)   Where the individual is not under the direct control of another
and may conduct the sale as he or she sees fit, receiving his or her payment in
the form of commission from the sale, he or she is considered an independent
contractor and shall file his or her own return and make payment as an
independent contractor.
      (2)   Commissions subject to license fee.
         (a)   In determining whether the commissions payable by reasons of the
selling of any policy by an agent resulted from work done or services performed
or rendered in the city, the test shall be the residence of the insured at the
time of issuance of the policy, rather than the actual place of solicitation,
except where the solicitation is in the city and the agent’s established place
of business is within the city, the commission is subject to the license fee
regardless of the residence of the insured.
         (b)   If an agent has an office outside the city as well as an office
of his or her own within the city, the commission on policies sold to
nonresidents handled through the outside office are not subject to a license
fee, since under such circumstances, they are not gross sales or gross income
of an independent city business.
      (3)   Group insurance commissions. Commissions paid on the sale of
contracts of group insurance are subject if the group is located within the
city as a unit without regard to the residence of the writing agent.
      (4)   Bonuses and incentive payments subject to license fee. The
proportionate part of all bonuses and incentive payments received by an agent,
which bears the same ratio to the total amount of bonuses and incentive
payments received by him or her as the amount of commissions received by him or
her on policies sold to residents, bears to the total amount of commissions
received by him or her on all policies sold, to both residents and
nonresidents, is subject to the license fee.
      (5)   Advances and drawing accounts. There are two main types of advances
and drawing account payments: those which impose upon the agent a written
obligation to repay, if they are not in fact earned; those which (though offset
by commissions as earned) cannot be recovered at law even though the agent
fails to produce enough business to justify them. The first of these two types
of advance and drawing account payments is in the nature of a loan and
accordingly is never subject to a license fee. All commissions or bonuses
applied toward the repayment of these types of advances and drawing accounts
are subject in accordance with the rules set forth above. The second type of
advance and drawing account payment is subject compensation when received to
the extent that it exceeds compensation earned after July 15, 1994.
      (6)   Collection of license fee at source. It is the duty of all
companies doing business in the city (or general agents in the case of agents
whose contracts are with a general agent alone and to whom payment is made by
general agent out of funds of general agent) to deduct or withhold monthly or
more often the amount of license fee due on all compensation paid to agents who
are considered employees.
   (C)   Federal, state or municipal employees.
      (1)   Compensation received from the federal government for services
performed within any federal reservation situated within the geographical
limits of the city, title to which is in the federal government, is subject
income, even though exclusive jurisdiction thereof was granted to the federal
government by the state and the city.
      (2)   Compensation received from state, county and municipal government
agencies is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Refund of tax withheld and paid covering activities outside the
city will be made upon application to the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector.
   (D)   Real estate salespersons and brokers.
      (1)   Real estate salespersons or brokers who are engaged in the business
as employees rather than an independent contractor, are not required to file a
return for the commissions earned by them. The employer is required to deduct
the fee from the commissions earned and remit the same to the City Clerk/
Treasurer/Tax Collector.
      (2)   Real estate salespersons or brokers acting as independent
contractors are subject to a license fee on their gross receipts in accordance
with the rules and regulations herein pertinent.
   (E)   Tailors. Tailors who receive work to perform in their own shops for a
specified amount to be paid for each garment are independent contractors.
   (F)   Nurses.
      (1)   A registered nurse (except as provided below) is in the same status
as any other professional person and is required to file a return upon her
gross receipts.
      (2)   A registered nurse regularly employed by a hospital, institution,
business entity or individual is not subject to the business privilege license
tax.
   (G)   Executives and directors. An officer or director of a corporation
performing services out of the city, except for occasional visits to the city
office to examine correspondence, and the like, is not subject to the license
fee. Where an organization meets in the city, and part of the work required as
officer or director of such organization is done by him or her in the city, his
or her compensation is subject in the ratio that those duties bear to his or
her total duties.
   (H)   Domestic servants. Domestic servants employed in private homes are not
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Miscellaneous.
      (1)   Where compensation is received (paid) in property, its fair market
value, at the time of receipt, shall be subject to a license fee or to
withholding (deduction of fee at source). Board and lodging and similar items
shall be included in earnings at their fair market value, where such board and
lodging is considered part of the compensation paid. However, the value
accepted for the purpose of the state and federal payroll taxes may be accepted
by the Director of Finance.
      (2)   In the case of employees who incur and pay expenses directly
connected with the performance of their duties or services and for which no
reimbursement is made by the employer the reasonable actual expenses incurred
and paid in earning the compensation may be deducted in computing the amount
subject to the license fee. To be allowed, however, such expenses must be
recognized as deductions by federal and state authorities for income tax
purposes.
      (3)   Such items as personal, family or living expenses, expenses of
commuting to and from work, old age benefits taxes, deductions for group
insurance, hospitalization, pension plans and the like, are not deductible as
expenses directly connected with the performance of service.
(2002 Code, § 110.19) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 110.25 REGULATORY LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The City Council hereby finds that the following activities are of
such a nature as to require special regulation and supervision and therefore
the following minimum license fees are imposed on every person, corporation,
association and the like engaged in the activities named in this section who
shall pay in advance to the city for each calendar year (or fraction thereof)
the license fee or fees herein set forth.
      (1)   In the event that a licensee engaged in one of the following
activities would be subject to a higher license fee under other provisions of
this chapter (0.15% of gross sales or gross income), the higher license fee
shall apply.
      (2)   In no event shall any minimum fee set forth under this section be
reduced for the reason that the business or activity covering same shall have
been commenced subsequent to January 1 of the tax year.
   (B)   Types of activities covered are as follows.
      (1)   For the purpose of raising revenue, for exercising supervisory
regulation over motor trucks used for public drays, or for individual or
corporate business, or for public hire and other freight carrying vehicles used
as public drays in the city, and for policing the city, regulating motor
traffic therein, and maintaining and keeping in repair the public ways thereof
there is hereby levied and imposed and ordered to be collected from each
person, firm or corporation operating any kind of motor truck or trucks, or
other motor vehicles as public drays or for individual or corporate business or
for public hire by hauling into or out of, or loading or unloading, in the city
a tax as privilege license on said trucks, in the sum of $25 yearly. Any truck
or delivery wagon used exclusively for transporting unprocessed material or
produce to a market within the city, any truck or delivery wagon used
exclusively for transporting merchandise purchased or procured in the city to a
point within or outside of the city shall be exempt from the payment or the
privilege license.
      (2)   Every person, firm or corporation conducting or engaging in the
business of operating, renting, leasing, selling, distributing or installing
any machine, board, table or device where same is operated by the insertion of
a coin or any counter device, either coin-operated or otherwise, used for
amusement or skill, except those used solely for the purpose of vending chewing
gum, peanuts, candy, cigarettes or other merchandise and about which there is
no element of amusement or skill, shall pay a license fee of $10 per machine,
per year. The license shall be publicly displayed on each machine.
(2002 Code, § 110.20) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.26 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Licensees subject to rate as percentage of gross sales or income.
      (1)   Every person, association, corporation or other entity whose gross
sales or gross income is subject to the license fee imposed by this chapter
shall, on or before           of each year, make and file a return with the
City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector. In the return filed, there shall be set
forth the aggregate amount of gross sales or gross income (all defined in §
110.01) during the preceding year within the city and subject to the license
fee, together with such other pertinent information as the City Clerk/
Treasurer/Tax Collector may require.
      (2)   The return shall also show the amount of the license fee imposed by
this chapter on such gross sales or gross income.
      (3)   The person making the return shall, at the time of filing thereof,
pay to the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector the amount of fee shown to be due
by the return.
      (4)   Each person, association, corporation or other entity engaged in
any business, trade, profession or other activity in the city (other than those
activities referred to in §
110.20 to require special regulation and supervision) shall pay a license fee
to the city for each calendar year or any fraction thereof. The license fee for
each succeeding calendar year (or any fraction thereof) shall be 0.15% of the
gross sales or gross income of the licensee during the preceding calendar year
of the licensee’s fiscal year ending therein. The minimum license fee imposed
upon such gross sales or gross income by this chapter shall be $50 and the
maximum license fee so imposed shall be $2,500 for each calendar year of any
fraction thereof.
      (5)   Any business or activity commencing or becoming subject to this
license fee after the due date established in division (A)(1) above shall file
the return and pay the required fee in advance of engaging in such business or
activity.
   (B)   Employees subject to rate as percentage of earnings.
      (1)   Every person whose earnings are subject to the license fee imposed
by this chapter shall on or before January 31 of each year make and file a
return with the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector. In the return filed, there
shall be set forth the aggregate amount of salaries, wages, bonuses, incentive
payments, commissions, fees and other compensation received (all as herein
defined) during the preceding year within the city and subject to the license
fee, together with such other pertinent information as the City Clerk/
Treasurer/Tax Collector may require.
      (2)   Where the entire earnings for the year are paid by one or more
employers and the license fee has in each instance been withheld or deducted by
the employer from the gross amount of compensation without adjustment for
expenses it shall not be necessary for such employee to file a return for the
year unless required or requested to do so by the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax
Collector.
      (3)   The return shall also show the amount of the license fee imposed by
this chapter on such earnings.
      (4)   The person making the return shall, at the time of filing thereof,
pay to the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector, the amount of fee shown to be
due by the return.
      (5)   Where any portion of the license fee otherwise due shall have been
deducted at the source and shall have been paid to the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax
Collector by the person making the deduction, a credit equal to the amount so
paid shall be deducted from the amount shown to be due and only the balance, if
any, shall be due and payable at the time of the filing of the return.
(2002 Code, § 110.21) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.27 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; WITHHOLDING.
   (A)   It is the duty of each employer (as defined in §
110.01) who employs one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission or other
compensation basis, to deduct at the time of the payment of such compensation,
the license fee imposed by this chapter on such salary, wage, bonus, incentive
payment, commission or other compensation due by the employer to the employees.
The license fee shall be deducted by the employer from all compensation paid to
employees for activities in the city. However, the mere fact that the license
fee is not withheld will not relieve the employee of the responsibility of
filing a return and paying the fee on the compensation received. A nonresident
employer, who maintains an office in the city, or a business address in the
city, or is otherwise doing business therein, or is subject to service of legal
process therein, is subject to the withholding provisions of this action.
   (B)   Where an employee receives compensation for personal services rendered
or performed partly within and partly outside the city, the withholding agent
shall deduct and withhold that portion of the compensation which is earned
within the city in accordance with the following rules of apportionment:
      (1)   If the licensee is a traveling salesperson, agent or other
employee, whose compensation on the basis of commission depends directly upon
the volume of business transacted by him or her, the deducting and withholding
shall apply to that portion of the compensation earned by him or her bearing
the same ratio to his or her total compensation as the volume of business
transacted by him or her within the city bears to the total volume of business
transacted by him or her.
      (2)   The deducting and withholding of personal service compensation of
all other employees (including officers of corporations) shall apply to that
portion of the personal service compensation of such employee bearing the same
ratio to his or her total compensation as the total number of working days
employed within the city bears to the total number of working days employed
within and outside the city.
      (3)   If it is impossible to apportion the earnings as provided above
because of the peculiar nature of the services of the employee or of the
unusual basis of compensation, apportionment shall be made in accordance with
the facts, and the fee shall be deducted and withheld accordingly. With respect
to each such employee (or group of employees similarly or identically
circumstanced), the employer shall furnish the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax
Collector a detailed statement of facts.
      (4)   The occasional entry into the city of an employee who performs the
duties for which he or she is employed entirely outside the city, but enters
the city for the purpose of reporting, receiving instructions, accounting and
the like, incidental to his or her duties outside the city, shall not be deemed
to take such employees out of the class of those rendering their services
entirely outside of the city.
   (C)   An employer required to withhold the license fee (on compensation paid
to an employee) may in determining the amount on which the fee is to be
withheld:
      (1)   Ignore any amount allowed and paid by the employer to the employee
for expenses necessarily and actually incurred by the employee in the actual
performance of his or her services; or
      (2)   Deduct any amount necessarily incurred and expended by the employee
in the actual performance of his or her services, for which expense fee is not
to be or has not been reimbursed by the employer; provided, that in either
case, such expense must be recognized by the federal and state authorities for
income tax purposes and the employee shall furnish the employer, before the
deduction is made.
(2002 Code, § 110.22) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.28 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES WITHHELD.
   (A)   The return and payment required to be made on account of deductions by
the employers from salaries, wages and other compensation of employees shall be
monthly, on or before the fifteenth day of the month next following each
monthly payroll period.
   (B)   The employer shall, on or before the fifteenth day of the month next
following each monthly payroll period, make a return and pay to the Treasurer
the full amount of the license fee so deducted or withheld with respect to
compensation paid all of his or her employees subject to the license fee under
this chapter. No part of such tax so withheld and so reported may be paid to
the Treasurer in installments.
   (C)   The return required to be filed under this section shall be made on a
form furnished by or obtained from the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector.
   (D)   On or before January 31 (unless written request for extension is made
to and granted by the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector) following any
calendar year in which such deductions have been made by any employer, the
employer shall file with the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector in the form
prescribed by the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector, an information return,
giving the name, and address of the employee, the total amount of compensation
paid during the year, and the amount of city license fee withheld from the
employee.
   (E)   In deducting and withholding the license fee at source and in the
payment of any fee due under this chapter, a fractional part of a cent shall be
disregarded unless it amounts to $0.005 or more in which case it shall be
increased to $0.01.
   (F)   The City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector shall have the authority to
extend the filing of said returns in his or her discretion. Such extension
shall be upon the written request of the licensee; provided, however, that any
balance unpaid when payment is due under the terms of this chapter shall bear
interest at the rate of 8% per annum until paid.
(2002 Code, § 110.23) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
110.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 110.40 DUTIES OF CLERK/TREASURER/TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   The City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector is required to do the
following:
      (1)   Collect the license fee imposed under this chapter; and
      (2)   Under the supervision of the Mayor, promulgate and enforce rules
and regulations relating to the administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter, including provisions for the re- examination and
correction of returns and payments, but not limited thereto. The rules and
regulations as promulgated by him shall be binding upon the licensee and
employers. All such rules, regulations and decisions shall be subject to the
consent and approval of the City Council. The regulations, together with all
amendments and supplements thereto and all changes therein, will be on file
with the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector of the city and will be open to
public inspection. Copies thereof will, so far as possible, be available to all
license payers, employers and their representatives upon request.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector is required to do the
following:
      (1)   Receive the license fee imposed under this chapter; and
      (2)   Keep an accurate record showing the amount received by him or her
from each license payer and withholding employer and the date of the receipts.
   (C)   The City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector shall have the following
powers.
      (1)   The City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector is authorized and empowered
to request from any licensee a certified audit prepared by the licensee’s
accountants for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made, when
the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector questions the accuracy of any return
made and that the licensee shall file the audit with the City Clerk/Treasurer/
Tax Collector within 30 days.
      (2)   Upon failure of the licensee to file an audit with the City Clerk/
Treasurer/Tax Collector when requested, the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector
personally, or his or her agents or employees, is authorized and empowered to
examine the books, papers and records of any employer, or supposed employer, or
of any license payer, or supposed license payer, in order to verify the
accuracy of any return made; or, if no return was made to ascertain the license
fee imposed by this chapter. The City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector may enforce
this right by application to the appropriate court having jurisdiction over
these matters.
      (3)   Every employer or supposed employer, and every license payer or
supposed license payer, is required to furnish to the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax
Collector or his or her duly authorized agents and employees, the means,
facilities and opportunity for such examinations, investigations and audits as
are authorized in any way by this chapter.
      (4)   The City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector is further authorized to
examine under oath any person concerning any income which was, or should have
been returned for license fee and to this end the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax
Collector has the right and power to compel the production of books, papers and
records and the attendance of all persons before him or her whether as parties
or witnesses, whom he or she believes to have knowledge of such income.
      (5)   Refusal of any such examination of any employer or persons subject
to the license fee or presumed to be such employer or persons, constitutes a
violation punishable by fine.
      (6)   Agents and employees charged with duty of inspection or auditing of
records of employers and license payers will carry proper identification, which
shall be subject to examination by any person whose records are sought to be
examined.
(2002 Code, § 110.35) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.41 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   Employers and others subject to the license fee under this chapter are
required to keep such records as will enable the filing of true and accurate
returns, whether of fees withheld at source or of fees payable upon earnings or
gross receipts, or both, and such records are to be preserved for not less than
four years to enable the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector or any agent or
employee of the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector to verify the correctness of
the return filed.
(2002 Code, § 110.36) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.42 COLLECTION OF DEFICIENCIES; ALLOWANCE OF CREDIT FOR OVERPAYMENT.
   (A)   If as a result of investigation conducted by the City Clerk/Treasurer/
Tax Collector a return is found to be incorrect, the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax
Collector is authorized to assess and collect any underpayment of license fee
withheld at source or any underpayment of license fee owing by any license
payer, with respect to gross sales or gross income, or both. If no return has
been filed and a license fee is found to be owing, the fee actually owing may
be assessed and collected with or without the formality of obtaining a
delinquent return from the employer or taxpayer.
   (B)   Should it be disclosed either as a result of an investigation by the
City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector or through the medium of the filing of a
claim or petition for refund or credit, that an overpayment has been made, the
city will refund such overpayment.
   (C)   The employer will in every instance be required to pay the full
license fee which should have been withheld, even though he or she failed to
withhold from the employee. If too much has been withheld, the excess will be
refunded by the employer to the employee. While the withholding agent
(employer) will be expected to maintain complete records of such adjustments
with the employees, any such adjustment made during any month will not need to
be reflected in the withholding return or disclosed by schedules or statements
thereto attached. However, where adjustments are made between employer and
employee, disclosure shall be made in a statement supporting the return
required by this chapter.
(2002 Code, § 110.37) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 110.43 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Any information gained by the City Clerk/Treasurer/Tax Collector or any
other official or agent or employee of the city as a result of any returns,
investigations, hearings or verifications required or authorized by this
chapter shall be confidential, except in accordance with proper judicial order,
and any person or agent divulging such information shall upon conviction, be
subjected to fine or imprisonment as set forth in § 110.99. Such person may
disclose to the State Commissioner of Revenue or its duly authorized agent all
such information and the right to inspect any of the books and records of the
city, if the State Commissioner of Revenue grants to the city the reciprocal
right to obtain information from the files and records from the State
Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the information
so furnished to him or her.
(2002 Code, § 110.38) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.44 DELINQUENT LICENSE FEES; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter remaining unpaid after they become
due shall bear interest, in addition to the amount of unpaid fee, at the rate
of 8% per annum. The interest shall apply to all unpaid license fees whether or
not an extension of time for filing has been granted by the City Clerk/
Treasurer/Tax Collector and in addition to any penalties otherwise imposed.
(2002 Code, § 110.39) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994)
SPECIFIC PERMIT/LICENSE FEES
§ 110.55 RESTAURANT/LODGING LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The city will create, by ordinance, a City Tourism Commission for the
promotion of these activities within the city, known as the City Tourism
Commission. The Commission shall be composed of seven members who shall serve
without compensation and who shall be citizens, residents and voters of the
county who shall be appointed by the Mayor as follows:
      (1)   One Commissioner from a hotel or motel background or that possesses
a particular interest in promoting tourism within the city;
      (2)   Two Commissioners representing local restaurants;
      (3)   Two Commissioners from a financial background; and
      (4)   Two Commissioners representing local businesses.
   (B)   Vacancies in the Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor. The
Commissioners shall be appointed for terms of one, two and three years
initially providing staggered terms for the Commission. All proceeding terms
will be for three years. The Commission shall annually elect from its
membership a chairperson, a secretary, and a treasurer, and may employ such
personnel and make such contracts as are necessary to effectively carry out the
purpose of KRS 91A.350 and 91A.360. A quorum will consist of a majority of the
Commission, four of seven for conducting business. The Commission shall submit
a budget to City Council at least 30 days prior to the start of the
Commissioner’s fiscal year.
   (C)   The City Council does hereby ordain as follows.
      (1)   Pursuant to KRS 91A.400, there is hereby levied upon the retail
sales of all food, beverage and non-alcoholic beverages by restaurants and on
lodging in the city, a fee of 3% of the gross amount of all food and beverages
sales as well as 4% of the gross amount of lodging sales; which shall be passed
on to the customer or ultimate consumer.
      (2)   On or before the twentieth day of each calendar month, each
restaurant and lodging owner/operator shall report to the City Clerk/Treasurer
or Treasurer of the City Tourism Commission, on forms provided by the
Commission. They shall report the gross sales of that restaurant/lodging
facility from food and non-alcoholic beverages for the preceding calendar month
and on the gross revenue of motels, hotels and other overnight establishments,
and calculate the fee due for that month by computing 3% of its gross sales
from food and beverages, and 4% on lodging, and the operator shall remit with
the form the fee due to the City Tourism Commission. For each 1-30 day period,
the report and the fee, or either, is past due, there shall be added a penalty
2% of the fee due. There is a minimum of $50 regardless of the amount of fee
due, if any.
      (3)   (a)   A lien is hereby granted unto the city upon all property,
real and personal of any restaurant/lodging facility, to secure the unpaid fee
receipts due from that restaurant/lodging facility, which lien shall be
perfected by filing a notice of the amount due and statement of lien in the
office of the County Court Clerk, describing the property on which the lien is
asserted.
         (b)   Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, on being adjudged liable thereof, be fine not less
than $100, nor more than $250, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the collection of the past due amount. Each day a violation
continues shall be considered a separate civil offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the city from taking any other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
      (4)   (a)   The City Tourism Commission shall only expend the money
within the guidelines of KRS 91A.350 to 91A.390.
         (b)   The City Tourism Commission will account for all funding in an,
account entitled City Tourism Commission and shall give a quarterly report, to
the City Treasurer. Said reports shall also be submitted to the City Council,
and Tourism Commission members within 15 days following the close
of each fiscal year quarter. The remaining account will be expended upon
recommendations of the Tourism Commission.
      (5)   (a)   A restaurant as used in this chapter is any fixed or mobile
commercial establishment that engages in the preparation and serving of ready-
to-eat foods in portions to the consumer, including, but not limited to:
restaurants; coffee shops, cafeterias; short order cafes; luncheonettes;
grilles; tea rooms; sandwich shops; soda fountains; roadside and festival
stands; street vendors; catering kitchens; grocery delicatessen, convenience
store delicatessen; or similar places in which food is prepared for sale for
consumption on the premises or elsewhere. It does not include schools, food
vending machines and establishments serving beverages only in single service or
original containers.
         (b)   A lodging facility is defined as an establishment that
accommodates overnight visitors, on a daily, weekly, monthly basis, for a
charge, regardless of how the charge is characterized by the establishment and
includes hotels/motels, suites, bed and breakfasts and similar transient
lodging establishments.
         (c)   Temporary food stands, booths, street concessions and similar
type operations, unless operated by nonprofit corporations, when food is
prepared and sold for immediate consumption, are not exempt from this fee.
      (6)   No present or former employee of the City Tourism Commission or any
other person including city employees or City Council members shall divulge any
information acquired by him or her of the affairs of any person, or information
regarding fee schedules, returns or reports required to be filed with the
Tourism Commission, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation,
insofar as the information may have to do with the affairs of the person’s
business. This prohibition does not extend to information required in
prosecutions for making false reports or any other infraction of this chapter,
nor does it extend to any matter, which is in any way made a matter of public
record, nor does it preclude furnishing any taxpayer or his or her properly
authorized agent with information respecting his or her own report. Further,
this prohibition does not preclude the Tourism Commission or any employee of
the Commission from testifying in any court, or from introducing as evidence
returns or reports filed with the Tourism Commission, in an action for
violation of state or federal tax laws.
      (7)   (a)   Every restaurant/lodging facility as defined in this chapter
shall keep such records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers in such
form as the Tourist Commission may require, for not less than four years from
the making of such records unless the Tourism Commission in writing sooner
authorizes their destruction. The Tourism Commission or the City Clerk/
Treasurer may have access to all of the above records to the extent necessary
to determine proper compliance with this chapter.
         (b)   In the event of an overpayment or incorrect payment, a request
for refund will be accepted with proof of detailed overpayment and explanation.
The city reserves the right to request further proof of overpayment or
incorrect payment and if deemed appropriate the request that the business
making such a claim take credits on further returns in lieu of a reimbursement
by check. The period that the city will consider reimbursement on is limited to
two years prior to the posted date of request.
   (8)   The license fee provided for in this section is levied, commencing on
January 1, 2012. The first report and remittance of tax due from restaurant/
lodging operators shall be on the February 20, 2012.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-12-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Additional 1% room tax, see KRS 91A.390(a) and (c)
§ 110.56 CHARITABLE GAMING.
   (A)   The city does hereby use its powers as a city body to regulate
charitable gain and its related activities, and all of the definitions set
forth in KRS 238.505 are incorporated by reference in this chapter as if fully
set forth herein.
   (B)   Any person, corporation, establishment or charitable organization
which desires to operate charitable gaming or a charitable gaming facility
within the city limits, shall make application for a permit to operate such
activity by filing an application with the City Clerk/Treasurer. The
application shall set forth the true name of the owner of the place of
charitable gaming, the occupation of the owner, if applicable, or manager of
the proposed place of charitable gaming, for five years immediately preceding
the date on which the application was filed.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued to any person, corporation or charitable
organization which is not of good moral character, or which will not, in the
judgment of the Mayor and Common Council of the city, obey the laws of the of
the state in carrying on the business, or who, within two years prior to the
date of the filing of the application, has been convicted in the state of any
felony or of maintaining a public nuisance.
   (D)   When the application for charitable gaming permit is filed, the City
Clerk/Treasurer shall publish notice of said filing pursuant to the provisions
of KRS Chapter 424.
   (E)   The provisions of KRS 238.500 through KRS 238.995 are incorporated
herein by reference in fully as if fully set forth, including KRS 238.995
providing penalties for violation of any of the aforesaid provisions.
   (F)   Upon the filing of an application for charitable gaming within the
city limits, the applicant shall deposit $100 with the City Clerk/Treasurer
which shall be used by the Clerk/Treasurer to defray the cost of the notices
required hereby, and any other notices pursuant to law, to be published.
   (G)   Each place of charitable gaming, or charitable gaming facility, shall
constitute a separate establishment, pursuant to this section, and each person,
corporation or charitable organization shall be governed thereby.
   (H)   Each charitable gaming facility or establishment conducting charitable
gaming pursuant to this chapter, shall, for each and every person entering the
grounds, the establishment, or any enclosure, of a place of charitable gaming,
pay a municipal tax equal to $1 per person to the city. Each person,
corporation or charitable organization operating charitable gaming shall be
responsible for the collection
of the aforesaid $1 per person tax, and shall be responsible for reporting the
number of persons and the amount collected therefor, to the City Clerk/
Treasurer, on a calendar monthly basis, along with remitting the amount
collected or which a person, corporation or charitable organization is
responsible for collection, to the City Clerk/Treasurer. The aforesaid
municipal tax shall not apply to any employees of the place of charitable
gaming.
   (I)   Each person, corporation or charitable organization engaged in the
business of operating charitable gaming, shall furnish to the City Clerk/
Treasurer within 15 days after the end of each of month, the verified report of
the number of persons subject to the tax levied who entered the premises of the
location of charitable gaming during the preceding month. At the same time, the
person shall pay to the City Clerk/Treasurer the correct amount due by reason
of collection of the tax imposed herein. Any person who fails to pay the tax
due in the time specified in this section shall pay a penalty equal to 20% of
the amount of the tax due and delinquent, together with interest at the rate of
12% per annum on both the original tax and penalty.
   (J)   All sums collected hereunder and paid to the city, shall be paid into
the city’s General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
   (K)   The penalties for violation of this section, in addition to the
punitive amount set forth in division (J) above, shall be as set forth in KRS
238.995, which is adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if fully set
forth.
(Ord. 2004-C04A, passed 6-28-2004)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
110.03 or § 110.35(C)(5) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
not less than $25 nor more than $100, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days,
or both, for each offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
110.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $25
nor more than $100 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, for each
offense. Such criminal penalties shall be in addition to the penalties imposed
in §
110.04.
   (D)   Whoever violates § 110.38 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100 or imprisoned not to exceed 50
days, or both at the discretion of the court and shall be dismissed from
employment by the city upon conviction. Every such breach of confidence
constitutes a separate offense.
(2002 Code, § 110.99) (Ord. 1994-C-2, passed 6-6-1994)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
111.01   Definitions
111.02   License requirement
111.03   Application procedure
111.04   Standards for issuance
111.05   Revocation procedure
111.06   Standards for revocation
111.07   Appeal procedure
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of that business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   (a)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means
carrying goods for sale, making sales or making deliveries; or
         (b)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (2)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk/Treasurer. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their applications the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business; and
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as
the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
applications, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or possesses any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk/Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. This notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Council, within 14 days after notice of the decision
has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written statement setting
forth the grounds for appeal. The Council shall set the time and place for a
hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the person in the same
manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
“Licensed Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license,
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during the time that he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
112.01   Definition
112.02   Bond
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
112.07   Prohibited activities
112.08   Enforcement
 
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by PAWNBROKERS to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1,000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the provisions of this chapter
and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles effected or made by him or her. The register shall show the dates
of all loans or purchases, and the names of all persons who have left any
property on deposit as collateral security or as a delivery or sale. Opposite
the names and dates shall be written in plain hand a full description of all
property purchased or received on deposit as collateral security, the time when
the loan falls due, the amount of purchase money, the amount loaned, and the
interest charged. The register shall at all times be open to the inspection of
any police officer of the city when in the discharge of his or her official
duty.
(KRS 226.040)
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned, by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying the person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers and for other expenses,
losses and incidental costs associated with servicing these loans. Further,
this fee, when made and collected, shall not be deemed as interest for any
purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly charge, receive or
contract for any interest or consideration greater than that allowed by this
section.
(KRS 226.080) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for the payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time, nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter
unless otherwise provided by KRS 226.100.
   (B)   However, county police, for the purpose of locating stolen goods, may
carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $500, and his or her license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3))
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
113.01   Imposition of license fee
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
113.04   Due date; interest
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a fiscal-year basis, beginning July 1, and ending June 30.
(2002 Code, § 113.01) (Ord. C-1-91, passed 6-4-1991)
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 5% of the first year’s premiums actually collected within
each fiscal quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
(KRS 91A.080(2)) (2002 Code, § 113.02) (Ord. C-1-91, passed 6-4-1991)
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   License fee. The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which
issues any insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 8% of
the premiums actually collected within each fiscal quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax
imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Worker’s Compensation Act and shall
not include premiums received on policies of group health insurance provided
for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2), and shall not include premiums
received on other policies of health and/or accident insurance.
   (B)   Request for refund.
      (1)   Generally. No insurance company or broker shall be entitled to a
refund for any tax erroneously paid pursuant to the terms of this section,
unless the request for refund be made to the city in writing within 18 months
of the end of the calendar year on which said tax is paid. Additionally,
requests shall be accompanied by documentation supporting said request which
shall include at least the following:
         (a)   The name and physical address of each and every insured upon
whom tax was erroneously paid;
         (b)   The type of risk being insured against;
         (c)   The amount of the insurance tax allegedly erroneously paid with
accompanying proof that the tax was paid to the city by the insurer; and
         (d)   Such other information as may be reasonably requested by the
city.
      (2)   Refund in the form of credit against future taxes owed. The city,
in its sole discretion, may elect to allow or not to allow an insurer to take a
“refund” in the form of a credit against future taxes owed for any established
and confirmed overpayment.
(KRS 91A.080(3), (10)) (2002 Code, § 113.03) (Ord. C-1-91, passed 6-4-1991;
Ord. 2004C-02, passed - -; Ord. 2004C-02, passed 4-28-2004)
§ 113.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each fiscal quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(KRS 91A.080(8), (9)) (2002 Code, § 113.04) (Ord. C-1-91, passed 6-4-1991)
§ 113.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by September 30, furnish the city a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding fiscal year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils; and
   (E)   Life.
(KRS 91A.080(8)) (2002 Code, § 113.05) (Ord. C-1-91, passed 6-4-1991)
CHAPTER 114: YARD AND SIDEWALK SALES
Section
114.01   Purpose
114.02   Definitions
114.03   Sales regulated; permit requirements
 
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to define and establish uniform procedures
for the conduct of yard or sidewalk sales.
(2002 Code, § 114.01) (Ord. passed - - )
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SALES. Normally held in commercial areas by licensed merchants,
charity groups or individuals or groups operating a business.
   YARD SALES. Normally held in residential areas by one or more residents for
a limited time.
(2002 Code, § 114.02) (Ord. passed - - )
§ 114.03 SALES REGULATED; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct, operate or permit to
be operated in the city, any yard sale, sidewalk sale or garage sale, for any
purpose whatever unless a permit has first been obtained from the City Clerk/
Treasurer/Tax Collector. No more than two consecutive day yard sales may be
permitted during any one calendar year. There shall be a fee of $10 for a
permit to be applied for and issued for any and each yard, sidewalk or garage
sale. Any person to whom a permit has been issued under this section who abuses
any conditions set out in the permit, or violates any limitation set forth
therein, shall subject the permit to immediate revocation.
   (B)   It is expressly declared to be the purpose of this chapter to limit
yard sales, sidewalk sales, garage sales or any other type of rummage sale to
two sales per year per premises. Sales may be conducted Monday through
Saturday, 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Each day shall be considered a separate sale.
(2002 Code, § 114.03) (Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2002-C-1, passed 1-8-2002)
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, association, corporation or other entity who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject
to a fine not less than $10, nor more than $100, and in cases of repeated
violation, may be enjoined by a court of proper jurisdiction.
(2002 Code, § 114.99) (Ord. 2002-C-1, passed 1-8-2002)
CHAPTER 115: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
115.01   Short title
115.02   Definitions
115.03   Scope
115.04   Adoption of state alcoholic beverage laws
115.05   City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
115.06   Compliance with alcoholic beverage control laws mandatory
115.07   Non-exclusive application
115.08   Advertising restrictions
115.09   Advertising by handbills, circulars and cards prohibited
115.10   Prizes prohibited
115.11   Books and records
115.12   Prohibiting intoxicated persons on licensed premises
115.13   Opening of and drinking contents of containers on licensed premises
115.14   Beverages found outside locked compartment when sale prohibited
115.15   Hours of sale and delivery; Sunday sales
Licenses
115.30   Required
115.31   Application
115.32   Examination of applicants under oath
115.33   License fees
115.34   Regulatory fee
115.35   Authority of Administrator to reject or grant
115.36   Approval of premises selling by the drink by Health Department
required
115.37   License not to issue where principal trade with school children
115.38   Inspection of licensed premises; authority of Administrator
115.39   Conditions of license granted
115.40   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
115.41   Posting of license mandatory
115.42   Transfer
115.43   Revocation or suspension
115.44   Expiration date
 
115.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, and may be cited as the “Alcoholic Beverage
Control Ordinance of the city.”
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined in KRS Chapters 241, 243 and 244. As used herein, the terms HOTELS
shall include motels.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.03 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to the sale and traffic
in alcoholic beverages within the city limits, unless specifically provided to
the contrary.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.04 ADOPTION OF STATE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LAWS.
   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law of the state, including
KRS Chapters 241, 243 and 244 and the regulations of the State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board, as the same may from time to time be amended, are
hereby adopted as part of the alcoholic beverage control law of the city,
except as otherwise lawfully provided herein.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.05 CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Under authority of KRS 241.160, there is hereby created the office of
City Alcoholic Beverage Administrator for the city (herein after in this
chapter referred to as the Administrator), who shall have the duties and
functions prescribed by KRS Chapter 241. The Administrator may or may not be an
officer or employee of the city, and shall be appointed by the City Mayor. He
or she shall also have such further duties and functions as are prescribed in
this chapter.
   (B)   The Administrator, before entering upon his or her duties as such,
shall take the oath as prescribed by § 228 of the Constitution and shall
execute a bond with a good and solvent, corporate surety in the sum of not less
than be $1,000, faithfully to perform the duties of his or her office pursuant
to the provisions of KRS 62.060 et seq.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.06 COMPLIANCE WITH ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL LAWS MANDATORY.
   No person shall sell, deal in, barter or exchange or possess for sale, or
for the purpose of evading any law or ordinance, give away any alcoholic
beverage in any quantity whatever, or cause the same to be done, without
complying with all of the provisions of this chapter and all statutes and
regulations of the state applicable thereto.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.07 NON EXCLUSIVE APPLICATION.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall excuse or relieve any person from
the restrictions, requirements and penalties of any other ordinances of the
city, or of any statutes or regulations of the state relating to violations
pertaining to alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.08 ADVERTISING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No sign, banner, poster, ornamental structure, statue or other
type of display or location marker advertising which refers, either directly or
indirectly, to alcoholic beverages, shall be displayed on, nor shall it be
visible from, the exterior of any premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic
beverages, except that reference to such may be included in the name of the
business.
      (2)   This restriction shall not prevent any licensee from placing in the
window of the licensed premises alcoholic beverage advertisement not larger
than 18 inches height and 36 in width (576 square inches) in size.
   (B)   No flashing, oscillating, rotating, shimmering or other lights
demonstrating movement, or the illusion of movement, shall be used to
illuminate, or be visible from, the exterior of any premises licensed under
this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.09 ADVERTISING BY HANDBILLS, CIRCULARS AND CARDS PROHIBITED.
   No licensee under this chapter shall distribute or cause to be distributed
any handbills, circulars or cards as a medium for advertising alcoholic
beverages.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.10 PRIZES PROHIBITED.
   No licenses under this chapter shall give away or offer to give away
anything tangible of value as a premium or prize, or for any other purpose in
connection with the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.11 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain adequate
books and records of all transactions involved in the sale of alcoholic
beverages in the same manner required by the reasonable rules and regulations
of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
   (B)   Such books and records shall be available at all reasonable times for
inspection by the Administrator.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.12 PROHIBITING INTOXICATED PERSONS ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   No licensee under this chapter shall permit any person to become drunk or
intoxicated on the licensed premises, nor shall any licensee permit any drunk
or intoxicated person to remain on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.13 OPENING OF AND DRINKING CONTENTS OF CONTAINERS ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   No licensee to sell alcoholic beverages at retail under this chapter shall
permit any person, other than employees of the licensee, to open any container
of alcoholic beverages, and no container of alcoholic beverages shall be opened
nor its contents consumed on the licensed premises, unless the licensee holds a
retail drink license.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.14 BEVERAGES FOUND OUTSIDE LOCKED COMPARTMENT WHEN SALE PROHIBITED.
   If any alcoholic beverages are found on the outside of the locked or closed-
off compartment of any licensed premises at which a license is held to sell
alcoholic beverages at retail, at any hours during which the licensee is
prohibited by law from selling such alcoholic beverages, a prima facie
presumption shall arise that such alcoholic beverages were kept on the outside
of the locked or closed-off compartment for the purpose of sale in violation of
this chapter and of the state alcoholic beverage control laws, and such shall
be grounds for revocation or suspension of the license, and in addition to
other penalties provided for violations of this section, the Administrator
shall be and he or she is hereby authorized to confiscate such alcoholic
beverages.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.15 HOURS OF SALE AND DELIVERY; SUNDAY SALES.
   (A)   No premises for which there has been granted a license for the sale of
alcoholic beverages within the corporate limits of the city shall be permitted
to remain open for any purpose between 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., prevailing
time, of any weekday, except on New Year’s Eve, as provided in division (D)
below.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) below, no premises described in
division (A) above shall be permitted to remain open for any purpose at any
time during the hours from 12:00 a.m. Saturday until 6:00 a.m. Monday,
prevailing time.
   (C)   However, if a licensee provides for a separate compartment within his
licensed premises capable of being closed off within which is kept all stock of
alcoholic beverages and all fixtures and appurtenances connected with his or
her business as such licensee, and the compartment is kept locked during the
time mentioned above, the above provisions of this section shall not apply.
   (D)   All packaged sales of distilled spirits, wine and malt beverages, as
well as the sale of distilled spirits and wine by the drink, and malt beverages
by individual container, shall be permitted on Sundays from 12:00 p.m., until
11:00 p.m. (New Year’s Eve) and on Sundays that fall on December 21 from 1:00
p.m. until 2:00 a.m. the following Monday.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
115.99
LICENSES
§ 115.30 REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell, deal in, barter or exchange or possess for sale, or
for the purpose of evading any law or ordinance, give away any alcoholic
beverage in any quantity whatever, or cause the same to be done, without having
procured a license as provided for in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.31 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring a license to sell, deal in, traffic or possess for sale,
alcoholic beverages as provided for by this subchapter shall make a written
application to the Administrator, stating the street and number of the premises
where he or she expects to carry on the business sought to be licensed. No
license shall be issued to any person or to any premises, or to any part of a
building other than that approved by the Administrator in such license
application.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.32 EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS UNDER OATH.
   The Administrator shall have the power to examine or cause to be examined
under oath any applicant for a license under the provisions of this subchapter,
and to examine or cause to be examined the books and records of such applicant;
to hear testimony or to take proof upon the fitness of the applicant for a
license or the fitness of his or her proposed place of business.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.33 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   No license under the provisions of this subchapter shall be issued
until there has been paid to the city the license fee herein provided.
   (B)   The following kinds of alcoholic beverage licenses and no others may
be issued upon approval of the Administrator, and the fees payable therefore to
the city shall be as follows.
      (1)   Quota retail package license, per annum: $600.
      (2)   Special temporary liquor license per event: $100.
      (3)   Nonquota type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,
wine and malt beverages, per annum: $600.
      (4)   Nonquota type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,
wine and malt beverages), per annum: $600.
      (5)   Nonquota type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,
wine and malt beverages), per annum: $300.
      (6)   Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum: $300.
      (7)   Nonquota retail malt beverage package license, per annum: $200.
      (8)   Nonquota Type 4 retail malt beverage license, per event: $25.
      (9)   Caterer’s license, per annum: $800.
      (10)   Limited restaurant license(includes distilled spirits, wine and
malt beverages), per annum: $800.
   (C)   All license fees from licenses issued under this subchapter shall be
collected and paid into the general fund of the city for use for the general
operating expenses of the city.
   (D)   When any applicant applies for a license under the provisions of this
subchapter to commence business after May 1 of any year, such applicant shall
be charged, if the license is issued, an amount equal to as many twelfths of
the annual license year fee as there are calendar months remaining in the
license year, including the month within the license is granted; provided,
however, that no fractional fee shall be permitted where the applicant has
actually been doing business under a similar license during the last month of
the preceding license period.
   (E)   If any license issued hereto shall be revoked or cancelled for any
reason, the licensee shall not be entitled to a refund of any portion of the
license fee.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.34 REGULATORY FEE.
   (A)   A regulatory license fee is imposed upon the gross receipts of each
establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages. The regulatory license fee
is for the purpose of insuring full reimbursement to the city for the costs of
any additional policing, regulatory or administrative expenses related to the
sale of alcoholic beverages in the city. The City Council shall adopt, at the
budget adoption for the fiscal year, an annual rate for the regulatory license
fee as shall be reasonably estimated to insure full reimbursement to the city
for the cost of any additional policing, regulatory or administrative expenses
related to the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city. The regulatory license
fee shall be in addition to any other taxes, fees or licenses permitted by law.
   (B)   Payments of the regulatory license fee shall accompany tax returns
approved for use by the City Clerk/Treasurer, submitted to the City Clerk/
Treasurer on the fifteenth day of each month for the preceding month’s sales.
There shall be a monthly credit representing the pro rata portion of the
initial license cost for which provision is made in this chapter.
   (C)   The regulatory license fee shall be 6% for the licensing year
beginning December 1, 2011 and continuing thereafter until amended or repealed.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.35 AUTHORITY OF ADMINISTRATOR TO REJECT OR GRANT.
   The Administrator shall be the sole judge of the fitness of any applicant to
be granted any of the licenses provided for in this subchapter and of the
fitness of the location where any applicant my propose to engage in the
business authorized by any of the licenses provided for herein. He or she shall
have the power to authorize any of the licenses provided for herein to such
person applying therefor, or shall have the right to reject the application and
decline to authorize the issuance of the license. The Administrator will
authorize issuance of the license provided for in this subchapter only to
persons who meet the criteria for issuance of state licenses under KRS 243.100
and KRS 243.450.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.36 APPROVAL OF PREMISES SELLING BY THE DRINK BY HEALTH DEPARTMENT
REQUIRED.
   The Administrator shall not authorize a license for the retail sale of
alcoholic beverages by the drink, until the applicant and his or her place of
business have been approved by the County Health Department.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.37 LICENSE NOT TO ISSUE WHERE PRINCIPAL TRADE WITH SCHOOL CHILDREN.
   No license shall be issued to any applicant for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic beverage at any business premises where a majority of the business
conducted therein is with school children who are regularly attending private,
public or parochial schools.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.38 INSPECTION OF LICENSED PREMISES; AUTHORITY OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   All applicants for a license under the provisions of this subchapter shall,
at the time of making an application for a license, make and execute a permit
signed by the applicant and providing that the Administrator may inspect and
search the licensed premises at any time. Such permit for inspection and search
shall be attached to and filed with the application and shall be considered a
part thereof.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.39 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE GRANTED.
   All licenses granted under this subchapter shall be granted subject to the
following conditions, as well as at other conditions of other ordinances,
regulations, statutes or laws of the city or state applicable thereto.
   (A)   Every hotel and private club that procures a license under this
subchapter shall be entitled to serve alcoholic beverages as permitted by such
license in a separate room or rooms at banquets or dinners or where meals are
served; however, no hotel or private club shall maintain or operate, or permit
to be operated more than one bar or room where alcoholic beverages are
dispensed for sale and which is opened to the general public, without first
obtaining a separate license for each bar or room which is opened to the
general public.
   (B)   Each licensed premises shall at all times be conducted in an orderly
manner and no disorderly, riotous or indecent conduct shall be allowed at any
time on any licensed premises, and no nuisance suffered, permitted or
maintained thereon.
   (C)   No gambling or game of chance shall be permitted in any form upon such
licensed premises. Dice, slot machines or any devices of chance are prohibited
and shall not be kept on the premises.
   (D)   No radio receiving apparatus shall be kept or maintained on the
licensed premises which can be adjusted so as to receive police messages
broadcast from the police radio station as it now or may hereafter    operated.
In addition to the other penalties provided herein, for violation of this
section the chief of police or the Administrator shall have the authority to
confiscate any and all such radio receiving apparatus.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this subchapter to keep or
sell, or permit to be kept or sold or used on the licensed premises any
controlled substances.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.40 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
   SERVER for purposes of this section, shall mean any person employed or
working in any capacity, whether as an employee, volunteer help or as a working
proprietor, in any premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages where
alcoholic beverages are sold or dispensed by the drink or where malt beverages
are sold for consumption on the premises and whose job duties include the sale,
dispensing or service of alcoholic beverages or the management of the licensed
premises.
   (A)   All persons employed in the selling and serving of alcoholic beverages
shall participate in and complete a city-approved responsible beverage service
training program. For a responsible beverage service training program to be
approved by the city, it must effectively train its participants in the
identification of false age documents and recognition of characteristics of
intoxication. The city will not require enrollment in particular classes, but
only that the training be obtained from a recognized program meeting the goals
expressed in this chapter.
   (B)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above
shall complete that training within 90 days of the date on which the person
first becomes subject to the training requirements. All persons completing the
training required by this section shall be re-certified in responsible beverage
service training from a program approved by the city not less than once every
three years thereafter.
   (C)   The manager of the restaurant shall be responsible for compliance with
the training requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the CABC a
record or file on each employee that shall contain the pertinent training
information.
   (D)   Any person working at a special event for which a temporary alcoholic
beverage license has been approved shall not be required to comply with this
section.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.41 POSTING OF LICENSE MANDATORY.
   Every license issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be posted and shall
remain in a conspicuous place in the room where the business is carried on.
Should any license be lost or destroyed without fault of the licensee, a
duplicate in lieu thereof shall be issued at the direction of the Administrator
on being satisfied of the facts. A fee of $1 shall be charged for such
duplicate.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.42 TRANSFER.
   (A)   No license to sell alcoholic beverages shall be transferable either as
to the licensee or the licensed premises except as provided in the alcoholic
beverage control laws of the state, and not then until approval by the
Administrator and payment to the city of a transfer fee of $5.
   (B)   No assignment of any license issued under this subchapter shall be
made except by order of any court of competent jurisdiction and with the
approval of the Administrator.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.43 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Whenever any licensee shall violate any of the provisions of this
subchapter or any other ordinance relating to the subject of alcoholic beverage
control, or any of the rules and regulations of the Administrator, or any of
the provisions of the alcoholic beverages control law of the state, or any
amendments or supplements thereto, or any of the rules and regulations adopted
by the state alcoholic beverage control board, or any acts of Congress or rule
or regulation of any federal board, agency or commission relative to the
regulation and taxation of alcoholic beverages, or upon conviction by a court
of competent jurisdiction of any such violation, the Administrator is hereby
authorized and empowered to order the revocation or suspension of any licenses
issued under this subchapter. For purpose of this section, a violation by any
duly authorized agent or employee of a licensee shall constitute a violation by
the licensee.
   (B)   Any revocation of the authorization of the state of any licensee to
engage in the sale or traffic of alcoholic beverages shall automatically revoke
the licenses issued therefor by the city.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.44 EXPIRATION DATE.
   The licenses permitted under the provisions of this subchapter shall be
issued for a period of not more than one year, and every license issued
hereunder shall expire on April of each year.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, for the first offense, be fined not less than $100, and
not more than $200, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than six
months or both; and for the second and each subsequent violation shall be fined
not less than $200, or more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for
not more than 12 months or both. If a person who violates any provision of this
subchapter is a corporation, partnership, joint stock company, association or
fiduciary, then the president and/or the principle officer or partner
responsible for such violations may be punished by fine or imprisonment as
authorized by this section.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
civil offense, and the city may elect to pursue under either division (A) above
or this division (B). The offender, upon conviction, shall be subject to a
civil penalty of $250, plus court costs, and reasonable attorney fees, for each
violation and offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a civil action
in the nature of debt, and if not paid within 30 continuous calendar days after
citation for the violation, offense or other failure to comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 6-13-2017)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
   
130.   CURFEW FOR MINORS
   
131.   EXPLICIT MATERIAL
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW FOR MINORS
Section
130.01   Definitions
130.02   Unlawful acts
130.03   Exceptions
130.04   Parent or guardian
 
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLOW. Either permit or neglect to prevent. It requires actual or
constructive knowledge on the part of the parent or guardian, that is, the
parent or guardian must actually know about the child violating this section,
or the circumstances must be such that a reasonably prudent parent or guardian
should have known the child was violating this section.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18, or, as may be otherwise phrased, any
person of the age 17 or under.
   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
   (1)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
   (2)   As a legal guardian;
   (3)   As a person who stands “in loco parentis;” and
   (4)   Or as a person whom legal custody has been given by Order of Court.
   REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry or to stay unnecessarily upon or in any
public assembly, building, place, street or highway.
(Ord. 2017-8, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 130.02 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to be or
remain in or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway
within the city at night from the hours of 10:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. the
following day, during the following periods:
      (1)   12:00 midnight to 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
      (2)   12:00 midnight to 6:00 a.m. Sunday;
      (3)   10:00 p.m. Sunday to 6:00 a.m. Monday;
      (4)   10:00 p.m. Monday to 6:00 a.m. Tuesday;
      (5)   10:00 p.m. Wednesday to 6:00 a.m. Thursday; and
      (6)   10:00 p.m. Thursday to 6:00 a.m. Friday.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian having legal custody
of a minor to allow such minor to be or remain in or upon a public assembly,
building, place, street or highway within the city at night under circumstances
not constituting an exception as enumerated in §
130.03 during the time periods contained in §
130.03 during the time periods contained in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2017-8, passed 9-12-2017) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   In the following exceptional cases, a minor in or upon any public assembly,
building, place, street or highway within the city during the nocturnal hours
provided for in § 130.02 shall not be considered in violation of this section:
   (A)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (B)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent or guardian of
such minor;
   (C)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly, provided that written notice signed by the minor and
countersigned by a parent is in the possession of such minor specifying when,
where, and in what manner said minor will be exercising such First Amendment
rights;
   (D)   In case of reasonable necessity but only after such minor’s parent has
communicated to the Police Department the facts establishing such reasonable
necessity;
   (E)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk
or either next-door neighbor who has not communicated an objection to a police
officer or Police Department;
   (F)   When returning home, by a direct route from, and within one hour of
the termination of, a school activity, or any activity of a religious or other
voluntary association, provided that justification indicating the place and
time of termination of said event can be given to any investigating officer of
the Police Department;
   (G)   When authorized by regulation issued by the Mayor in cases of
reasonable necessity involving more minors than may reasonably be dealt with on
an individual basis. Such regulation should be issued sufficiently in advance
to permit publicity through news media and through other agencies such as the
schools. The regulation shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the
public assembly, building, place, street or highway permitted, and the period
of time involved not to extend more than one hour beyond the time for
termination of the activity, and the reason for finding that such regulation is
reasonably necessary. The Mayor shall notify the Police Department of said
information;
   (H)   When engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of the state
authorize a person under 18 years of age to perform;
   (I)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle with a
lawfully authorized driver over 21 years of age; and
   (J)   When the minor, who is duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within the city for the purpose of passing through,
by direct route, from one location to another either within or out of the city,
including all minors that may also be within the vehicle.
(Ord. 2017-8, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 130.04 PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   (A)   A police officer upon finding or being notified of any minor in or
upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway whose parent is
believed to be in violation of this section may stop and question such minor
and request such information as his or her name and age and the name and
address of his or her parent, guardian or person having legal custody.
   (B)   If the police officer determines or has reasonable cause to believe
that a curfew violation has occurred, the police officer may obtain from the
minor the information necessary to issue a citation to the minor’s parent,
guardian or person having legal custody and then either take the minor to his
or her home or direct the minor to proceed immediately to his or her home.
(Ord. 2017-8, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any parent, guardian or person having legal custody allowing a minor to
violate §
130.02(A) shall be subject to a fine of no more than $500 or imprisonment for a
period not to exceed six months or both.
(Ord. 2017-8, passed 9-12-2017)
CHAPTER 131: EXPLICIT MATERIAL
Section
131.01   Trafficking in sexually explicit material
 
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 TRAFFICKING IN SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful within the city, for any person to sell, exchange,
barter, give, deal in or otherwise traffic in any material, publication,
photographs, films or electronically produced products or devices which show,
depict or simulate any person in the act of sexual intercourse, or deviate
sexual intercourse as defined in KRS 510.010(1).
(Ord. 2004-C01, passed 3-9-2004) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or corporation who violates §
131.01 shall be subject to imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months,
or a fine of no more than $500, or both.
(Ord. 2004-C01, passed 3-9-2004)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
   
153.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code and Standards of Safety;
enforcement agents
150.02   Application
150.03   Appeals
150.04   Permits and fees
150.05   International Property Maintenance Code
150.06   Display of identifying numbers of buildings
 
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY;
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The State Building Code, as contained in Chapter 7, Title 815 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the State Plumbing Code, as contained in
Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky
Standards of Safety, as contained in Chapter 10, Title 815 of the Kentucky
Administrative Regulations, together with any amendments, are hereby adopted by
reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances. Copies of the above
codes and any amendments thereto shall be placed on file in the office of the
City Clerk/Treasurer where they shall be available for public inspection during
normal business hours.
   (B)   An official shall be designated by the City Council as the local
enforcement agent for the State Building Code.
   (C)   The Fire Chief of the city and his or her designated officers, agents
and employees of the city are hereby charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of the Standards of Safety.
(2002 Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 99-C-2, passed 1-12-1999) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code shall be extended to all single-
family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
(2002 Code, § 150.02)
§ 150.03 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this
chapter may be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction
unless and/or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS
Chapter 198B, is established to hear such appeals.
   (B)   All final decisions of the Fire Code Official of the city shall be
appealable to a local appeals board pursuant to the procedures adopted by the
City Council.
(2002 Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 99-C-2, passed 1-12-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.04 PERMITS AND FEES.
   Requirements for permits and required fees shall be as provided in the
schedule kept on file and available for public inspection in office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer. This schedule is hereby adopted by reference into this code of
ordinances as if set forth fully herein.
(2002 Code, § 150.04) (Ord. 99-C-2, passed 1-12-1999)
§ 150.05 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the
City Clerk/Treasurer, being marked and designated as the International Property
Maintenance Code, most current edition, as published by the International Code
Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the city
for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of the city are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this legislation, with
the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in
division (B) below.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      (1)   Section 101.1. Insert: City of Guthrie, Kentucky;
      (2)   Section 103.5. Omit;
      (3)   Section 112.4. Insert: $100; insert: $250;
      (5)   Section 302.4. Insert: 12 inches;
      (6)   Section 304.14. Insert: March 1; Insert: October 31;
      (7)   Section 602.3. Insert: October 1; Insert: March 31; and
      (8)   Section 602.4. Insert: October 1; Insert: March 31.
(Ord. 2015-6, passed 8-11-2015; Ord. 2015-8, passed 10-13-2015)
§ 150.06 DISPLAY OF IDENTIFYING NUMBERS OF BUILDINGS.
   All property owners, or residents, users or occupiers of houses or tenements
within the city shall have identifying numbers conforming to the street address
of the property placed in a position to be plainly legible and visible from the
street or road fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their
background. Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters.
Numbers shall be a minimum of four inches in height with a minimum stroke width
of 0.5 inches.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties.
      (1)   Violators of the State Building Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1,000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000, imprisonment
for not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 227.990(1))
      (3)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 318.990)
   (B)   Any person who violates §150.06 shall be subject to a fine not less
than $25 nor more than $500.
(2002 Code, § 150.99) (Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-14-2020)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
151.01   Statutory authorization
151.02   Findings of fact
151.03   Statement of purpose
151.04   Objectives
151.05   Definitions
151.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
151.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
151.08   Establishment of development permit
151.09   Compliance
151.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
151.11   Interpretation
151.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
151.13   Enforcement, violation notice and penalties
Administration
151.25   Designation of local administrator
151.26   Establishment of development permit
151.27   Duties and responsibilities of the local administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
151.35   General construction standards
151.36   Specific standards
151.37   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation
(unnumbered A zones) and/or floodways
151.38   Standards for shallow flooding zones
151.39   Standards for subdivision proposals
151.40   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter "A"
151.41   Critical facilities
Appeals and Variance Procedures
151.50   Appeals and variance procedures
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky has in KRS 82.082 delegated
to local government units the authority to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
Therefore, the City Council of the City of Guthrie, Kentucky, hereby adopts the
following floodplain management chapter, as follows.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of City of Guthrie are subject to periodic
inundation which result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential homebuyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principal source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snow melt, or a
combination of both. In A ZONES, floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but
waves are usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year
flood, base flood elevations and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   A1–30 AND AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   A99 ZONE. That part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure, the use of which is incidental
to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a
minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation, and should be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples include detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls is new construction.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
shown.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1–A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, AND AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   B AND X ZONES (SHADED). Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than one square mile, and areas
protected by levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the "100-year flood"). BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) for zones AE, AH, A1–30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1–A30, AR/AH, and AR/
AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a
1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all four sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank, or other man-made
facility or infrastructure. See STRUCTURE.
   C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by flood waters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. Critical facilities include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools; nursing homes;
hospitals; police, fire and emergency response installations; vehicle and
equipment storage facilities; emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood; public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood; and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls,
piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls. See
freeboard requirements for residential and non-residential structures.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. That portion of a structure below the base flood elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975 for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as “existing structures”.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the City of Guthrie
based on specific technical base flood elevation data which established the
area of special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE HUNDRED (500) YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-year flood have a
moderate to low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD, FLOODING, OR FLOOD WATER.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e. mudflows). See MUDSLIDES.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See FLOOD-
RELATED EROSION.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e. mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), and/or the flood boundary
floodway map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOOD PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities, is watertight to a specified design
elevation with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water
and all structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated
debris impact forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the “regulatory floodway”.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional
hydraulic and/or hydrologic analysis.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. Freeboard must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, and the like.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §
151.50, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the City Council
will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100
years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those
increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e. county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
      (1)   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE coverage provides for the payment of a
claim for the cost to comply with state or community floodplain management laws
or ordinances after a direct physical loss by flood. When a building covered by
a standard flood insurance policy under the NFIP sustains a loss and the state
or community declares the building to be substantially or repetitively damaged,
ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the cost to elevate, floodproof, demolish,
or remove the building.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and non-residential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   KRS 151.250; PLANS FOR DAMS, LEVEES, AND THE LIKE TO BE APPROVED AND PERMIT
ISSUED BY CABINET (ENVIRONMENTAL AND PUBLIC PROTECTION CABINET).
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill or other obstruction, except
those constructed by the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet, in the floodplain or
floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for such work have
been:
         (a)   Submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction or improvement; and
         (b)   Approved in writing by the cabinet and a permit issued;
         (c)   However, the cabinet by administrative regulation may exempt
those dams, embankments or other obstructions, which are not of such size or
type as to require approval by the cabinet in the interest of safety or
retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county, or other political subdivision of the
state shall commence the filing of, or place a building, barrier, or
obstruction of any sort in, any area in the floodplain or floodway unless plans
and specifications for such work have been submitted to and approved by the
cabinet and a permit issued as required in division (1) above.
      (3)   Nothing in this definition is intended to give the cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance or operation of any drainage district, ditch or system
established for agricultural purposes. However, the cabinet may require
approval prior to construction of structures, dams, embankments, levees,
bridges, fill, or other construction related to agricultural operations that
impact the base flood of a stream.
      (4)   The Department for Natural Resources through KRS Chapter 350 shall
have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Chapter 151 concerning the regulation of
dams, levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills, or other obstructions across
or along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which structures are
permitted under KRS Chapter 350 for surface coal mining operations.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMCs include the following
categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION - FILL (LOMR F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding,
   LEVEE SYSTEM.
      (1)   A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
      (2)   For a levee system to be recognized, the following criteria must be
met:
         (a)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised);
and
         (b)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or
state agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a
community participating in the NFIP.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support,
or basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion
of construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure’s foundation
system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure’s lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational
vehicle” (see RECREATIONAL VEHICLE).
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) or the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA, the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. Market value can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value) or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community’s FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e. MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow,
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (i.e. MUDFLOW) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is
in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e. MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.
mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e. MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRMs. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of City of Guthrie’s floodplain management
regulations and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of this chapter.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but is not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRMs and digitally referenced FIRMs
(DFIRMs). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE HUNDRED (100) YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% or greater chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter "A" is subject to the 100-year flood. Over the life of a 30-year
loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a flood with the SFHA. See
BASE FLOOD.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of probation, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 C.F.R. §§
60.3, 60.4, 60.5, and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
   (1)   Built on a single chassis;
   (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light duty
truck; and
   (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community’s participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of this chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or
reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a ten year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred; or, four or more flood
losses of $1000 or more over the life of the structure; or, three or more flood
losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than the
current value of the structure.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). That portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as zone A, AE, A1–A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development). The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground;
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other manmade
facilities or infrastructures. See BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels,
   SUBROGATION. An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.
      (1)   Any damage to a building for which the cost of repairs equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the damage occurring.
This term includes structures that are categorized as repetitive loss.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, REPAIR is considered to occur
when the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences.
      (3)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure".
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of reconstruction, alteration, or
improvement to a building, taking place during a one year period in which the
cumulative percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the current
market value of the building. For the purposes of this definition, an
improvement occurs when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building. The term does not apply to:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply with
existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure;” or
      (3)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. Unshaded X zones (C zones on older
FIRMS) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is
less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or a flood
insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by
the City Council of the City of Guthrie from available technical studies,
historical information, and other available and reliable sources, areas within
the jurisdiction of the City Council of the City of Guthrie which may be
subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of City of Guthrie.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agenty (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Todd County,
dated July 22, 2010, with the accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMS),
other supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by the City of
Guthrie, and for those land areas acquired by City of Guthrie through
annexation. This FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability
of this chapter and may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow
implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to the City Council by
the Floodplain Administrator and are enacted by City Council pursuant to
statutes governing land use management regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are
permanent records of City of Guthrie and are on file and available for review
by the public during regular business hours at City of Guthrie City Hall.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
151.26 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the City Council from taking such lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and,
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City Council of City of Guthrie,
any officer or employee, the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the Federal Insurance
Administration, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.13 ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATION NOTICE AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating: the facts of the offense or violation; the section of this chapter
and/or of the permit violated; when it occurred; how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit; and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See below.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating: the violation; prior notices of violation
issued; how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit; and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
   (D)   Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with granting of a variance or special
exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined no less than $100 or imprisoned for not more
than ten days, or both, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Floodplain
Administrator from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.25 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council of City of Guthrie hereby appoints the Mayor or designee to
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter by granting
or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions, and is herein
referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.26 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
151.07. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of the local
administrator is required before a state floodplain construction pennit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required.
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be flood-proofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure will
meet the flood-proofing criteria in §
151.36(B) and §
151.38(B); and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or flood proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1–30, AH/and A
zones where the community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   When flood proofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood
proofing elevation survey data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
immediately and prior to further progressive work being permitted to proceed.
Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said corrections required
hereby, shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained:
review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C 1334;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner; and
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, "adversely
affects" means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
151.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §
151.35 et seq. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Council for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
151.26(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
151.26(B);
         (b)   Certification required by §
151.36(B) (elevation or floodproofing of non-residential structures) as shown
on a completed and certified floodprooofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in accordance with §
151.26(B);
         (c)   Certification required by §
151.36(C) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
151.39 (subdivision standards);
         (e)   Certification required by §
151.36(E) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
         (h)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this
chapter as specified in §
151.13.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in § 151.50;
         (b)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
151.07 , then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonable
utilize any base flood elevation and flood way data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §
151.35 et seq.;
         (c)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
151.36(B), of a flood-proofing certificate; and
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the Office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes such building, structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Administrator may enter such
building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perfonn any duty imposed upon the Administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If such structure or premises are occupied, he/she shall first
present proper credentials and request entry. If such building, structure, or
premises are unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the
owner or other persons having charge or control of such request entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Administrator shall have recourse to
every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building,
structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Administrator for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
      (7)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his agent, or to the person
doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval issued under
the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by the
Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator’s staff charged with the enforcement of this chapter and acting
for the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties
shall not thereby render himself or herself personally liable, and is hereby
relieved from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons
or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
his or her duties. Any suit brought against any officer, employee, or member
because of such act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision
of this chapter shall be defended by the Department of Law until the final
termination of the proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.35 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or fame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces;
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (F)   Within zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures;
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter; and
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall be
undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or replaced.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.36 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
151.07, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated no lower
than at or above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter
walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the
unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with
standards of division (C) below.
      (1)   In an AO zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified;
      (2)   In an A zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated at or above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include but are not limited to detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, use
of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, and best
supportable and reasonable judgement in the event no data can be produced.
Title 401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060
states as a part of the technical requirements for a state floodplain permit
that the applicant shall provide cross sections for determining floodway
boundaries (and thereby base flood elevations) at any proposed construction
site where FEMA maps are not available. All cross sections shall be referenced
to mean sea level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no more than +
five-tenths of a foot. Cross sections elevations shall be taken at those points
which represent significant breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic
characteristics of the base floodplain change. Each cross section shall extend
across the entire base floodplain and shall be in the number and at the
locations specified by the cabinet. If necessary to ensure that significant
flood damage will not occur, the cabinet may require additional cross sections
or specific site elevations which extend beyond those needed for making routine
regulatory floodway boundary calculations; and
      (3)   In all other zones, elevated at or above the base flood elevation.
      (4)   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor including basement shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community building inspection
department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for non-residential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (A) above or together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be flood-proofed below an elevation at or above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment,
and ductwork, elevated no lower than at or above the level of the base flood
elevation;
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in § 151.26(A)(2);
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) below;
and
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below an
elevation at or above the base flood elevation, and shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin 1-
93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater,
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings (and the like) that include
fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the
base flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   (a)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed
on sites located within A, A1–30, AO, AH, and AE on the community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
            1.   On individual lots or parcels;
            2.   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            3.   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
            4.   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            5.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; or
            6.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result
of a flood.
         (b)   All manufactured homes must be:
            1.   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than at or above the
level of the base flood elevation; and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that: the
manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, so that either the:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than at or above the level of the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength of no less than
36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A,
A1–30, AO, AH, and AE on the community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) must
either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for “manufactured
homes”.
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
licensed and insured in accordance with the State of Kentucky motor vehicle
regulations, is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only
by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
151.07 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge; and
      (2)   If this division is satisfied, all new construction and substantial
improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.37 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION
(UNNUMBERED A ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.07, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures, shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood-proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
151.07.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.38 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.07 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet, where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall: have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or in zone AO the flood depth specified
on the flood insurance rate map above the highest adjacent grade. In zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in zone AO the flood depth specified on the
flood insurance rate map, above the highest adjacent grade. In zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely flood-proofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in
zone AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so
that any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required as stated in §
151.36(B).
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.39 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards;
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is
the lesser, shall be provided; and
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.40 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER "A".
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated "A"
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist flotation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one foot above grade,
total openings are to be one square inch per one square foot of floor area, at
least two openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood resistant materials below a level at or above the base
flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking;
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
§ 151.41 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the base flood
elevation at the site. Flood-proofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into flood
waters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 151.50 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nature of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in this chapter are quite rare.
The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can only be
met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance guidelines
provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple provisions that
must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The criteria are
designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives other than a
variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of variance and Appeal Board. The City Council of the City
of Guthrie shall establish an Appeal Board consisting of members of the City
Council.
   (C)   Duties of variance and Appeals Board.
      (1)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the local District Court, as provided in
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Appeals/variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the
Appeal Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the "minimum necessary" to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. MINIMUM NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the City Council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the “minimum necessary” to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. In the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be
made that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not
destroy the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height/additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in §
151.05 under "Public safety and nuisance"), cause fraud or victimization of the
public (as defined in §
151.05) or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (5)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (6)   The Floodplain'Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
      (7)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of divisions (D)(1) -
(11) are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected by
methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not result
in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the City of Guthrie Recorder and shall be
recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected
parcel of land; and
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of “historic structures” (see § 151.05) upon determination that
the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (H)   No impact certification within the floodway. Variances shall not be
issued within any mapped or designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. passed 6-15-2010)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
152.01   Adoption
§ 152.01 ADOPTION.
   The subdivision regulations of the city, dated November 7, 2013, as prepared
by Community and Development Services and recommended for adoption by the
Planning Commission, is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its
entirety. A copy of said subdivision regulations of the city, shall be
available for inspection at regular business hours at the City Hall.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 1-8-2019)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
153.001   Title
153.002   Definitions
153.003   Minimum requirements
153.004   Complaints regarding violations
Boundaries; Zoning Map
153.015   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
153.016   Official zoning map
General District Regulations
153.030   Obstruction to vision at street intersection on corner lots;
visibility
153.031   Fences and walls
153.032   Corner building site
153.033   Illumination of uses
153.034   Accessory buildings
153.035   Business or industry on small building site
153.036   Dwelling in Central Business District
153.037   Automobile wrecking and junkyards (salvage yards)
153.038   Classification of new and unlisted uses
Districts
153.050   R-1 Single-Family Residential District
153.051   R-2 Single-Family Residential District
153.052   R-3 One- and Two-Family Residential District
153.053   R-4 Multi-Family Residential District
153.054   R-5 High Density Multi-Family Residential District
153.055   ZLL Zero Lot Line District
153.056   RMH Residential Manufactured (Mobile) Housing District
153.057   PUD Planned Unit Development
153.058   B-1 Neighborhood Business District
153.059   B-2 General Business District
153.060   B-3 Central Business District
153.061   B-4 Arterial Commercial District
153.062   I-1 Light Industrial District
153.063   I-2 Heavy Industrial District
153.064   P-1 Professional and Office District
Nonconforming Uses
153.075   Intent
153.076   Incompatibility with permitted uses
153.077   Avoidance of undue hardship
153.078   Single nonconforming lots of record
153.079   Nonconforming lots of record in combination
153.080   Nonconforming uses of land
153.081   Nonconforming structures
153.082   Nonconforming uses of structures or of structures and land in
combination
153.083   Repairs and maintenance
153.084   Uses under conditional use provisions are not nonconforming uses
Conditional Uses
153.095   Approval of conditional use; procedure and requirements
153.096   Considering certain uses individually
153.097   Conditional use permit; contents of application
153.098   General standards applicable to conditional uses
153.099   Specific criteria
153.100   Supplementary conditions and safeguards
153.101   Notice of public hearing
153.102   Action by Board of Zoning Adjustment
153.103   Expiration of conditional use
Off-Street Parking, Storage and Loading Requirements
153.115   Parking spaces required; standards
153.116   Storage and parking of trailers and commercial vehicles
153.117   Off-street loading and unloading requirements
153.118   Construction and maintenance
Signs and Outdoor Advertising Displays
153.130   Permitted upon compliance
153.131   Definitions
153.132   Permit required
153.133   Locations
153.134   Limitations on number of signs
153.135   Sizes; commercial or industrial
153.136   Lighting
153.137   Maintenance
153.138   Height; commercial or industrial
153.139   Billboards; commercial or industrial
Home Occupations
153.150   Purpose
153.151   Certain home occupations not permitted
153.152   Minimum standards
153.153   Issuance of a conditional use permit
153.154   Conditional use permit not required under certain conditions
153.155   Home occupation affidavit
153.156   Enforcement
Buffering and Landscaping
153.170   Purpose
153.171   Sites affected
153.172   Landscape standards and specifications
153.173   Property perimeter requirements and vehicular use areas
153.174   Average width of easement
153.175   Trees
153.176   Planting, hedge, fence, wall or earth mound
153.177   Responsibility for providing easements
153.178   Easement conflicts
153.179   Existing landscape material
153.180   Landscaping at driveways and street intersections
153.181   Landscape materials
153.182   Maintenance and installation
153.183   Plan submission and approval
153.184   Plan review
153.185   Variance
153.186   Hardship exclusion
153.187   Acceptable plant list
153.188   Undesirable plant list
Amendments
153.200   Procedure for amendment or district changes
153.201   Intent
153.202   Initiation of zoning amendments
153.203   Contents of application
153.204   Transmittal to Planning Commission
153.205   Public hearing by Planning Commission
153.206   Notice of public hearing; in newspaper and to property owners
153.207   Placement of sign on property
153.208   Recommendation by Planning Commission
153.209   Action by City Council
Plan Review
153.220   New developments
153.221   Required exhibits
153.222   Preliminary review process
153.223   Actual review of site plan
153.224   Filing of approved site plan
153.225   Issuance of zoning/building permits
153.226   Project completion and compliance
Zoning/Building Permits
153.240   Zoning permits required
153.241   Contents of application
153.242   Approval
153.243   Integration of zoning/building permit
153.244   Record of zoning permits
153.245   Failure to obtain permit
153.246   Construction and use to be as provided in application, plans and
permits
Administration
153.260   Intent
153.261   Zoning Inspector; duties
153.262   Planning Commission; proceedings; duties
153.263   Board of Zoning Adjustment; duties
153.264   Conformance of appeals and variances; appellate jurisdiction
153.265   Appeals
153.266   Stay of proceedings
153.267   Variances; application and standards
153.268   Supplementary conditions and safeguards
153.269   Public hearing by the Board of Zoning Adjustment
153.270   Notices of public hearing; in newspapers and to adjoining property
owners
153.271   Action by Board of Zoning Adjustment
153.272   Adoption of appendices by reference
 
153.999   Penalty
Appendix A: Schedule of Uses
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Zoning Code” of the
city.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Whenever
any words and phrases used herein are not defined herein but are defined in the
state laws regulating the creation and function of a planning agency, any such
definition therein shall be deemed to apply to the words and phrases used
herein, except when the context otherwise requires.
   ABANDONMENT. The relinquishment of property, or a cessation of the use of
the property, by the owner with the intention neither of transferring rights to
the property to another owner nor of resuming the use of the property.
   ABUT. To physically touch or border upon, or to share a common property
line. (See ADJOINING LOT OR LAND and CONTIGUOUS.)
   ACCESS. A way or means of approach to provide physical entrance to a
property.
   ACCESSORY USE or ACCESSORY STRUCTURE/DEVICE. A use, structure or device on
the same lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to,
the principal use of a structure. Any type of satellite disk, antenna or device
shall be considered an ACCESSORY DEVICE.
   ACRE. A measure of land area containing 43,560 square feet.
   ADDITION. A structure added to the original structure at some time after the
completion of the original.
   AESTHETIC. The perception of artistic elements or elements in the natural or
human-made environment which are pleasing to the eye.
   AGRICULTURAL GRAIN TERMINAL. A storage area or structure where grain
products are temporarily stored for transferal to trucks, train cars or other
forms of transportation.
   AGRICULTURE.  The use of land for farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture,
apiculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, animal and poultry
husbandry and the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating or storing the
produce; provided, however, that:
      (1)   The operation of any such accessory use shall be secondary to that
of the normal agricultural activities;
      (2)   The above uses shall not include the feeding or sheltering of
animals or poultry in penned enclosures within 100 feet of any residential
zoning district; and
      (3)   The agriculture use does not include the operation or maintenance
of a commercial stockyard or feedlot where large numbers of livestock are fed
concentrated feeds, particularly for the purpose of fattening for market.
   AIRPORT. Any location, either on land or water, or structure which is
designed or used for the landing and take-off of aircraft, including all
necessary buildings and facilities of aircraft operation.
   AISLE. The traveled way by which cars enter and depart parking spaces.
   ALLEY.  A service way providing a secondary means of public access to
abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATION. Any change, addition or modification in construction, or any
change in the structural members of a building, such as bearing walls, columns,
beams or girders.
   AMENITY. A natural or human-made feature which enhances or makes more
attractive or satisfying a particular property.
   AMUSEMENT AND RECREATION SERVICES. Establishments engaged in providing
amusement or entertainment for a fee or admission charge, and includes such
activities as dance halls; studios; theatrical producers; bands, orchestras and
other musical entertainment; bowling alleys, and billiard and pool
establishments; commercial sports, such as arenas, rings, racetracks, public
golf courses and coin-operated devices; amusement parks; membership sports and
recreation clubs; amusement and bathing beaches; swimming pools; riding
academies; carnival operations; expositions; game parlors; and horse shows.
   AMUSEMENT ARCADE. A business establishment offering for public use, five or
more of any form of game machine, instrument or apparatus operated by coin,
slug or similar medium, but not including automatic machines for vending food,
soft drinks or similar products.
   AMUSEMENT PARK. A commercially operated park with various devices for
entertainment and booths for the sale of food and drink. Outdoor games and
activities may include motorized rides, water slides, miniature golf, batting
cages, paint ball and the like.
   AMUSEMENT PARK (INDOOR). An amusement park in which all related
entertainment activities occur within the confines of a building.
   ANNEXATION. The incorporation of land area into an existing community with a
resulting change in the boundaries of that community.
   APARTMENT HOTEL. A building in which lodging is offered for compensation, in
which part of the building may be separated into individual units providing
cooking facilities.
   APARTMENT UNIT. A part of a building consisting of a room or suite of rooms
intended, designed or used as a dwelling unit by any individual or single
family.
   APPROVED PLAN. A plan which has been granted final approval by the
appropriate approving authority.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES. A building or structure that contains three or
more apartments with private bath and facilities for an individual’s meal
preparation (which may include refrigerator, stove, microwave oven or other
appliances) and providing supportive service such as assistance with household
chores, cleaning, shopping, meals, laundry, transportation, 24-hour supervision
and organized social activities and not constituting a boarding and lodging
house or nursing home.
   AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE (ATM). An electronic device used by the public for
conducting financial transactions such as withdrawing or depositing cash from a
bank, savings, credit union, credit card or similar account wherein the
customer operates the device independently.
   AUTOMOTIVE, MOBILE HOME, TRAVEL TRAILER, FARM IMPLEMENT AND CONSTRUCTION
MACHINERY SALES.  The sale or rental of new or used motor vehicles, mobile
homes, travel trailers, farm implements and construction machinery, but not
including major repair work except warranty and incidental repair of same, to
be displayed and sold on the premises.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The highest elevation, expressed in feet above sea
level, of the level of flood waters occurring in the regulatory base flood
(100-year flood).
   BASE MAP. A map having sufficient points of reference, such as state, county
or municipal boundary lines, streets, easements and other selected physical
features, to allow the plotting of other data.
   BASEMENT. A space having one-half or more of its floor-to-ceiling height
above the average level of the adjoining ground, and with a floor-to-ceiling
height of not less than six and one-half feet.
   BLOCK. A unit of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets and
public land, railroad rights-of-way, waterways or any other barrier to the
continuity to development.
   BOARD. The Board of Zoning Adjustment.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building, not available to transients, in which meals are
regularly provided for compensation for at least three but not more than 30
persons.
   BOTANICAL GARDENS.  A public or private facility for the demonstration and
observation of the cultivation of flowers, fruits, vegetables or ornamental
plants.
   BUFFER STRIP. Land area used to visibly separate one use from another, or to
shield or block noise, lights or other nuisances.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind or nature.
   BUILDING AREA. The area of a lot remaining after the minimum yard and open
space requirements of this chapter have been met.
   BUILDING COVERAGE. The horizontal area measured within the outside of the
exterior walls of the ground floor of all principal and accessory buildings on
a lot.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the average
elevation of the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the
highest point of the roof for flat roofs, to the deck line of mansard roofs,
and to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip and gambrel
roofs.
   BUILDING LINE. The line established by law beyond which a building shall not
extend, except as specifically provided by law.
   BUILDING PERMIT. Written permission issued by the proper municipal authority
for the construction, repair, alteration or addition to a structure, in
accordance with State Building Codes.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the lot on which that building is situated.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line, established by this chapter, beyond which a
building shall not extend unless varied according to procedures in this
chapter. Also called a BUILDING LINE.
   BUS SHELTERS. A small, roofed structure, usually having three walls, located
near a street and designed primarily for the protection and convenience of bus
passengers.
   BUS STATIONS. A premises for the transient housing or parking of motor
driven buses and the loading and unloading of passengers.
   BUSINESS, CONVENIENCE. Commercial establishments which cater to and can be
located in proximity to or within residential districts without creating
excessive congestion, noise or other objectionable influences. CONVENIENCE USES
include, but need not be limited to, drugstores, beauty salons, barber shops,
carry outs, dry cleaning and laundry facilities and small grocery stores, if
the aggregate total floor area of such facilities does not exceed 10,000 square
feet. Uses in this classification tend to serve the day-to-day needs of the
neighborhood.
   BUSINESS, GENERAL. Commercial uses which generally require locations on or
near major arterials and/or their intersections, and which tend, in addition to
serving day-to-day needs of the neighborhood, to also supply the more durable
and permanent needs of the whole community. GENERAL BUSINESS uses include, but
need not be limited to, such activities as major supermarkets, stores that sell
hardware, apparel, footwear, appliances and furniture, and various department
and discount stores. Also included here may be drive-in banks.
   BUSINESS, HIGHWAY. Commercial uses which generally require locations on or
near major arterials and/or their intersections, and which tend to serve the
motoring public. HIGHWAY BUSINESS USES include, but need not be limited to,
such activities as filling stations, automotive sales and service, restaurants
and motels and commercial recreation.
   BUSINESS, OFFICE TYPE. Quasi-commercial uses which may often be transitional
between retail business and/or manufacturing and residential uses. OFFICE
BUSINESS generally accommodates such occupations as administrative, executive,
professional, accounting, clerical and drafting. Institutional offices of a
charitable, philanthropic, religious or educational nature are included here.
   BUSINESS, SERVICES. Any profit-making activity which renders services
primarily to other commercial or industrial enterprises or which services and
repairs appliances and machines used in businesses and homes.
   BUSINESS, WHOLESALE. Business establishments that generally sell commodities
and materials in large quantities or by the piece to retailers, jobbers, other
wholesale establishments or manufacturing establishments. These commodities are
basically for further resale, for use in the fabrication of a product, or for
use by a business service.
   CARPORT. A roofed structure providing space for the parking or storage of
motor vehicles and enclosed on not more than three sides.
   CELLAR. A portion of the building partly underground, but having one-half or
more of its clear height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
   CEMETERY. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human or
animal dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories,
mausoleums and mortuaries if operated in connection with and within the
boundaries of the cemetery for which perpetual care and maintenance is
provided.
   CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (CBD). The major shopping area within a city,
usually containing, in addition to retail uses, governmental offices, service
uses, professional, cultural, recreational and entertainment establishments and
uses, residences, hotels and motels, appropriate industrial activities and
transportation facilities.
   CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY. The certificate issued by the Building
Official which permits the use of a building in accordance with the approved
plans and specifications, and which certifies compliance with the provisions of
this chapter for the use and occupancy of the building with any special
stipulations or conditions of the building permit.
   CERTIFICATION. A written statement by the appropriate offices that required
constructions, inspections, tests or notices have been performed and comply
with applicable requirements.
   CHANGE OF USE. Any use which substantially differs from the previous use of
a building or land.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
   CHARACTERISTICS OF USE. The use which is characteristic of the principal use
of any area of land or a building or structure.
   CHECK CASHING FACILITY. A business that for compensation engages, in whole
or in part, in the business of cashing checks, warrants, drafts, money orders
or other commercial paper serving the same purpose. CHECK CASHING FACILITY does
not include a state or federally chartered bank, savings association, credit
union or industrial loan company. CHECK CASHING FACILITY also does not include
a retail seller engaged primarily in the business of selling consumer goods,
including consumables.
   CHILD CARE CENTER.
      (1)   FAMILY DAY CARE CENTER. A private establishment enrolling one to
seven children.
      (2)   GROUP DAY CARE CENTER. A private establishment enrolling more than
seven and less than 12 children.
   CIRCULATION. Systems, structures and physical improvements for the movement
of people, goods, water, air, sewage or power by such means as streets,
highways, railways, waterways, towers, airways, pipes and conduits, and the
handling of people and goods by such means as terminals, stations, warehouses
and other storage buildings or trans-shipment points.
   CLINIC. A facility for treatment of human ailments, operated by a group of
physicians, dentists, chiropractors or other licensed practitioners for the
treatment and examination of outpatients.
   CLUB. A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated by a
person for a social, literary, political, educational or recreational purpose
primarily for the exclusive use of members and their guests, but not including
any organization, group or association, the principal activity of which is to
render a service usually and ordinarily carried on as a business.
   CLUSTER. A development design technique that concentrates buildings in
specific areas on the site to allow the remaining land to be used for
recreation, common open space and preservation of environmentally-sensitive
features.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The person designated by the local government
entity as being responsible for administering this chapter and compliance with
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   COHABITATION.  Households which contain two unrelated adults of opposite
sexes.
   COLLECTION OFFICE. The business location of any person or entity engaged in
the business of collecting or receiving payment for others on any account, bill
or other indebtedness.
   COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY. Any profit-making activity which is
generally related to the entertainment field, such as a motion picture theater,
carnival, cocktail lounge, nightclub and similar entertainment activities.
   COMMON ELEMENTS. Land amenities, parts of buildings, central services and
utilities, and any other elements and facilities owned and used by all members
of the development and designated in the master deed as common elements.
   COMMUNITY CENTER. Buildings and facilities for a social, educational or
recreational purpose generally open to the public, but not primarily for profit
or to render a service customarily carried on as a business.
   COMPOSTING FACILITY. A commercial or public solid waste processing facility
where yard or garden waste is transformed into soil or fertilizer by biological
decomposition.
   COMPREHENSIVE (DEVELOPMENT) PLAN. A plan, or any portion thereof, adopted by
the Planning Commission and the legislative authority of the city, showing the
general location and extent of present and proposed physical facilities,
including housing, industrial and commercial uses, parks, schools and
transportation and other community facilities. The plan may also include
development policy or guidelines for future growth and development.
   CONCESSION STAND.  A retail sales operation from a location not involving a
permanent building for the purpose of housing or conducting sales using a
temporary table, stand, cart or similar equipment. CONCESSION STAND SALES may
include the sale of confections, snacks or other light meals; provided that, no
inside seating, nor drive-in service is provided.
   CONDEMNATION. The exercise by a governmental agency of the right to eminent
domain.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A special use permitted within a zoning district other than
a principally permitted use, requiring a conditional use permit and approval of
the Board of Zoning Adjustment. CONDITIONAL USES permitted in each district are
listed in the Official Schedule of District Regulations or special exceptions.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Zoning Inspector upon
approval by the Board of Zoning Adjustment, to allow a use other than a
principally permitted use to be established within the district.
   CONDOMINIUM. A type of ownership or management in which the building or
group of buildings, where the units are owned individually and the structure,
common areas and facilities are owned by all the owners on a proportional,
undivided basis.
   CONSOLIDATION. The removal of lot lines between contiguous parcels.
   CONTIGUOUS. Next to, abutting or touching, and having a boundary, or portion
thereof, which is coterminous.
   CONVERSION. A change in the use of land or a structure.
   COPY SHOP. A retail establishment that provides duplicating services using
photocopying, blueprint and offset printing equipment and may include the
collating and binding of booklets and reports.
   COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS. An analytic method whereby the actual and hidden
costs of a proposed project are measured against the benefits to be received
from the project.
   COURT. Any open space, unobstructed from ground to sky, other than a yard,
that is on the same lot with and bounded on two or more sides by the walls of a
building.
   CRISIS COUNSELING CENTER.  A facility or portion thereof and premises that
are used for purposes of temporary emergency shelter, crisis intervention,
including counseling and educational services, referral, hotline response and/
or similar human social service functions. The facility may include meal
preparation, distribution or service for residents of the center as well as
nonresidents; merchandise distribution; or shelter, including temporary
boarding or lodging. CRISIS COUNSELING CENTERS do not include detoxification
facilities, assisted living facilities, substance abuse treatment facilities,
institutions, homeless shelters, domestic violence shelters or centers in which
medical treatment is provided by licensed practitioners.
   CUL-DE-SAC. The turnaround and the end of a dead-end street.
   CULTURAL FACILITIES. Establishments such as museums, art galleries,
botanical and zoological gardens, of an historic, educational or cultural
interest which are not operated commercially.
   DEDICATION. Gift or donation of property by the owner to another party.
   DEED. A legal document conveying ownership of real property.
   DEMOLITION (PERMIT). A permit issued by a municipality before a building or
structure or major part thereof is razed.
   DENSITY. A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of
land, including public rights-of-way.
      (1)   GROSS DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of the total
land to be developed, including public right-of-way.
      (2)   NET DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the
acreage involved
includes only the land devoted to residential uses, excluding public right-of-
way.
   DETENTION (BASIN). A storage facility for the temporary storage of
stormwater runoff.
   DETERIORATION. The marked diminishing of the physical condition of
structures or buildings.
   DETOXIFICATION FACILITY (SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT FACILITY). A facility
used for the purposes of temporary or long term inpatient treatment of victims
of alcohol or drug use or addiction.
   DEVELOPER. The legal or beneficial owner or owners of a lot or of any land
included in a proposed development, including the holder of an option or
contract to purchase, or other persons having enforceable proprietary
interests, in the land.
   DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. Zoning, subdivision, site plan, official map,
floodplain regulation or other governmental regulation of the use and
development of land.
   DILAPIDATION.  A deterioration of structures or buildings to the point of
being unsafe or unfit for human habitation or use.
   DISTRICT. A part of the city wherein restrictions of this chapter are
uniform, as depicted on the official zoning map adopted in conjunction with
this chapter.
   DOMESTIC VIOLENCE SHELTER or EMERGENCY AND PROTECTIVE SHELTER. Housing for
adult women or men and their dependent children, if any, who are victims of
domestic violence perpetrated by the spouse, domestic partner or significant
other of the adult victim. DOMESTIC VIOLENCE SHELTERS may provide counseling
and day care for shelter residents.
   DOWN ZONE. To increase the intensity of use by increasing density or floor
area ratio, or otherwise decreasing bulk requirements.
   DRAINAGE.
      (1)   Surface water runoff; and
      (2)   The removal of surface water or groundwater from land by drains,
grading or other means, which include runoff controls to minimize erosion and
sedimentation during and after construction or development, the means for
preserving the water supply and the prevention or alleviation of flooding.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Pipes, swales, natural features and human-made improvements
designed to carry drainage.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT.  A building or portion thereof where food and/or
beverages are sold in a form ready for consumption, and where all or a
significant portion of the consumption takes place or is designed to take place
outside the confines of the building, often in a motor vehicle on the site.
   DUMP. A land site used primarily for the disposal by dumping, burial,
burning or other means, and for whatever purposes, of garbage, sewage, trash,
refuse, junk, discarded machinery, vehicles or parts thereof, and other waste,
scrap or discarded material of any kind.
   DWELLING.  A structure or portion thereof which is used exclusively for
human habitation.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED. A one-family dwelling attached to two or more one-family
dwellings by common vertical walls.
   DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling which is not attached to any other dwelling
by any means.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A dwelling consisting of three or more dwelling
units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling consisting of a single dwelling unit
only, separated from other dwelling units by open space.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling consisting of two dwelling units which may
be either attached side by side or one above the other, and each unit having a
separate or combined entrance or entrances. Includes units sold or rented in
the condominium form of ownership or management.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms designed and equipped exclusively
for use as living quarters for only one family and its household employees,
including provisions for living, sleeping, cooking and eating. The term shall
include mobile homes, but shall not include house trailers or recreational
vehicles.
   EASEMENT. An authorization or grant of land by a property owner to specific
person(s) or the general public to use that land for a specific/expressed
purpose(s).
   EASEMENT (DRAINAGE). An easement required for the installation of stormwater
sewers or drainage ditches and/or required for the preservation or maintenance
of a natural stream or watercourse or other drainage facility.
   EGRESS. An exit; to depart from a building or lot.
   EMINENT DOMAIN. The authority of a government to take, or to authorize the
taking of, private property for public use.
   ENLARGEMENT.  To increase the size of an existing structure.
   EROSION.  The detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments, or the
wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice and gravity.
   EXCAVATION.  Removal or recovery by any means whatsoever of soil, rock,
minerals, mineral substances or organic substances other than vegetation, from
water or land, on or beneath the surface
thereof, or beneath the land surface, whether exposed or submerged.
   EXISTING GRADE OR ELEVATION. The vertical location of the ground surface
prior to excavating or filling.
   EXISTING USE. The use of a lot or structure at the time of the enactment of
a zoning ordinance.
   EXTENSION. An increase in the amount of existing floor area within an
existing building.
   EXTERIOR WALL. Any wall which defines the exterior boundaries of a building
or structure.
   FARM. An area used for agricultural operations, including truck gardening,
forestry, the operation of a tree or plant nursery, or the production of
livestock and poultry.
   FARM STRUCTURE. Any building or structure used for agricultural purposes,
but not for commercial retail sale.
   FARM VACATION ENTERPRISES (PROFIT OR NON-PROFIT). Farms adapted for use as
vacation farms, picnicking and sports areas, fishing waters, camping, scenery
and nature recreational areas, hunting areas, hunting preserves and watershed
projects.
   FAST-FOOD RESTAURANT. An establishment whose principal business is the sale
of pre-prepared or rapidly prepared food directly to the customer in a ready-
to-consume state for consumption either within the restaurant building or off
premises.
   FENCE. A structure, including entrance and exit gates, designed and
constructed for enclosure or screening.
   FILL. Sand, gravel, earth or other materials of any composition whatsoever
placed or deposited by humans.
   FINAL APPROVAL. The last official action of the Planning Board or Board of
Zoning Adjustment taken on a development plan which has been given preliminary
approval, after all conditions and requirements have been met, and the required
improvements have been installed or guarantees properly posted for their
installation, or approval conditioned upon the posting of the guarantees.
   FLEA MARKET. A market held in an open area or structure where goods are
offered for sale to the general public by individual sellers from open or semi-
open facilities or temporary structures.
   FLOATING ZONE. An unmapped zoning district where all the zone requirements
are contained in the ordinance and the zone is fixed on the map only when an
application for development meeting the zone requirements is approved.
   FLOOD or FLOOD WATER. An overflow or inundation of normally dry lands from a
stream or other body of water; the high stream flow overtopping the banks of a
stream; or a high flow as measured by each stage or discharge.
   FLOOD CONTROL. The prevention of floods, the control, regulation, diversion
or confinement of floodwater or flood flow, and the protection therefrom,
according to sound and accepted engineering practice, to minimize the extent of
floods, and the death, damage and destruction caused thereby; and all things
incidental thereto or connected therewith.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. A floodplain, or portion thereof, which has not been
adequately protected from floodwater by means of dikes, levees, reservoirs.
   FLOODPLAIN. The relatively flat area of low land adjoining the channel of a
river or stream, which has been or may be covered by flood water. The
FLOODPLAIN includes the channel, floodway and floodway fringe.
   FLOODPLAIN, 100-YEAR. A flood having a peak discharge which can be expected
to be equaled or exceeded on the average of once in a 100-year period. The 100-
YEAR FREQUENCY FLOOD is equivalent to a flood having a probability of
occurrence of 1% in any given year (a flood magnitude which has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year).
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplain adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to carry and
discharge the floodwater or flood flow of any river or stream.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. Those portions of the flood hazard areas lying outside the
floodway.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum, in square feet, of the floor areas of all roofed
portions of a building, as measured from the interior faces of the exterior
walls. It includes the total of all space on all floors of a building. It does
not include porches, garages or space in a basement or cellar when the basement
or cellar space is used for storage or other such incidental uses. The GROSS
FLOOR AREA is generally applied in residential use.
   FLOOR AREA, NET. The floor area of the specified use, excluding stairs,
washrooms, elevator shafts, maintenance shafts and rooms, storage spaces,
display windows, fitting rooms and the like, in a nonresidential building. The
NET AREA is used in calculating parking requirements.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO.  The floor area of the building divided by the area of the
lots on which the building is located.
   FLOOR AREA, USABLE. Same as GROSS FLOOR AREA.
   FOOD PROCESSING. The preparation, storage or processing of food products.
Examples of these activities include bakeries, dairies, canneries and the like.
   FRONTAGE.  That side of a lot abutting on a street; the front lot line.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building, or an accessory portion of the
principal building, used for storing or parking of automobiles, recreational
vehicles and/or boats of the occupants of the premises, and wherein not more
than one space is rented for parking to a person not a resident on the
premises.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A principal or accessory building other than a private or
storage garage, used for parking or temporary storage of passenger automobiles,
and in which no service shall be provided for remuneration.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. Any building or premises used for housing only motor-driven
vehicles, other than trucks and commercial vehicles.
   GRADE. The average level of the finished surface of ground adjacent to the
exterior walls of the building.
   GRADE, FINISHED. The final elevation of the ground surface after
development.
   GRADE, NATURAL.  The elevation of the ground surface in its natural state
before human-made alterations.
   GREEN AREA. Land shown on a development plan, master plan or official map
for preservation, recreation, landscaping or park.
   GREENHOUSE, INDUSTRIAL. Wholesale business whose principal activity is the
growing and selling of plants within an enclosed building.
   GROUP FAMILY HOUSEHOLD. A group of individuals not related by blood,
marriage, adoption or guardianship living together in a dwelling unit as a
single housekeeping unit under a common housekeeping management plan based on
an intentionally structured relationship providing organization and stability.
   HEALTH SPA. A place or building where active exercise and related activities
are performed utilizing weight control or muscle building equipment or
apparatus for the purpose of physical fitness. Also, a place or building that
provides massage, exercise and related activities with or without such
equipment or apparatus.
   HEIGHT. The vertical distance of a structure measured from the average
elevation of the finished grade within 20 feet of the structure to the highest
point of the structure.
   HELIPORT. An area used or intended to be used for the landing or takeoff of
helicopters, and may include any or all other areas of buildings appropriate to
accomplish these functions.
   HELIPORT (ACCESSORY USE). An area used or intended to be used for the
landing or takeoff of helicopters, and may include any or all other areas of
buildings appropriate to accomplish these functions provided the heliport use
is customary and incidental to the operation of a principle use permitted
within the district, excluding residential and neighborhood business districts.
   HIGHEST AND BEST USE.  An appraisal concept that determines the use of a
particular property
likely to produce the greatest net return in the foreseeable future.
   HISTORIC AREA. A district or zone designated by a local authority, state or
federal government, within which the buildings, structures, appurtenances and
places are of basic and vital importance because of their association with
history, or because of their unique architectural style and scale, including
color, proportion, form and architectural detail; or because of their being a
part of or related to a square, park or area, the design or general arrangement
of which should be preserved and/or developed according to a fixed plan based
on cultural, historical or architectural motives or purposes.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation conducted in a dwelling unit; provided that:
      (1)   No more than one person other than members of the family residing
on the premises shall be engaged in the occupation;
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the HOME OCCUPATION shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 25% of floor area of the dwelling units shall be
used in the conduct of the HOME OCCUPATION;
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of the HOME OCCUPATION
other than one sign, not exceeding four square feet in area, non-illuminated,
and mounted flat against the wall of the principal building;
      (4)   No traffic shall be generated by the HOME OCCUPATION in greater
volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood. Any need
for parking generated by the conduct of the HOME OCCUPATION shall meet the off-
street parking requirements as specified in this chapter, and shall not be
located in a required front yard; and
      (5)   No equipment or process shall be used in the HOME OCCUPATION which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odor or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot if the occupation is conducted in a
single-family residence, or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other
than a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no
equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
in any radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations
in line voltage off the premises.
   HOMELESS SHELTERS. An activity providing personal assistance on a nonprofit
basis to individuals of an indigent status. Such assistance must include food
and/or shelter and may, in addition, include religious instruction, counseling
and other incidental services customarily provided by missions.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building in which lodging, or boarding and lodging, are
provided and offered to the public for compensation. As such, in that it is
open to the public it is not a rooming house, boarding house, lodging house or
dormitory, which are herein separately defined.
   HOUSEHOLD.  A family living together in a single dwelling unit, with common
access to and common use of, all living and eating areas and all areas and
facilities for the preparation and storage of food within the dwelling unit.
   HOUSING UNIT. A room or group of rooms used by one or more individuals
living separately from others in the structure, with direct access to the
outside or to a public hall and containing separate toilet and kitchen
facilities.
   IMPROVED LOT. A lot containing an improvement.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any human-made, immovable item which becomes part of, is placed
upon or is affixed to real estate.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. A large tract of land that has been planned, developed and
operated as an integrated facility for a number of individual industrial uses,
with special attention to circulation, parking, utility needs, aesthetics and
compatibility.
   INDUSTRY.  Those fields of economic activity including forestry, fishing,
hunting and trapping, mining, construction, manufacturing; transportation,
communication, electric, gas and sanitary services; and wholesale trade.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. Facilities and services needed to sustain industry,
residential and commercial activities.
   INGRESS. Access or entry.
   INSTITUTION. Building(s) and/or land designed to aid individuals in need of
mental, therapeutic, rehabilitative counseling or other correctional services.
   INVERSE CONDEMNATION. The taking of private property as a result of
governmental activity without any formal exercise of eminent domain.
   JOINT OWNERSHIP. The equal estate interest of two or more persons.
   JUNK BUILDINGS, JUNK SHOPS, JUNKYARDS. Any land, property, structure,
building or combination of the same, on which junk is stored or processed. JUNK
shall include wrecked automobiles, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags,
rubber tires, bottles and the like.
   KENNEL. Any premises where three or more animals over four months of age are
housed, groomed, bred, boarded, trained or sold, and which may offer provisions
for minor medical treatment.
   LAND SURVEYOR. One who is licensed by the state as a land surveyor, and is
qualified to make accurate field measurements and mark, describe and define
land boundaries.
   LAND USE.  A description of how land is occupied or utilized.
   LANDSCAPE.
      (1)   An expanse of natural scenery; and
      (2)   The addition of lawns, trees, plants and other natural and
decorative features to land.
   LIGHT INDUSTRY. Industrial uses which meet the performance standards, bulk
controls and other requirements established in this chapter.
   LIMOUSINE AND TAXI SERVICE - LIMOUSINE SERVICE - TAXICAB BUSINESS. A service
that offers transportation in passenger automobiles and vans to persons
including those who are handicapped in return for remuneration. The business
may include facilities for servicing, repairing and fueling the taxicabs,
limousines or vans.
   LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Space logically and conveniently located for bulk
pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used, and
accessible to those vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are
filled. REQUIRED OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE is not to be included as off-street
parking space in computation of required off-street parking space. All OFF-
STREET LOADING SPACES shall be located totally outside of any street or alley
right-of-way.
   LOCAL AUTHORITY. Any city or other legally-authorized agency charged with
administration and enforcement of land use regulations.
   LOT. 
      (1)   A LOT is a parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other
open spaces as are herein required. A LOT shall have frontage on an improved
public street, or on an approved private street, and may consist of:
         (a)   A single lot of record;
         (b)   A portion of lot of record; and/or
         (c)   A combination of complete lots of record, or of complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record.
      (2)   The word LOT includes the words PLOT, PARCEL and TRACT.
   LOT AREA. The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street,
highway, alley, road or other rights-of-way.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot or parcel of land abutting upon two or more streets at
their intersection, or upon two parts of the same street, forming an interior
angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. The ratio of enclosed ground floor area of all buildings on a
lot to the horizontally projected area of the lot, expressed as a percentage.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner
lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to
streets shall be considered frontage, and yards shall be provided as indicated
under the definitions of yard-related terms in this section.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. Lot line(s) bounding a lot as follows.
      (1)   CORNER OR THROUGH LOT. The line separating the lot from either
street.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. The line separating the lot from the street.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is, or
is most nearly, parallel to the front lot line. In the case of a triangular or
irregular-shaped lot, an imaginary line between the side lot lines parallel to
the front lot line, ten feet long, lying farthest from the front lot line. On a
corner lot, the REAR LOT LINE shall be opposite the front lot line of least
dimension.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or rear
lot line.
   LOT, MEASUREMENT OF. A lot shall be measured as follows.
      (1)   DEPTH. The distance between the midpoints of straight lines
connecting the foremost points of the side lot lines in front and the rearmost
points of the side lot lines in the rear.
      (2)   WIDTH. The distance between straight lines connecting front and
rear lot lines at each side of the lot, measured at the building setback line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the County Clerk, or a lot or a parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT TYPES. Terminology used in this chapter with reference to different
types of lots is as follows:
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a
CORNER LOT if tangent projections of the front lot lines drawn perpendicular at
the side lot lines meet at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees in front
of the lot.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot with only one frontage on a street.
      (3)   REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT. A lot on which frontage is at right angles
to the general pattern in the area. A REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT may also be a
CORNER LOT.
      (4)   THROUGH LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more
than one street. THROUGH LOTS abutting two streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lines of a lot measured
at right angles to its depth along a straight line parallel to the front lot
line at the minimum required building setback line.
   MAINTENANCE AND STORAGE FACILITIES. Land, buildings and structures devoted
primarily to the maintenance and storage of construction equipment and
material.
   MANUFACTURING, EXTRACTIVE. Any mining, quarrying, excavating, processing,
storing, separating, cleaning or marketing of any mineral natural resource.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY.  Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing,
testing and similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and
extensive in character; require large sites, open storage and service areas,
extensive services and facilities, ready access to regional transportation; and
normally generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration, dust, glare,
air pollution and water pollution, but not beyond the district boundary.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are
usually controlled operations; relatively clean, quiet, and tree of
objectionable or hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor or dust;
operating and storing within enclosed structures; and generating little
industrial traffic and no nuisances.
   MICROBREWERY. A facility used for the production and packaging of malt
beverages of low alcoholic content for distribution, retail or wholesale, on or
off premises, with a capacity of not more than 15,000 barrels per year. The
development may include and constitute an accessory use to other uses such as a
standard restaurant, bar or live entertainment as otherwise permitted in the
zoning district.
   NET AREA OF LOT. The area of the lot excluding those features or areas which
the development ordinance excludes from the calculations.
   NEWSSTAND. A temporary structure, manned by a vendor that sells newspapers,
magazines and other periodicals.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot, the area, dimensions or location of which was
lawful prior to the adoption, revision or amendment of this chapter, but which
fails by reason of the adoption, revision or amendment to conform to the
present requirements of the zoning district.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN.  Any sign lawfully existing on the effective date of an
ordinance, or an amendment thereto, which renders the sign nonconforming
because it does not conform to all the standards and regulations of the adopted
or amended ordinance.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A building, structure or use of land existing at the time
of enactment of this chapter, and which does not conform to the regulations of
the district in which it is situated.
   NUISANCE. An interference with the enjoyment and use of property.
   NURSERY, NURSING HOME. A home or facility for the care and treatment of
babies, children, pensioners or elderly people.
   NURSERY, PLANT MATERIALS.  Land, buildings, structures or combination
thereof for the storage, cultivation, transplanting of live trees, shrubs or
plants offered for retail sale on the premises, including products used for
gardening and landscaping.
   OCCUPANCY PERMIT. A required permit allowing occupancy of a building or
structure after it has been determined that the building meets all the
requirements of applicable codes and ordinances.
   OCCUPANT. The individual or individuals in actual possession of a premises.
   OFFICE BUILDING. A building used primarily for conducting the affairs of a
business, profession, service, industry or government, or like activity, that
may include ancillary services for office workers, such as a restaurant, coffee
shop, newspaper or candy stand.
   OFF-SITE. Located outside the lot lines of the lot in question, but within
the property (of which the lot is a part) that is the subject of a development
application, or within a contiguous portion of a street or other right-of-way.
   OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE. A temporary storage area for a motor vehicle that
is directly accessible to an access aisle and which is not located on a
dedicated street right-of-way.
   ON-SITE. Located on the lot that is the subject of an application for
development.
   OPEN SPACE. A public or private outdoor area expressly set aside for the use
and benefit of many unrelated people. The area may include, along with the
natural environmental features, water areas, swimming pools, tennis courts and
other recreational facilities that the Planning Commission deems permissive.
Streets, parking areas, structures for habitation and the like shall not be
included in OPEN SPACE area calculations.
   ORDINANCE.  Any legislative action, however denominated, of a local
government which has the force of law, including any amendment or repeal of any
ordinance.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. For the purpose of this chapter, an OFF-STREET
PARKING SPACE shall consist of an area adequate for parking an automobile with
room for opening doors on both sides, together with properly related access to
a public street or alley and maneuvering room; but shall be located totally off
public right-of-way. Includes, but is not limited to, parking spaces, off-
street garages, carports and parking pads.
   PARKING STALL. The area required for parking one automobile, with its
attendant maneuvering room. The area required for a parked car is to be ten
feet wide and 22 feet long.
   PARTY WALL. A wall starting from the foundation and extending continuously
through all stories to or above the roof, which separates one building from
another and is in joint use by each building.
   PEDESTRIAN. An individual who travels on foot.
   PERFORMANCE BOND or SURETY BOND.  An agreement by a subdivider or developer
of the
city for the amount of the estimated construction cost, guaranteeing the
completion of physical improvements according to plans and specifications
within the time prescribed by the subdivider’s agreement.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS. A set of criteria or limits relating to nuisance
elements which a particular use or process may not exceed.
   PERMIT. Written governmental permission issued by an authorized official,
empowering the holder thereof to do some act not forbidden by law, but not
allowed without such authorization.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, association, organization, partnership, trust,
company, corporation or any other legal entity.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Any enterprise conducted for gain which primarily offers
services to the general public such as shoe repair, watch repair, barber shops,
beauty parlors and similar activities.
   PHILANTHROPIC ORGANIZATION. An organization not for profit which engages in
charitable actions or efforts to promote the well-being of humankind in
general.
   PICNIC AREA. A lot or use containing two or more picnic tables designed for
use by ten or more persons and which may include barbecue stands and a roofed
shelter.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An area of land in which a variety of residential,
commercial and industrial uses are planned and developed as a whole according
to comprehensive and detailed plans with more flexible standards, such as lot
sizes and setbacks, than those restrictions that would normally apply under
these regulations.
   PLAT. 
      (1)   A map representing a tract of land, showing the boundaries and
location of individual properties and streets.
      (2)   A map of a subdivision or site plan.
   PORTABLE STORAGE.  A temporary structure, trailer or pod to be used, or
intended to be used, for the private non-commercial, non-industrial storage by
an occupant prior to the location to or relocation from a residence. PORTABLE
STORAGE UNITS may not be located within a front yard for more than 72 hours. A
PORTABLE STORAGE UNIT located within a rear or side yard may not be located on
a lot for more than 90 days and shall not be located closer than five feet from
any property line.
   PREMISES. One or more lots which are in the same ownership and are
contiguous or separated only by a road or water body, including all buildings,
structures and improvements.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The building in which the principal use of the lot is
conducted.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary use to which the premises are devoted and the
main purpose for which the premises exist.
   PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES. The use of offices and related spaces for such
professional services as are provided by medical practitioners, lawyers,
architects, engineers and similar professions.
   PROHIBITED USE. The use marked as prohibited for a certain district in the
schedule of uses, Appendix A, attached to the ordinance from which this chapter
is derived, adopted by reference in § 153.272; and which is not to be allowed
to locate in that district except as specified under nonconformities.
   PUBLIC AREAS. Public parks, playgrounds, trails, paths and other
recreational areas and other public open spaces; scenic and historic sites;
schools and other public buildings and structures.
   PUBLIC DOMAIN.  All lands owned by government.
   PUBLIC HEARING. A meeting announced and advertised in advance and open to
the public, with the public given an opportunity to talk and participate.
   PUBLIC NOTICE. The advertisement of a public hearing in a paper of general
circulation in the area and through other media sources, indicating the time,
place and nature of the public hearing.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.  A general term denoting land, property or interest
therein, usually in a strip, acquired for or devoted to a transportation
facility.
   PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY. The erection, construction, alteration, operation
or maintenance of buildings, power plants or substations, water treatment
plants or pumping stations, sewage disposal or pumping plants, and other
similar public service structures, by a public utility, by a railroad, whether
publicly or privately owned, or by a municipal or other governmental agency;
including the furnishing of electrical, gas, rail transport, communications,
water and sewerage services.
   PUBLIC USES. Public parks, schools, administrative and cultural buildings
and structures, not including public land or buildings devoted solely to the
storage and maintenance of equipment and materials and public service
facilities.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm or corporation duly authorized to furnish
electricity, gas, steam, telephone, telegraph, water or sewerage systems to the
public under public regulation.
   QUASI-PUBLIC USE. Churches, Sunday schools, parochial schools, colleges,
hospitals and other facilities of an educational, religious, charitable,
philanthropic or non-profit nature.
   RECREATION CAMPGROUND. An area of land on which two or more recreational
vehicles, including campers, tents or other similar temporary recreational
structures are regularly accommodated with or without charge, including any
building, structure or fixture of equipment that is used or intended to be used
in connection with providing the accommodations.
   RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT, MAJOR. Equipment which must be hauled on a trailer
with two or more wheels or which has two or more wheels attached, or which is
self-propelled with wheels; including boats, trailers and recreational
vehicles.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. Public or private facilities that may be classified
as either extensive or intensive depending upon the scope of services offered
and the extent of use.
      (1)   Extensive facilities generally require and utilize considerable
areas of land, and include, but need not be limited to, hunting, fishing and
riding clubs and parks.
      (2)   Intensive facilities generally require less land (used more
intensively), and include, but need not be limited to, miniature golf courses,
amusement parks, stadiums and bowling alleys.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle primarily designed as temporary living
quarters for recreation, camping or travel, either with its own motor power, or
mounted on or towed by another powered vehicle.
   RECYCLING COLLECTION CENTER. A facility for the drop-off and temporary
holding of materials such as paper, cardboard, glass, metal, plastic, batteries
and motor oil. Processing of materials is limited to glass breaking and
separation. Recycling materials are not sold to a recycling drop-off center. A
recycling drop-off center is intended for household or consumer use. Use by
commercial or industrial establishments is not included. Unattended drop-off
stations for single materials, such as newsprint, are also not included.
   RECYCLING PLANT. A facility that is not a salvage yard and in which
recoverable resources, such as newspapers, magazines, books and other paper
products, glass, metal cans and other products are recycled, reprocessed and
treated to return such products to a condition in which they may again be used
for production.
   REHABILITATION. The upgrading of a building previously in a dilapidated or
substandard condition, for human habitation or use
   RELIGIOUS USE. A structure or place in which worship, ceremonies, rituals
and education pertaining to a particular system of beliefs are held.
   RELOCATE. To move an individual, household, use or building from its
original place to another location.
   REPLACEMENT COST. The sum of money which would be required to re-erect a
structure identical to the one in question.
   RESEARCH ACTIVITIES. Research, development and testing related to such
fields as chemical, pharmaceutical, medical, electrical, transportation and
engineering. All research, testing and development shall be carried on within
entirely enclosed buildings, and no noise, smoke, glare, vibration or odor
shall be detected outside of the buildings.
   RESIDENCE. A home, abode or place where an individual is actually living at
a specific point in time.
   RESIDENTIAL DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of residential
land.
   RESTORATION. The relocation or reconstruction of a building’s original
architectural features.
   RESTRICTION. A limitation on property which may be created in a property
deed, lease, mortgage, through certain zoning or subdivision regulations or as
a condition of approval of an application for development.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. A restriction on the use of land usually set forth in
the deed.
   RETAIL SERVICES. Establishments providing services or entertainment, as
opposed to products, to the general public; including eating and drinking
places, hotels and motels, finance, real estate and insurance, personal
services, motion pictures, amusement and recreation services, health,
educational and social services, museums and galleries.
   RETAIL TRADE. Establishments engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the
general public for personal or household consumption, and rendering services
incidental to the sale of the goods.
   RETAINING WALL. A structure constructed to hold back or support an earthen
bank.
   RETENTION BASIN. A pond, pool or basin used for the permanent storage of
water runoff.
   REZONE. To change the zoning classification of particular lots or parcels of
land.
   RIGHT OF ACCESS. The legal authority to enter or leave a property.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.
      (1)   A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, forced
dedication, prescription or condemnation, and intended to be occupied, or
occupied, by a road, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission lines, oil or
gas pipeline, water line, sanitary storm sewer and other similar uses.
      (2)   Generally, the right of one to pass over the property of another.
   ROADSIDE STAND. A temporary structure designed or used for the display or
sale of agricultural and related products, or novelties and other items of
interest, to the motoring public.
   ROOMING HOUSE (BOARDING HOUSE, DORMITORY, LODGING HOUSE). A dwelling or part
thereof, other than a hotel, motel or restaurant, where meals and/or lodging
are provided for compensation for three or more unrelated persons, where no
cooking or dining facilities are provided in the individual rooms.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Any liquid waste containing animal or vegetable matter in
suspension or solution, or the water-carried waste resulting from the discharge
of water closets, laundry tubs, washing machines, sinks, dishwashers or any
other source of water-carried waste of human origin or containing putrescrible
material.
   SANITARY SEWERS. Pipes that carry only domestic or commercial sewage and
into which storm surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SCREENING.  A structure erected or vegetation planted for concealing an area
from view.
   SEAT. For purposes of determining the number of off-street parking spaces
for certain uses, the number of seats is the number of seating units installed
or indicated, or each 24 lineal inches of benches, pews or space for loose
chairs.
   SEPTIC SYSTEM. An underground system with a septic tank used for the
decomposition of domestic wastes.
   SERVICE STATION, AUTOMOBILE. Any land, building, structure or premises used
for the sale at retail of motor vehicle fuels, oils or accessories, or for
servicing or lubricating motor vehicles, or for installing or repairing parts
and accessories; but not including, the repairing or replacing of motors,
bodies or fenders of motor vehicles or painting motor vehicles, public garages
and the open storage of rental vehicles or trailers.
   SETBACK LINE. A line established by this chapter, generally parallel with
and measured from the lot line (property line), defining the limits of a yard
in which no building, other than accessory building, or structure may be
located aboveground, except as may be provided in this chapter.
   SEWERS, CENTRAL OR GROUP. An approved sewage disposal system which provides
a collection network and disposal system and central sewage treatment facility
for a single development, community or region.
   SEWERS, ON-SITE. A septic tank or similar installation on an individual lot
which utilizes an aerobic bacteriological process or equally satisfactory
process for the elimination of sewage and provides for the proper and safe
disposal of the effluent, subject to the approval of health and sanitation
officials having jurisdiction.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the road right-of-way outside the roadway, which is
improved for the use of pedestrian traffic.
   SIGN. An identification, description, illustration or device which is
affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure or
land, and which directs attention to a product, place, activity, service,
person, institution or business.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. Any sign illuminated by electricity, gas or other
artificial light, including reflecting or phosphorescent light.
   SIGN LIGHTING DEVICE. Any light or group of lights located or arranged so as
to cast illumination on a sign.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. Any sign unrelated to a business or profession
conducted, or to a commodity or service sold or offered upon, the premises
where the sign is located.
   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. Any sign related to a business or profession conducted,
or a commodity or service sold or offered upon, the premises where the sign is
located.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign which projects from the exterior of a building.
   SITE PLAN.  The development plan for one or more lots on which is shown the
existing and proposed conditions of the lot, including topography, vegetation,
drainage, floodplains, marshes and waterways; open spaces, walkways, means of
ingress and egress, utility services, landscaping, structures and signs,
lighting and screening devices, and any other information that reasonably may
be required in order that an informed decision can be made by the approving
authority.
   SKATE PARKS. A public facility that is designed for use by persons riding
skateboards, in-line skates or roller skates.
   SPOUSE ABUSE CENTER. An organization operated by trained professional
counselors for the purpose of providing temporary assistance to those family
members who have been physically or emotionally harmed or threatened with
physical harm.
   STORY. The part of a building between the surface of a floor and the ceiling
immediately above; or, if there is a floor above, the portion of a building
between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above. The
basement shall be counted as a STORY. A cellar shall not be counted as a STORY.
   STREET. A general term denoting a public way for purposes of vehicular
travel, including the entire area within the right-of-way. The term STREET also
includes the terms HIGHWAY, PARKWAY, ROAD, THOROUGHFARE, AVENUE, BOULEVARD,
LAND, COURT, PLACE and other such terms. The recommended usage is: HIGHWAY or
STREET in urban areas; HIGHWAY or ROAD in rural areas.
      (1)   ALLEY. A street intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or to buildings in urban areas and not intended for the purpose of through
vehicular traffic.
      (2)   ARTERIAL. A system of streets and roads which form an integrated
network of continuous routes primarily for through traffic. The arterial system
is stratified into major and minor categories.
         (a)   MAJOR. A street intended to collect and distribute traffic from
service areas such as community-commercial areas, primary and secondary
educational plants, hospitals, major recreational
areas, churches and offices.
         (b)   MINOR. A street intended to move traffic from local roads to
major arterials.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street open at one end only and with a special
provision for vehicles turning around.
      (4)   DEADEND. A local street open at one end only and without a special
provision for vehicles turning around.
      (5)   FRONTAGE. A local street or road auxiliary to and located on the
side of an arterial for service to abutting property and adjacent areas and for
control of access.
      (6)   HIGHWAY. A term applied to streets and roads that are under the
jurisdiction of the state’s Department of Transportation.
      (7)   LOCAL. A system of streets and roads which primarily provides land
access service and access to higher order systems.
      (8)   LOOP. A local street with both terminal points on the same street
of origin.
      (9)   PARTIAL. A dedicated right-of-way providing only a portion of the
required street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of
land.
      (10)   PERIMETER. Any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side.
      (11)   PRIVATE. A local street that is not accepted for public use or
maintenance, which provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
      (12)   PUBLIC. A street under the control of and kept by the public,
established by regular governmental proceedings for the purpose, or dedicated
by the owner of the land and accepted by the proper authorities, and for the
maintenance of which they are responsible.
   STREET VENDING AND CARTING. A portable stand and any related accessory
appurtenance such as an awning, canopy or seating, used for the retail sales of
goods, including, but not limited to, beverages, food and flowers.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Includes, but is not limited to, buildings, walls, fences, signs, radio towers,
TV antennas and satellite TV disks.
   SUPPLY YARD. A commercial establishment storing and offering for sale
building supplies, steel, coal, heavy equipment, feed and grain and similar
goods.
   SWIMMING POOL. A pool, pond, lake or open tank containing at least 18 inches
of water at any
point and maintained by the owner or manager.
   SWIMMING POOL, COMMUNITY. A swimming pool for the benefit of the general
public, operated with a charge for admission; a principal use.
   SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE. A swimming pool used exclusively without paying an
additional charge for admission, by the residents and guests of a single
household, a multi-family development, a community, the members and guests of a
club, or the patrons of a motel or hotel; an accessory use.
   TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING, TATTOO PARLOR/BODY-PIERCING STUDIO.  An
establishment whose principal business activity, either in terms of operation
or as held out to the public, is the practice of one or more of the following:
      (1)   The act of producing scars on a human being or the act of inserting
pigment under the surface of the skin of a human being, by pricking with a
needle or otherwise, to produce indelible marks or figures visible through the
skin, including the application of permanent makeup; and/or
      (2)   The act of penetrating the skin or body part of a human being to
make a hole, mark or scar.
   TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION WORKER HOUSING. Housing, generally provided in
portable or mobile units, for workers engaged in the construction of permitted
onsite building(s) and/or other improvement(s). TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION WORKER
HOUSING is limited to no more than 365 days and must be discontinued upon
completion of the onsite building(s) and/or improvement(s).
   TEMPORARY USE. A use established for a fixed period of time, with the intent
to discontinue the use upon the expiration of the time period.
   TRANSITION ZONE. A zoning district permitting transitional uses.
   TRANSITIONAL AREA.
      (1)   An area in the process of changing from one use to another or
changing from one racial or ethnic occupancy to another.
      (2)   An area which acts as a buffer between two land uses of different
intensity.
   TRANSPORTATION PLAN. The portion of the comprehensive plan adopted by the
city’s Planning Commission indicating the general location recommended for
arterial, collector and local streets and roads within the appropriate
jurisdiction.
   UPZONE. To reduce the intensity of use by decreasing density or lowering the
floor area ratio or otherwise increasing bulk requirements.
   USE. The specific purposes for which land or a building is designated
arranged, intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
   USED or OCCUPIED. Includes the words “intended, arranged or designed to be
used or occupied.”
   VACANCY. Any unoccupied land, structure or part thereof which is available
and suitable for occupancy.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations of
this chapter where the modification will not be contrary to the public interest
and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of
the action of the applicant, a literal enforcement of this chapter would result
in unnecessary and undue hardship.
   VETERINARY ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR CLINIC. A place used for the case, diagnosis
and treatment of sick, ailing, infirm or injured animals, and those who are in
need of medical or surgical attention, and may include overnight accommodations
on the premises for treatment, observation and/or recuperation. It may also
include boarding that is incidental to the principal activity or use.
   VICINITY MAP. A drawing located on the plat which sets forth, by dimensions
or other means, the relationship of the proposed subdivision or use to other
nearby developments or landmarks and community facilities and services within
the general area, in order to better locate and orient the area in question.
   WALKWAY.  A public way, four feet or more in width, for pedestrian use only
whether along the side of a street or not.
   YARD. An open space, other than a court, on a lot, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard across the full width of the lot extending from the
front lot line of the principal building to the front of the lot. On corner
lots, the FRONT YARD shall face the shortest street dimension of the lot,
except that if the lot is square or almost square, then the front yard may face
either street.
   YARD, REAR.  A yard extending the full width of the lot between a principal
building and the rear lot line or lines.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the principal building and side lot line and
extending from the front yard line to the rear yard line.
   YARD SALE.  The occasional sale of over five items of personal property at a
residence conducted by one or more families in a neighborhood. YARD SALES do
not exceed four consecutive days in length and are not conducted more often
than three times per year. YARD SALES include any sale entitled garage sale,
lawn sale, attic sale, rummage sale or any other similar casual sale of
personal property. Sales exceeding four consecutive days in length and/or
occurring more often than three times per year are classified as perpetual yard
sales and are prohibited on residentially used or zoned property.
   ZERO LOT LINE. The location of a building on a lot in such a manner that one
or more of the building’s sides rest directly on a lot line.
   ZONING. The division of an area into districts, and the public regulation of
the character and intensity of the use of the land and of the buildings and
structures which may be located thereon, in accordance with a comprehensive
plan.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. A legal tool for accomplishing the objectives of a land
use plan. It is an effective regulatory measure designed to encourage high
standards of development and to foster the cost efficient use of land.
   ZONING PERMIT. A document issued by the Zoning Inspector, authorizing the
use of lots, structures, land and buildings, and the characteristics of the
use.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.003 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety and the general welfare. Wherever the requirements of
this chapter are at variance, or in any other way conflict, with the
requirements of any other lawfully adopted city, state and federal rules,
regulations or ordinances, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher
standards, shall govern.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.004 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Any person may file a written complaint whenever a violation of this chapter
occurs or is alleged to have occurred. The complaint shall state fully and
accurately the causes and basis thereof, and be filed with and recorded by the
Zoning Inspector. The Zoning Inspector shall immediately investigate and take
action upon the complaint as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
BOUNDARIES; ZONING MAP
§ 153.015 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of districts as
shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center line of
thoroughfares or highways, street lines, highway right-of-way lines or alleys
shall be construed to follow the centerlines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following
the lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be
construed as following the city limits.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streams, rivers, canals, lakes or other bodies of water shall be construed to
follow the centerlines.
   (F)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following floodplain lines shall
be construed to follow the contour lines.
   (G)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (F) above shall be so controlled. Distances
not specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall be determined by
the scale of the map.
   (H)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown as the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
not covered by divisions (A) through (F) above, the Board of Zoning Adjustment
shall interpret the boundaries.
   (I)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in single
ownership at the time of passage of this chapter, the Board of Zoning
Adjustment may permit, as a special exception, the extension of the regulations
for either portion of the lot not to exceed 50 feet beyond the district line
into the remaining portion of the lot.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.016 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The city is hereby divided into zones, or districts, as shown on the
official zoning map, which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The official zoning map shall be identified by certification and bear
the seal of the city under the following words: “This is to certify that this
is the Official Zoning Map referred to in Article ______ of Ordinance Number
_________ of the City of Guthrie, State of Kentucky” together with the date of
adoption of this chapter. Certification should be by the signature of the Mayor
and attested by the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (C)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and KRS Chapter
100 for cities and other than cities of the first class as changes are made in
district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official zoning map, the
changes shall be entered on the official zoning map promptly after the
amendment has been approved by the City Council with an entry on the official
zoning map as follows:
On —(Date)— by official action of the City Council, the following changes were
made on the official zoning map: _____________________________, which entry
shall be signed by the Zoning Inspector or head of the Planning Commission and
attested by the City Clerk/Treasurer. No changes of any nature shall be made on
the official zoning map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the
procedures set forth in this chapter. Any unauthorized change of any kind by a
person or persons shall be considered a violation of this chapter and
punishable as provided under § 153.999.
   (D)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning
map which from time to time may be published, the official zoning map shall be
located in the office of the Zoning Inspector. It shall be the final authority
as to the current zoning status of land and water areas in the city.
   (E)   In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed,
lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the City Council may by resolution adopt a new official zoning map
which shall supersede the prior official zoning map. The new official zoning
map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions in the prior official
zoning map, but no such correction shall have the effect of amending the
original official zoning map or any subsequent amendment thereof. The official
zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor attested by the
City Clerk/Treasurer and bearing the seal of the city under the following
words: “This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and
replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted —(Date)— as part of Ordinance Number
_________of the City of Guthrie, Kentucky. Unless the prior Official Zoning Map
has been lost, or has been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant
parts thereof remaining shall be preserved, together with all available records
pertaining to its adoption or amendment.”
   (F)   The 2018 zoning map of the city, as prepared by community and
development services and recommended for adoption by the City Planning
Commission, is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety. A
copy of said city’s zoning map shall be available for inspection at regular
business hours at the City Hall.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013; Ord. 2019-4, passed 1-8-2019)
GENERAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 153.030 OBSTRUCTION TO VISION AT STREET INTERSECTION ON CORNER LOTS;
VISIBILITY.
   (A)   Obstruction to vision at street intersections is prohibited.
Additionally, lots adjacent to an intersection shall not obstruct vision of the
intersection within the 30-foot sight triangle.
      (1)   The 30-foot sight triangle is defined as a triangle consisting of
the edge of street pavements intersecting at a point forming the outer
boundaries of the lot and an imaginary line drawn 30 feet from the point of
intersection in either direction.
      (2)   No obstruction to vision between a height of two and one-half feet
and 12 feet above the imaginary plane defined by those three points of
intersection are permitted.
   (B)   No structure, wall, fence, shrubbery or trees shall be erected,
maintained or planted on any lot which will obstruct the view of the driver of
a vehicle approaching an intersection, except that shade trees will be
permitted where all branches are not less than eight feet above the street
level. The minimum sight distances which shall be maintained for intersections
are as follows: (Measurements to be taken 15 feet from the point of the
intersecting pavements.
 
Street         Low Density Medium Density High Density Non-Residential
Local          200'        200'           200'         250'
Minor arterial 200'        200'           240'         250'
Major arterial 275'        275'           300'         300'
 
   (C)   No obstruction shall be placed in the right-of-way.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.031 FENCES AND WALLS.
   No fence, wall or hedge that obstructs sight shall be erected, altered or
placed in any required front yard to exceed a height of three feet above the
street grade and no fence, wall or hedge shall be erected, altered or placed in
any required side or rear yard to exceed a height of eight feet.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.032 CORNER BUILDING SITE.
   In any district, a corner building site having to its rear a building site
facing toward the intersection or side street, shall have provided on the
intersecting or side street of the corner building site a side yard having a
width equal to at least the depth of the front yard required for a structure on
the building site to the rear of the corner building site. This regulation
shall not be applied to reduce the buildable width of the corner building site
to less than 30 feet nor require a side yard of more than 20 feet. No accessory
structure on a corner building site having to its rear a building site facing
toward the intersecting or side street shall be erected or altered nearer to
the intersecting or side street line than the front building line to be
observed by any structure on the building site to the rear of the corner
building site.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.033 ILLUMINATION OF USES.
   Lighting facilities used to illuminate signs, parking areas or for other
purposes shall be so arranged that the source of light does not shine directly
into adjacent residential properties and does not interfere
with traffic.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.034 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Except as otherwise permitted in these regulations, accessory buildings
shall be subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   Where the accessory building is structurally attached to a main
building, it shall be subject to and must conform to all regulations of this
chapter applicable to main or principal buildings.
   (B)   Accessory buildings shall not be erected in any required yard except a
rear yard or side yard; providing that, in no instance shall such a building be
nearer than five feet to any adjoining side lot line or rear lot line.
   (C)   An accessory building, not exceeding one story or 14 feet in height,
may occupy not more than 25% of any non-required yard; provided that, in no
instance shall the accessory building exceed the ground floor of the principal
building.
   (D)   In the case of double frontage lot, accessory buildings shall observe
front yard requirements on both street frontages wherever there are any
principal buildings fronting on the streets in the same block or adjacent
blocks.
   (E)   When an accessory building is to be located on a comer lot, the side
lot line of which is substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the
lot to its rear, the building shall not project beyond the front yard line
required on the lot in rear of the corner lot.
   (F)   In any residential zone, no garage shall be erected closer to the side
lot line than the permitted distance for the dwelling, unless the garage shall
be completely to the rear of the dwelling, in which event the garage may be
erected five feet from the side and rear lot line. No garage or portion thereof
shall extend beyond the front building line of the dwelling. Attached garages
of fireproof construction may be erected to extend beyond the front line of the
house in those areas which are being developed according to a common plan that
includes the construction of attached garages extending beyond the front line
of the house, except that such garages shall not encroach in or upon the
minimum front yard area as required by these regulations, and provided the
cornice, eaves or overhang shall not extend more than six inches into the
required side yard area.
   (G)   Carports constructed in residential zoning district shall comply with
the following requirements.
      (1)   A carport that is placed at the side of an existing residence and
which consists of a roof and supporting posts must be five feet from the
interior side lot line. The carport may also extend to within ten feet of the
side lot line along a public street. The requirements stated in this division
(G) refer to the distance between a side property line and the roof line of the
carport.
      (2)   A carport which is structurally part of a residence (one that is
composed of the same building materials as the house of which it is a part and
one that has the same roof line as the house of which it is a part) shall not
extend into a required side yard. Such a carport is usually constructed at the
same time as the residence of which it is a part.
      (3)   No carport shall extend into the required front yard of a lot.
      (4)   A carport that encroaches into the required side yard of a lot as
permitted by this section may not later be converted into living area, a
storage room garage or other walled structure without approval of the Board of
Zoning Adjustment.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.035 BUSINESS OR INDUSTRY ON SMALL BUILDING SITE.
   If a lot located in an industrial district or in a business district
contains less than the minimum required building site area for the district and
on the effective date of this chapter was lawfully existing and of record and
held in separate and different ownership from any lot immediately adjoining and
having continuous frontage, the lot may be used as the building site for any
use permitted in the district.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.036 DWELLING IN CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Owner-proprietor dwelling units. Any owner-proprietor may provide one
dwelling unit for his or her own occupancy in any Central Business District
structure; exclusive of all zoning restrictions established elsewhere in this
chapter as applicable to dwelling units in the Central Business District. This
section is applicable to the building and other codes of the city which must be
adhered to for all owner-proprietor dwelling units.
   (B)   Commercial-residential use mix in same structure. Commercial and
residential uses may be provided in the same structure, except for residential
uses provided for in division (A) above. Commercial uses may be provided on the
same floor level with a residential use, but shall have separate ingress and
egress.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.037 AUTOMOBILE WRECKING AND JUNKYARDS (SALVAGE YARDS).
   (A)   Because of the nature and character of their operations, automobile
wrecking and salvage yards, junkyards and similar uses of land can have a
decidedly detrimental effect upon surrounding properties. Salvage and wrecking
yards tend to create problems of noise, dust, traffic and health hazards; and
may adversely affect property values by their general appearance.
   (B)   The following standards shall be used as a guide in evaluating whether
proposed land uses, such as those outlined herein, will have properly minimized
their objectionable characteristics.
      (1)   Licensing. All salvage yards must be licensed. An application to
establish a salvage yard in the city shall be filed with the Planning
Commission and approved by the Board of Zoning Adjustment. For the purpose of
this chapter, junkyards, automobile wrecking yards and similar operations shall
be known as SALVAGE YARDS.
      (2)   Location. No salvage yard shall be permitted closer than 500 feet
from any established residential district, unless in existence prior to the
adoption of this chapter. The storage of three or more unlicensed abandoned
vehicles and salvaged vehicles must be in an approved and licensed salvage
yard. All abandoned and junked motor vehicles and other similar large salvage
articles that can be seen from any public right-of-way shall be moved to a
licensed salvage yard within one year of the effective date of this chapter.
      (3)   Screening. All outdoor storage in salvage yards shall be conducted
entirely within an enclosed fence or wall, except the driveway area. The fence
or wall shall be seven feet in height and appropriately screened to prohibit
the visibility of the salvage material. Storage outside or above such fence or
wall is expressly prohibited. Any fence or wall erected for screening purposes
shall comply with §§ 153.170 through 153.188.
      (4)   Ingress and egress. The maximum number of vehicular access
driveways for salvage yards having frontage on a state or federal highway shall
be as regulated by the State Department of Transportation. The maximum number
of vehicular access driveways for salvage yards having frontage on a city
street shall be regulated by the City Council with recommendations from the
Planning Commission.
      (5)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be as regulated in §§
153.115 through
153.118.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.038 CLASSIFICATION OF NEW AND UNLISTED USES.
   It is recognized that new types of land uses will develop and that different
forms of land uses will seek to locate in the city. In order to provide for the
changes, a determination of the appropriate zoning classification of any new or
unlisted form of land use shall be made as follows.
   (A)   All questions concerning the classification of new or unlisted uses
shall be referred to the Zoning Inspector for an interpretation of this
chapter. The referral of the use interpretation question shall be accompanied
by a statement of facts listing the nature of the use and whether it involves
dwelling activity, sales, processing, storage and amount and nature thereof,
anticipated employment, types of product, transportation requirements, nature
and time of occupancy or operation of the premises, the amount of noise, odor,
fumes, dust, toxic material and vibrations likely to be generated, and the
requirements for public utilities such as sanitary sewers and water.
   (B)   The Zoning Inspector shall consider the nature and described
performance of the proposed use and assign a use classification descriptive of
the proposed use from Appendix A (Schedule of Uses) attached to the ordinance
from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272, or assign a use as is otherwise specifically provided for in this
chapter.
   (C)   Appeals from determinations of the Zoning Inspector are made to the
Board of Zoning Adjustment pursuant to §§
153.260 through
153.271.
   (D)   If the Zoning Inspector or the Board of Zoning Adjustment, operating
under divisions (B) or (C) above, determines the described use does not appear
within the code, the Zoning Inspector or the Board of Zoning Adjustment will
transmit a copy of the determination to the Planning Commission and City
Council. The Planning Commission or City Council may initiate a text amendment
to schedule the proposed use.
   (E)   Barring amendment as provided in division (D) above, proposed uses
which do not appear within the code shall not be deemed a permitted use within
the city.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
DISTRICTS
§ 153.050 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The intent of this District is to provide
single-family residential areas with relatively low population densities and to
prohibit uses which would destroy the residential character of the
neighborhood, that is, commercial and industrial.
   (B)   Permitted uses. See Appendix A, Schedule of Uses, attached to the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272.
   (C)   Conditional uses. See Appendix A, Schedule of Uses, attached to the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   Building site area. Each lot shall have an area not less than
17,500 square feet.
      (2)   Building site width. The minimum building site width at the
building setback line shall be 75 feet.
      (3)   Building site coverage. The total lot coverage permitted for all
buildings on the site shall not exceed 35%.
      (4)   Building height limit. The maximum building height shall not exceed
two stories or 35 feet in height.
      (5)   Setback requirements. The minimum requirements for yards shall be
as follows:
         (a)   Front yard shall be one-half the width of the right-of-way of
the street the building fronts; the yard shall be a minimum of 25 feet and
shall not be required to exceed 40 feet;
         (b)   Rear yard: 20 feet; and
         (c)   Side yard: ten feet.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.051 R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The intent of this district is to provide an
alternative to the R-1 Single-Family Residential District. This district
provides a medium density as compared to the R-1 District yet is intended to
preserve the single-family residential character and prevent encroachment from
incompatible uses which may diminish property values.
   (B)   Permitted uses. See Appendix A, Schedule of Uses, attached to the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272.
   (C)   Conditional uses. See Appendix A, Schedule of Uses, attached to the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   Building site area. Each lot shall have an area of not less than
12,500 square feet.
      (2)   Building site width. The minimum building site width at the
building setback line shall be 60 feet.
      (3)   Building site coverage. The total lot coverage for all buildings on
the site shall not exceed 40% of the lot area.
      (4)   Building height limit. The maximum building height limit shall not
exceed two stories or 35 feet in height.
      (5)   Setback requirements. The minimum requirements for yards shall be
as follows:
         (a)   Front yard shall be one-half the width of the right-of-way of
the street the building fronts; the yard shall be a minimum of 25 feet and
shall not be required to exceed 40 feet;
         (b)   Rear yard: 20 feet; and
         (c)   Side yard: ten feet.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.052 R-3 ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. This district is intended to provide for
residential areas of medium population density. One- and two-family dwellings
are the principal land use for this district. The district also is intended to
protect the residential character of the neighborhood by prohibiting commercial
activities.
   (B)   Permitted uses. See Appendix A, Schedule of Uses, attached to the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272.
   (C)   Conditional uses. See Appendix A, Schedule of Uses, attached to the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   Building site area. Each lot shall have an area not less than 7,500
square feet per unit for single-family detached and 10,000 square feet per two-
family (duplexes).
      (2)   Building site width. The minimum building site width at the
building setback line shall be 50 feet for single-family detached and 60 feet
for two-family (duplexes).
      (3)   Building site coverage. The total lot coverage permitted for all
buildings on the site shall not exceed 45% for single-family detached and 50%
for two-family (duplexes).
      (4)   Building height limit. The maximum building height shall not exceed
35 feet for single-family detached and 35 feet for two-family (duplexes).
      (5)   Setback requirements. The minimum requirements for yards for both
single-family detached and two-family (duplexes) dwelling units are 25 feet for
front yard, 20 feet for rear yard, and seven feet for side yard.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.053 R-4 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The intent of this district is to provide for
residential areas of high population density. The specific intent of this
district is to ensure that only residential uses as can be properly designed
and built will be allowed in this district so as not to overcrowd the land and
cause parking or traffic congestions, or to have injurious effects of adjacent
properties.
   (B)   Permitted uses. See Appendix A, Schedule of Uses, attached to the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272.
   (C)   Conditional uses. See Appendix A, Schedule of Uses, attached to the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   Building site area. Each lot shall have an area not less than the
following:
         (a)   Single-family detached: 5,000 square feet per unit;
         (b)   Two-family (duplexes): 8,000 square feet per two units; and
         (c)   Multi-family: 2,170 square feet per three units or more.
      (2)   Building site width. The minimum site width at the building setback
line shall be as follows:
         (a)   Single-family detached: 50 feet;
         (b)   Two-family (duplexes): 50 feet; and
         (c)   Multi-family: 60 feet.
      (3)   Building site coverage. The total lot coverage permitted for all
buildings on the site shall not exceed the following:
         (a)   Single-family detached: 45%;
         (b)   Two-family (duplexes): 50%; and
         (c)   Multi-family: 55%.
      (4)   Building height limit. The maximum building height shall not exceed
the following:
         (a)   Single-family detached: 35 feet;
         (b)   Two-family (duplexes): 35 feet; and
         (c)   Multi-family: no height limit.
      (5)   Setback requirements. The minimum requirements for yards shall be
as follows:
         (a)   Front yard: 25 feet;
         (b)   Rear yard: 15 feet; and
         (c)   Side yard: five feet, plus two feet for each story above the
second floor.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.054 R-5 HIGH DENSITY MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. This district is intended to provide for
residential areas of very high population density. At the same time, this
district is intended to provide standards for this type of residential activity
to prevent overcrowding, traffic congestions and overloading of public
utilities.
   (B)   Permitted uses. See Appendix A, Schedule of Uses, attached to the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272.
   (C)   Conditional uses. See Appendix A, Schedule of Uses, attached to the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   Building site area. Each lot shall have an area not less than the
following:
         (a)   Single-family detached: 4,000 square feet per unit:
         (b)   Two-family (duplexes): 7,000 square feet per two units; and
         (c)   Multi-family: 1,240 square feet per three units or more.
      (2)   Building site width. The minimum building site width at the
building setback lines shall be as follows:
         (a)   Single-family detached: 50 feet;
         (b)   Two-family (duplexes): 50 feet; and
         (c)   Multi-family: 60 feet.
      (3)   Building site coverage. The total lot coverage permitted for
building on the site shall not exceed the following:
         (a)   Single-family detached: 45%;
         (b)   Two-family (duplexes): 50%; and
         (c)   Multi-family: 60%.
      (4)   Building height limit. The maximum building height shall not exceed
the following:
         (a)   Single-family detached: 35 feet;
         (b)   Two-family (duplexes): 35 feet; and
         (c)   Multi-family: no height limit.
      (5)   Setback requirements. The minimum requirements for yards shall be
as follows.
         (a)   Single-family detached.
            1.   Front yard: 25 feet;
            2.   Rear yard: ten feet; and
            3.   Side yard: five feet.
         (b)   Two-family (duplexes).
            1.   Front yard: 25 feet;
            2.   Rear yard: ten feet; and
            3.   Side yard: five feet.
         (c)   Multi-family.
            1.   Front yard: one-half the width of the right-of-way of the
street the building fronts, the yard shall be a minimum of 25 feet and shall
not be required to exceed 40 feet;
            2.   Rear yard: 20 feet; and
            3.   Side yard: five feet, plus two feet for each story above the
second floor.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.055 ZLL ZERO LOT LINE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The principal purposes of the zero lot line
concept are:
      (1)   The more efficient use of land, as compared with the typical
single-family development, making available needed housing at a more affordable
cost;
      (2)   The design of dwellings that integrate and relate internal-external
living areas resulting in more pleasant and enjoyable living facilities; and
      (3)   By placing the dwelling against one of the property lines,
permitting the outdoor space to be grouped and utilized to its maximum benefit.
   (B)   Permitted districts.
      (1)   A zero lot line development for single-family attached and single-
family detached dwellings are permitted by right in an R-3, R-4 and R-
5 Residential District, in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   A zero lot line development for single-family attached or single-
family detached dwellings is permitted in an R-1 or R-2 zone upon the issuance
of a conditional use permit by the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
   (C)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Single-family detached and attached dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family or duplexes; and
      (3)   Accessory buildings and structures provided no such building or
structure shall be designed or used for dwelling purposes.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   Building site area. Each lot shall have an area not less than 3,500
square feet.
      (2)   Building site width. The minimum building site width at the
building setback line shall be 20 feet.
      (3)   Building site coverage. The total lot coverage permitted for all
buildings on the site shall not exceed 50% of the lot area.
      (4)   Building height limit. The maximum building height shall not exceed
two stories or 35 feet in height.
      (5)   Setback requirements.
         (a)   Interior side yard. The detached dwelling unit shall be placed
on one interior side property line with a zero setback and the dwelling unit
setback on the other interior side property line shall be a minimum of ten
feet, excluding the connecting elements such as fences, walls and trellises.
Patios, pools, garden features and other similar elements shall be permitted
within the ten-foot setback area; provided, however, no structure, with the
exception of fences or walls, shall be placed within easements required by this
section.
         (b)   Interior side yard. The attached dwelling unit shall be placed
on the interior side property line with a zero setback and the dwelling unit
setback on the other interior side property line can also be placed on the
property line with a zero setback.
         (c)   Exterior side yard. The dwelling unit shall be placed ten feet
from all exterior property lines.
         (d)   Front setback. All dwelling structures shall be set back a
minimum of 25 feet from the front property line.
         (e)   Rear setback. The required rear setback is ten feet.
         (f)   Side street setback. The dwelling setback shall be a minimum of
15 feet from the side street property line.
   (E)   General requirements.
      (1)   Platting requirements. Each dwelling shall be located on its own
individual platted lot. If areas for common use of occupants of the
developments are shown on the plat, satisfactory arrangements shall be made for
the maintenance of the common open space and facilities as provided in division
(E)(8) below. The plat shall indicate the zero lot lines and easements
appurtenant thereto.
      (2)   Openings prohibited on the zero lot line side. The wall of the
dwelling located on the lot line shall have no windows, doors, air conditioning
units or any other type of openings, provided however, that atriums or courts
shall be permitted on the zero lot line side when the court or atrium is
enclosed by three walls of the dwelling unit and a solid wall of at least eight
feet in height is provided on the zero lot line. The wall shall be constructed
of the same material as exterior walls of the unit.
      (3)   Maintenance and drainage easements. A perpetual four-foot wall-
maintenance easement, for detached dwellings, shall be provided on the lot
adjacent to the zero lot line property line, which, with the exception of walls
or fences, shall be kept clear of structures. This easement shall be shown on
the plat and incorporated into each deed transferring title to the property.
The wall shall be maintained in its original color and treatment unless
otherwise agreed to in writing by the two affected lot owners. Roof overhangs
may penetrate the easement on the adjacent lot a maximum of 24 inches, but the
roof shall be so designed that water runoff from the dwelling placed on the lot
lines is limited to the easement area.
      (4)   Separation between dwellings on adjacent lots. There shall be a
separation between dwellings on adjacent lots of not less than ten feet.
      (5)   Off-street parking. Each dwelling shall have not less than two off-
street parking spaces. Enclosed garages or carports are not required, but if
carports or garages are built they must be attached. If carports or garages are
to be incorporated in the future the site plan must show the placement of the
structures prior to approval by the Zoning Inspector or Planning Commission.
      (6)   Trees.
         (a)   Trees, as defined within §§
153.170 through
153.188, shall be provided on the basis of three trees for each platted lot. In
addition, street shade trees shall be provided along the side of the roadway at
a minimum spacing of 20 feet on center for private roads.
         (b)   In case of development with public roads, the trees may be
placed on private lots in lieu of the public right-of-way provided that 20-foot
spacing and the rowing of trees are maintained. This shall be in addition to
the three trees required for each platted lot.
      (7)   Accessory buildings and structures. Accessory buildings and
structures shall be subject to the following requirements.
         (a)   No such building or structure shall be located within a required
front or street-abutting side yard.
         (b)   No such building or structure shall be located within five feet
of a dwelling or another accessory building or structure, nor within two feet
of any interior property line.
         (c)   No such building or structure shall exceed ten feet in height
without a conditional use permit.
      (8)   Common open space and maintenance of facilities. Common open space
is not required but may be permitted. If common open space is provided,
provisions satisfactory to the City Council shall be made to assure that
nonpublic areas and facilities for the common use of occupants of zero lot line
development shall be maintained in a satisfactory manner, without expense to
the general taxpayers of the city.
      (9)   Open space. There shall be an open space on each lot of not less
than 300 square feet with no dimension less than 15 feet. The open space area
shall be exclusive of required front and street-abutting side yards and
vehicular driveways and further shall be subject to the following.
         (a)   The required open space may include side or rear yards.
         (b)   Pools and paved recreational areas may be developed in the
required open space.
         (c)   The gradient or slope of any required open space shall not
exceed 12%. The open space may be provided on a deck.
         (d)   The open space shall be fully open to the sky.
         (e)   An accessory building may not occupy any part of the required
open space.
   (F)   Site plan review. A site plan review is required to encourage
communication between the applicant and the Planning Commission staff. A site
plan review will promote a greater degree of logic, imagination, innovation and
variety in the design process. The site plan submittal should follow the
guidelines as set forth in §§
153.220 through
153.226.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.056 RMH RESIDENTIAL MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOUSING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. These districts are composed of areas containing
manufactured (mobile) housing dwelling sites. Such areas shall be well suited
for residential purposes.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ANCHORING SYSTEM. An approved system of straps, cables, turnbuckles,
chains, ties or other approved materials used to secure a manufactured or
mobile home.
         COMPATIBILITY STANDARDS.  Standards that have been enacted by local
government under the authority of this section for the purpose of protecting
and preserving the monetary value of real property located within the local
government’s jurisdiction.
(KRS 100.348)
         DESIGN, RESIDENTIAL. A qualified manufactured home which has the same
siding materials and pitched shingled roofs as used on conventional homes
located within the impact areas.
         DESIGN, STANDARD. A bowed metal roof and aluminum siding, the
traditional “mobile home” look.
         FOUNDATION SIDING/SKIRTING. A type of wainscoting constructed of fire
and weather resistant material such as aluminum, treated pressed wood or other
approved materials, enclosing the entire undercarriage of the manufactured or
mobile home.
         HUD LABEL.  The label affixed to a new manufactured home by the
manufacturer after it has been approved by a third-party inspector, as required
under the HUD Act.
(815 KAR 25:050)
         IMPACT AREA. A radius of 200 yards drawn around the proposed placement
of a qualified manufactured home with the proposed placement being the center
point.
         MANUFACTURED HOME. A single-family residential dwelling constructed
after June 15, 1976, in accordance with the National Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards Act, Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.,
as amended, and designed to be used as a single-family residential dwelling
with or without permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities,
and which includes plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
contained therein.
(KRS 100.348)
         MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership on
which two or more manufactured homes are occupied as residences and meeting the
requirements of this section.
         MOBILE HOME. A structure manufactured prior to June 15, 1976, that was
not required to be constructed in accordance with the National Manufactured
Housing Construction in Safety Standards Act, that is transportable in one or
more sections, that, in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width
and 40 body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, 400 or more square
feet, and that is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling on a temporary or permanent foundation, when connected with the
permanent required utilities, including plumbing, heating, air conditioning and
electrical systems.
(KRS 100.348)
         MODULAR HOME.  (R202, 2002 Kentucky Residential Building Code) An
industrialized building system which is designed to be used as a residence and
which is not a manufactured or mobile home.
         PERMANENT FOUNDATION. Any structural system for transposing loads from
a structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity. The PERMANENT FOUNDATION system shall
include a method of transporting loads to the earth and shall provide for a
continuous exterior enclosure between the perimeter of the house and the earth.
The overall system shall be an engineered system to comply with soil
conditions. Applicable standards would include manufacturer’s recommendations
in compliance with H.U.D. requirements and recognized standards such as A225.1
(ANSI) and Guideline Standards for the Installation of Manufactured Housing
(CABO).
         QUALIFIED MANUFACTURED HOME. (KRS 100.348) A manufactured home meeting
all of the following criteria:
         (a)   Is manufactured on or after July 15, 2002;
         (b)   Is affixed to a permanent foundation and is connected to the
appropriate facilities and is installed in compliance with KRS 227.570;
         (c)   Has a width of at least 20 feet at its smallest width
measurement or is two stories in height and oriented on the lot or parcel so
its main entrance door faces the street;
         (d)   Has a minimum total living area of 900 square feet; and
         (e)   Is not located in a manufactured home land-lease community.
         QUALIFIED MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed and
intended primarily for the sale of lots for residential occupancy by
manufactured homes.
         RECREATION VEHICLE (RV). A vehicular portable structure built on a
chassis and not exceeding a gross weight of 4,500 pounds when factory-equipped
for the road or an overall length of 30 feet and designed to be used as a
temporary dwelling, travel, recreational and vacation uses.
         SECTION. A unit of a manufactured home at least ten body feet in width
and 30 body feet in length.
         SUPPORT SYSTEM.  A pad or combination of footing, piers, caps, plates
and shims, which when properly installed, support the manufactured/mobile home.
   (C)   Classification of manufactured/mobile homes.
      (1)   Classification standards.
         (a)   Qualified manufactured home. A “qualified manufactured home” as
defined by KRS 100.348 and incorporated herein;
         (b)   Manufactured home Class A. A manufactured home certified as
meeting the Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, Residential Designed Home Placed on a Permanent
Foundation;
         (c)   Manufactured home Class B. A manufactured home certified as
meeting the Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, Standard Designed Home Placed on a Temporary or
Permanent Foundation; and
         (d)   Mobile home. A MOBILE HOME as defined by KRS 219.320 and
incorporated herein.
      (2)   Permitted placement.
         (a)   The establishment, location and use of a qualified manufactured
home as a permanent residence approved individually, by specific materials or
by design, shall be permitted in any district permitting a dwelling unit,
subject to the requirements applying to residential uses in the district,
subject to the compatibility criteria of division (D) below and provided the
dwelling shall meet the exterior appearance standards, as set forth in division
(E) below. A zoning/building permit shall be required for all applications for
such use; approval procedure is set forth in §§
153.240 through
153.246. Applications for approval shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission on the appropriate forms as required to make a determination on the
compatibility of the proposed structure.
         (b)   The establishment, location and use of a manufactured home as a
permanent residence approved individually, by specific materials or by design,
shall be permitted subject to the requirements of this chapter only in RMH
zones. Location of a manufactured home shall require a zoning/building permit
once the rezoning request has been approved.
         (c)   The placement of a mobile home as a residence is prohibited
within the city.
      (3)   Procedure for approval of qualified manufactured homes.
         (a)   At a minimum, the application shall contain the following
information:
            1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
            2.   Building detail, including but not limited to, structure size,
structure height, building area, roof pitch, foundation detail and number of
stories;
            3.   Electrical detail;
            4.   Legal description of property;
            5.   Lot detail, including, but not limited to, building setbacks,
lot width and existing structures;
            6.   Easement widths, including but not limited to, all utility and
drainage easements;
            7.   Plan of the proposed site for the qualified manufactured home
placement showing streets, property lines, lot dimensions, existing structures,
proposed structures, setback distances and all utility and drainage easements;
            8.   List of subcontractors to be employed on the project including
name, address, phone number and license number;
            9.   Certification signed by the applicant; and
            10.   Any other materials, which may be deemed necessary to
determine conformance with and provide for the information of this chapter.
         (b)   Immediately after the filing of an application, it shall be
transmitted to the Commission, and heard during a regular or special called
Planning Commission meeting.
         (c)   Within 60 days from the receipt of the application, the Planning
Commission will make a determination to deny, conditionally approve or approve
the proposed placement of the qualified manufactured home.
   (D)   Compatibility standards for qualified manufactured homes.
      (1)   In order to determine the percent of compatibility or
incompatibility the following calculations apply.
         (a)   The site of the proposed qualified manufactured home will be the
center point and a radius of 200 yards will be drawn encompassing the impact
area.
         (b)   The number of habitable single-family units within the impact
area will be counted. The number of existing units, which meet or exhibit the
same characteristics of the proposed qualified manufactured homes, will be
counted.
         (c)   In determining compatibility, each characteristic, i.e., size,
roof pitch and elevation will be counted separately. The following measurements
apply.
            1.   The size of a proposed qualified manufactured home that has a
gross floor area of 200 square feet above or below the average of existing
structures within a 200-yard radius of the proposed site is deemed compatible.
            2.   The roof pitch of a proposed qualified manufactured home that
demonstrates a roof pitch at or above the average of existing structures within
a 200-yard radius of the proposed site is deemed compatible.
            3.   The elevation of a proposed qualified manufactured home that
measures at or maximum of one vertical foot above the average of existing
structures shall be deemed compatible.
            4.   The number of stories of a proposed qualified manufactured
home that conforms with the average number of stories of existing structures
shall be deemed compatible.
         (d)   The number of units for each characteristic will be totaled and
divided by the total number of units to determine the applicable percentage.
      (2)   The criteria used to determine compatibility is as follows.
         (a)   Number of qualified manufactured homes in area (R-1, R-2, R-3).
            1.   If the proposed placement is either the first or second
existing or permitted manufactured home or qualified manufactured home in the
area, the placement is incompatible.
            2.   If the proposed placement is the third or more existing or
permitted manufactured home or qualified manufactured home in the area, the
proposed placement is considered compatible and the percent of facade of
structure should be considered.
         (b)   Number of qualified manufactured homes in area (R-4, R-5).
            1.   If the proposed placement is either the first existing or
permitted manufactured home or qualified manufactured home in the area, the
placement is incompatible.
            2.   If the proposed placement is the second or more existing or
permitted manufactured home or qualified manufactured home in the area, the
proposed placement is considered compatible and the percent of facade of
structure should be considered.
         (c)   Percent of facade of structure.
            1.   If there are 0% to 10% of existing structures with facades
which meet or exhibit the same facade of the proposed qualified manufactured
home, the proposed placement is incompatible.
            2.   If there are 11% to 50% of existing structures with facades
which meet or exhibit the same facade of the proposed qualified manufactured
home, see division (D)(2)(g) below.
            3.   If there are 51% to 100% of existing structures with facades
which meet or exhibit the same facade of the proposed qualified manufactured
home; the proposed placement is compatible and the percent of size of structure
should be considered.
         (d)   Percent of size of structure (taking into account length and
width dimensions as well as overall square footage).
            1.   If there are 0% to 10% of existing structures which are of
similar size as the proposed qualified manufactured home, the proposed
placement is incompatible.
            2.   If there are 11% to 50% of existing structures which are of
similar size as the proposed qualified manufactured home see division (D)(2)(g)
below.
            3.   If there are 51% to 100%, of existing structures which are of
similar size as the proposed qualified manufactured home, the proposed
placements is considered compatible and the percent of roof pitch of structure
should be considered.
         (e)   Percent of roof pitch of structure.
            1.   If there are 0% to 10% of existing structures with roof pitch,
which meet or exhibit the same roof pitch of the proposed qualified
manufactured home, the proposed placement is incompatible.
            2.   If there are 11% to 50% of existing structures with roof
pitch, which meet or exhibit the same roof pitch of the proposed qualified
manufactured home see division (D)(2)(g) below.
            3.   If there are 51% to 100% of existing structures with roof
pitch which meet or exhibit the same roof pitch of the proposed qualified
manufactured home, the proposed placement is compatible and the percent of
elevation of structure should be considered.
         (f)   Percent of elevation of structure.
            1.   If there are 0% to 10% of existing structures with elevation,
which meet or exhibit the same elevation of the proposed qualified manufactured
home, the proposed placement is incompatible.
            2.   If there are 11 % to 50% of existing structures with
elevation, which meet or exhibit the same elevation of the proposed qualified
manufactured home see division (D)(2)(g).
            3.   If there are 51% to 100% of existing structures with elevation
which meet or exhibit the same elevation of the proposed qualified manufactured
home, the proposed placement is compatible and the next criteria should be
considered.
         (g)   Where structure falls within the 11% to 50% range of
characteristics divisions (D)(2)(c), (D)(2)(d), (D)(2)(e) and (D)(2)(f); the
average of percentages must meet or exceed 50% for all four characteristics to
be compatible.
   (E)   Exterior appearance standards. Every manufactured home shall:
      (1)   Meet all requirements for lot, yard, building and other
requirements for the district in which it is located;
      (2)   Be placed on a permanent foundation;
      (3)   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure in accordance with the
approved installation standards and this section;
      (4)   Be anchored to the ground in accordance with the manufacturer’s
specifications;
      (5)   Have all wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
      (6)   Have utilities connected, in accordance with the city requirements
and manufacturer’s specifications;
      (7)   Have siding material which looks like the type used on site-
constructed residences;
      (8)   Have a pitch roof of not less than four inches of rise for each one
foot of horizontal run and have roofing material of a type used on site-
constructed residences;
      (9)   Have a minimum width of the main body as assembled on the site of
not less than 20 feet, measured across the narrowest portion and shall fall
within the meaning of “qualified manufactured home;” and
      (10)   The home shall appear to face the public street.
   (F)   Replacement of nonconforming homes.
      (1)   A manufactured or mobile home placed and maintained on a tract of
land and deemed to be a legal nonconforming use prior to the adoption of this
chapter, shall continue to be a legal nonconforming use. If the nonconforming
use is discontinued, or abandoned for more than two years, the land thereafter
must be used in conformity with all provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   A manufactured or mobile home deemed a legal nonconforming use may
be replaced by a qualified manufactured home, provided the replacement is as
follows: a mobile home may be replaced with a qualified manufactured home or a
manufactured home; a manufactured home could be replaced with a qualified
manufactured home; a qualified manufactured home could be replaced with another
qualified manufactured home.
   (G)   Approval procedure. Manufactured home parks and qualified manufactured
home subdivisions shall be located only in a Residential Manufactured (Mobile)
Housing District (RMH) and shall be developed according to the general
regulations slated and referenced in this section. The procedure to amend the
zoning map shall conform to the requirements specified in §§ 153.200 through
153.209.
   (H)   General regulations. Any proposed placement of a qualified
manufactured home shall conform to the following requirements, showing that the
development:
      (1)   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the character of the vicinity of
the proposed manufactured/mobile home park or subdivision and will not change
the essential character of the area;
      (2)   Will not be detrimental to existing or future residential uses;
      (3)   Will be served adequately by public facilities and services or that
the persons responsible for the establishments of the proposed park or
subdivision shall be able to provide adequate services;
      (4)   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
streets; and
      (5)   Will be required to conform to the requirements of the city
subdivision regulations.
   (I)   Manufactured home park requirements (RMH-1).
      (1)   The minimum site shall contain two and one-half acres unless the
development is an extension of an existing park. The procedure and design of a
manufactured home park shall be the same as those provided for in the
subdivision regulations. The manufactured/mobile home park shall meet the
requirements of the county’s Health Department.
      (2)   Individual qualified manufactured homes located within the
manufactured home park shall have a minimum floor area of 900 square feet.
      (3)   Any qualified manufactured housing or manufactured home shall be
allowed placement in a manufactured home park (RMH-1).
      (4)   Placement of a qualified manufactured home or a manufactured home
on a permanent foundation is not required, but all units must be anchored in
accordance with the State Building Code and the manufacturer’s specifications.
      (5)   The removal of the wheels and tongue from a qualified manufactured
home or a manufactured home shall be required in a RMH-1 District.
      (6)   All proposed placements of qualified manufactured homes or
manufactured homes, as provided in this section, will be required to access and
utilize sanitary sewer.
   (J)   Qualified manufactured home subdivision requirements (RMH-2).
      (1)   The size of a qualified manufactured home subdivision shall be as
provided for a manufactured home park. The procedure and design of a qualified
manufactured home subdivision shall be the same as those provided for in the
city subdivision regulations.
      (2)   Only qualified manufactured homes shall be allowed placement in a
qualified manufactured home subdivision RMH-2.
      (3)   All qualified manufactured homes shall conform to the exterior
appearance standards as provided in this section.
   (K)   Standards RMH-1 and RMH-2.
      (1)   Building site area. The minimum building site area shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Single-family detached: 5,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Semi-attached two-family: 7,000 square feet.
      (2)   Building site width. The minimum building site width shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Single-family detached: 50 feet; and
         (b)   Semi-attached two-family: 60 feet.
      (3)   Building site coverage. The maximum building site coverage by a
building shall be 35%.
      (4)   Building height limit. No structure shall exceed 35 feet.
      (5)   Setback requirements. The minimum requirements for yards shall be
as follows:
         (a)   Single-family detached, semi-attached two-family:
            1.   Front yard: one-half the width of the right-of-way of the
street in which the building fronts; the yard shall be a minimum of 25 feet and
shall not be required to exceed 40 feet;
            2.   Side yard: ten feet; and
            3.   Rear yard: 20 feet.
         (b)   For other permitted uses:
            1.   Front yard: 40 feet;
            2.   Side yard: 25 feet; and
            3.   Rear yard, 25 feet.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.057 PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The intent of planned unit development (PUD) is
to permit greater flexibility and consequently, more creative and imaginative
design for development of residential areas than generally is possible under
the conventional zoning regulations. It is further intended to promote more
economical and efficient use of the land while providing a harmonious variety
of housing choices, a higher level of urban amenities and preservation of
natural qualities of open space.
   (B)   Permitted districts.
      (1)   Residential planned unit developments are allowed by right in the
R-3, R-4 and R-5 Districts, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   A residential planned unit development is permitted in an R-1 and
R-2 Residential District upon the issuance of a conditional use permit by the
Board of Zoning Adjustment.
      (3)   Residential/commercial planned unit developments are allowed by
right in the B-2 and P-1 Districts, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses:
      (1)   Detached and attached single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings or duplexes;
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (4)   Accessory uses and structures provided that no such buildings or
structures shall be designed or used for dwelling purposes;
      (5)   Public uses and buildings including libraries, museums, parks,
playgrounds, schools and community buildings, owned and controlled by the city
or school district if their location is first approved by the City Council; and
      (6)   Any proposal which uses have been reviewed and recommended for
approval by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   Area size. The minimum size of a PUD shall not be less than one
acre.
      (2)   Building site coverage. The total lot coverage permitted for all
buildings on the site shall not exceed 60% of the lot area.
      (3)   Building height limit. The maximum building height limit of any
building shall not exceed 70 feet in height.
      (4)   Setback requirements. Setback requirements shall be as follows:
         (a)   Front yard: any building facing a local street, minor or major
artery, as defined in the subdivision regulations, shall be one-half of the
right-of-way or not less than 25 feet and not to exceed 40 feet;
         (b)   Side yard (from adjoining property line): 20 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard (from adjoining property line): 20 feet.
   (E)   General requirements.
      (1)   Platting requirements. Each PUD shall be platted. The plat shall
contain information as required in the site plan review found in §§
153.220 through
153.226. The plat shall also conform to the requirements set forth in this
section. In the event that conflicts occur, this section shall prevail.
      (2)   Density. The density for all approved PUD plans shall not exceed
the density requirements found in an R-5 High Density Multi-Family Residential
District.
      (3)   Open space. At least 20% of the total gross area shall be devoted
to the properly planned, permanent, usable open space. The common open space
shall be used for recreational, park or environmental amenity for common
enjoyment by occupants of the development, but shall not include public or
private streets, driveways or utility easements.
      (4)   Maintenance of common open space. Planned unit developments shall
be approved subject to the submission of a legal instrument or instruments
setting forth a plan or manner of permanent care and maintenance of the open
spaces, recreational areas and community owned facilities. No such instruments
shall be accepted until approval by the City Attorney as to legal form and
effect, and the Planning Commission as to suitability for the proposed use of
the open space.
      (5)   Landscaping.
         (a)   A landscaping plan shall be required at a time of initial
submission, showing the spacing, sizes and specific types of landscaping
material. (See §§
153.170 through
153.188.)
         (b)   Existing trees shall be preserved whenever possible. The
location of trees should be considered when planning the common open space,
location of buildings, underground structures, walks, paved area, playgrounds,
parking areas and finished grade levels.
         (c)   A grading plan which will confine excavation, earth-moving
procedures and other changes to the landscape in order to ensure preservation
and prevent despoliation of the area to be retained as common open space.
      (6)   Traffic circulation. Principal vehicular access points shall be
designed to permit smooth traffic flow with controlled turning movements and
minimum hazards to vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
      (7)   Street construction.
         (a)   Standards of design and construction for both public and
private, within planned residential development shall comply with the standards
of design set forth in the subdivision regulations.
         (b)   Streets in a PUD may be dedicated to public use or may be
retained under private ownership. However, if the streets are dedicated to the
city, the streets shall be constructed in accordance with standards required by
the city.
      (8)   Parking.
         (a)   For each dwelling unit, there shall be off-street parking spaces
consisting of not less than 180 square feet each. Variances from this
requirement can be obtained from the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
         (b)   Parking areas shall be arranged so as to prevent through traffic
to other parking areas.
         (c)   Parking areas shall be screened from adjacent structures, roads
and traffic arteries with hedges, dense planting, earth berms, changes in grade
or walls.
         (d)   No more than 15 parking spaces shall be permitted in a
continuous row without being interrupted by landscaping.
         (e)   No more than 60 parking spaces shall be accommodated in any
single parking area.
         (f)   All streets and any off-street loading area shall be paved. All
areas shall be marked so as to provide for orderly and safe loading, parking
and storage.
         (g)   Parking for nonresidential purposes shall be provided
appropriate to the type of nonresidential use, as set forth in §§
153.115 through
153.118.
         (h)   All common parking areas shall be adequately lighted. All such
lighting shall be so arranged as to direct the light away from adjoining
residences.
         (i)   All parking areas and off-street loading areas shall be graded
and drained so as to dispose of all surface water without erosion, flooding and
other inconveniences.
      (9)   Buffers. Where a PUD abuts another district of lower intensity, a
permanent open space at least 25 feet wide shall be provided along the property
line and shall be maintained with landscaping. No driveway or off-street
parking shall be permitted in this area. (See §§
153.170 through
153.188.)
      (10)   Nonresidential development.
         (a)   Nonresidential uses, limited to those specifically recommended
for approval by the Planning Commission, are permitted in a planned unit
development provided that such uses primarily are for the service and
convenience of the residents of the development.
         (b)   Layout of parking areas, service areas, entrances, exits, yards,
courts, landscaping and control of signs, lighting, noise or other potentially
adverse influences shall be such as to protect residential character within the
PUD District and desirable character in any adjoining residence district.
         (c)   No building permit for any nonresidential use in a mixed PUD,
i.e., residential/commercial or professional shall be issued prior to having at
least 50% of the residential dwellings under construction.
   (F)   Site plan review. A site plan review is required to encourage
communication between the applicant and the Planning Commission staff. A site
plan review will also promote a greater degree of logic, imagination,
innovation and variety in the design process. The site plan submittal should
follow the guidelines as set forth in §§
153.220 through
153.226.
   (G)   Review procedure.
      (1)   Approval process. The following requirements must be fulfilled
prior to approval of a PUD application.
         (a)   Pre-application conference. The applicant shall meet with the
staff to determine the feasibility of the project.
         (b)   Application and site plan submittal. The applicant should
furnish all information required in this section and comply with all the
standards set forth in this section. (See division (G)(3) below.)
         (c)   Site plan review. This is an in-house staff function. (See
division (G)(4) below.)
         (d)   Planning Commission action. The Planning Commission will either:
            1.   Grant approval, which means the developer may proceed with the
project;
            2.   Postpone action, which means action is delayed for reasons
which shall be noted by the Commission; or
            3.   Deny approval, which means denial of approval for the
submitted PUD. Before any further action is taken, the developer must review
his or her plan to conform to the Commission’s recommendations.
      (2)   Special use permit.
         (a)   Upon approval by the Planning Commission, the applicant will be
issued a special use permit. The special use permit may contain conditions
which the applicant must represent on his or her plat before a building permit
is issued by the Zoning Inspector. A special use permit shall be revoked upon
change in conditions upon which special use permit was issued.
         (b)   The special use permit shall be filed with the approved plat at
the County Court Clerk’s office. Filing is the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   Application for PUD. The application, which can be obtained at City
Hall, along with a filing fee, amount set by City Council, shall be submitted
along with the plat.
      (4)   Administrative review. Upon a receipt of an application, a filing
fee and a plat, the staff shall review the plat for compliance with this
chapter. Within 45 days after the filing of the application, the Planning
Commission shall take action. After the site plan review by the staff, staff
findings and recommendations shall be transmitted to the applicant and Planning
Commission.
      (5)   Failure to begin construction. If no construction has begun or no
use established in the planned unit development within two years from the date
of approval of the development plan, the special use permit will lapse and have
no further effect. CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined to include the placing of
construction materials in a permanent position and fastening them in a
permanent manner. In its discretion and for good cause, the Planning Commission
may extend for one or more additional years the period for the initiation of
construction of the establishment of a use.
      (6)   Amendment or withdrawal of special use permit. Pursuant to the same
procedure and subject to the same limitations and requirements by which the
special use permit was approved and registered, any special use permit may be
amended or withdrawn, either partially or completely, if all the conditions and
limitations of the special use permit and all land and structures withdrawn
from the special use permit comply with all regulations established by this
chapter and unrelated to the special use permit.
      (7)   Waivers. An applicant citing the design or other exceptional
characteristics of the proposed development may request the Planning Commission
to waive certain requirements for special use permit. The Planning Commission
may permit submission of an application for review in accordance with
procedures set out in this section. In permitting waivers, the Planning
Commission must find that the application fully meets the intent of this
section and of this chapter.
      (8)   Appeal.
         (a)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Planning Commission in
approving or disapproving an application for planned unit development may,
within 15 days from the date of the decision, file a written request with the
City Council which shall proceed to review the decision. Any such review shall
be conducted pursuant to the same procedure as required for approval in this
section.
         (b)   If the City Council, subsequent to its review, agrees with the
Planning Commission’s action, it shall do so by municipal order. If the City
Council disagrees with the Planning Commission’s action, it shall adopt a
municipal order directing the Planning Commission to alter its action in
accordance with its directions and conditions.
         (c)   If the Planning Commission fails to comply with the Council’s
order at its next regularly scheduled meeting, the alterations specified in the
municipal order shall become effective upon the adjournment of the meeting.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.058 B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The Neighborhood Business District is intended
to permit, retain and service uses which are to serve nearby residential areas.
Uses which would create hazards, offensive and loud noises, vibration, smoke,
glare, heavy truck traffic or late hours are prohibited.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Any use listed as permissible in Appendix A, Schedule
of Uses, attached to the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted
by reference in §
153.272, is permitted.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Any use listed as conditional in Appendix A,
Schedule of Uses, attached to the ordinance from which this chapter is derived,
adopted by reference in §
153.272, is permitted.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   Building site area. Each lot shall have an area not less than 7,000
square feet.
      (2)   Building site width. The minimum building site width at the
building setback line shall be 50 feet.
      (3)   Building site coverage. The total lot coverage for all buildings on
the site shall not exceed 55% of the lot area.
      (4)   Building height limit. The maximum building height shall not exceed
two stories or 35 feet in height.
      (5)   Setback requirements. The minimum requirements for yards shall be
as follows:
         (a)   Front yard: one-half the width of the right-of-way of the street
the building fronts; the yard shall be a minimum of 25 feet and shall not be
required to exceed 40 feet;
         (b)   Rear yard: 15 feet; and
         (c)   Side yard: ten feet.
   (E)   General requirements.
      (1)   There shall be no outdoor storage of merchandise or materials and
no outdoor processing in any commercial district unless authorized as a
conditional use.
      (2)   All commercial districts located on lots adjacent to residentially
zoned districts shall maintain a minimum setback of 20 feet on the side
adjacent to the residential district. The side shall also be adequately
buffered as regulated in §§
153.170 through
153.188.
      (3)   All sign and outdoor advertising displays are subject to the
provisions established in §§
153.130 through
153.139.
      (4)   All parking and off-street loading are subject to the provisions
established in §§
153.115 through
153.118.
      (5)   New dwelling structures which are permitted within commercial
districts shall conform to the lot size and density standards as set forth in
the R-4 (Multi-Family Residential) District.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.059 B-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The General Business District is intended to
permit a wider range of business and entertainment activities than are normally
permitted in the Neighborhood District. The permitted uses would serve not only
nearby residential areas, but also areas further away by types of business and
services usually found in major shopping centers. These uses would generate
larger volumes of vehicular traffic, would need more off-street parking and
loading and would require more planning to integrate the districts with
adjacent residential areas.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Any use listed as permissible in Appendix A, Schedule
of Uses, attached to the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted
by reference in §
153.272, is permitted.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Any use listed as conditional in Appendix A,
Schedule of Uses, attached to the ordinance from which this chapter is derived,
adopted by reference in §
153.272, is permitted as a conditional use.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   Building site area. There is no minimum required building site
area.
      (2)   Building site width. There is no minimum required building site
width.
      (3)   Building site coverage. The maximum building site coverage by all
buildings on the site shall not exceed 55% of the total lot area.
      (4)   Building height limit. No structure shall exceed 50 feet in height.
      (5)   Setback requirements. The minimum requirements for yards shall be
as follows:
         (a)   Front yard: 40 feet;
            (b)   Rear yard: 20 feet; and
         (c)   Side yard: seven feet.
   (E)   General requirements. All general requirements that are in effect in
the B-1 Neighborhood Business District are applicable.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.060 B-3 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The district, with complementary office and
related uses, forms the center for commercial, financial, professional,
governmental and cultural activities. These regulations are intended to protect
and upgrade the Central Business District for the performance of its primary
functions. Pedestrian oriented uses are encouraged.
   (B)   Permitted uses. See Appendix A, Schedule of Uses, attached to the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272.
   (C)   Conditional uses. See Appendix A, Schedule of Uses, attached to the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   Building site area. There is no minimum required building site
area.
      (2)   Building site width. There is no minimum required building site
width.
      (3)   Building site coverage. There is no limit.
      (4)   Building height limit. No structure shall exceed 70 feet.
      (5)   Setback requirements. The minimum requirements for yards shall be
as follows:
         (a)   Front yard: no front yard requirement;
         (b)   Rear yard: 25 feet for the back of the building adjoining a
residential zone. Otherwise, no rear yard is required; and
         (c)   Side yard: five feet for a side abutting a residential district
which is existing. Otherwise, no side yard is required.
   (E)   General requirements.
      (1)   All new buildings and structures shall comply with off-street
parking, loading and unloading provisions as required in §§
153.115 through
153.118. In cases where no structural enlargement occurs, a change of use for
an existing structure or building in a B-3 District shall not require
compliance with §
153.115, provided that existing parking is not reduced; however, all
structures, both new and existing, are subject to the requirements of §§
153.116 through
153.118.
      (2)   New dwelling structures which are permitted in the B-3 Central
Business District shall conform to the standards set forth in the R-4 Multi-
Family Residential District.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.061 B-4 ARTERIAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The district is intended to provide areas in
which the principal use of land is devoted to commercial establishments which
cater specifically to motor vehicle oriented trade. It is also intended to
provide appropriate space, adequate parking, sufficient depth from the street,
controlled access points and orderly and concentrated development.
   (B)   Permitted uses. See Appendix A, Schedule of Uses, attached to the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272.
   (C)   Conditional uses. See Appendix A, Schedule of Uses, attached to the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   Building site area. There is no minimum required building site
area.
      (2)   Building site width. There is no minimum required building site
width.
      (3)   Building site coverage. The maximum building site coverage by all
buildings shall not exceed 55% of the total lot area.
      (4)   Building height limit. No structure shall exceed 50 feet in height.
      (5)   Setback requirements. Setback requirements for yards shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Front yard: 40 feet;
         (b)   Rear yard: 20 feet; and
         (c)   Side yard: seven feet.
   (E)   General requirements.
      (1)   Applicable requirements. All general requirements that are in
effect in the B-1 Neighborhood Business District are applicable.
      (2)   Plans. Plans for building construction, parking area, yards,
driveways, entrances and exits shall be approved by the appropriate
administrative offices, in consultation with the Planning Commission, and they
may require any changes therein deemed necessary or desirable to ensure safety,
to minimize traffic difficulty and to safeguard adjacent properties.
      (3)   Traffic circulation.
         (a)   Points of vehicular ingress and egress to the site shall be
limited to the adjacent major or minor arterial only and site plans shall be
reviewed by the Planning Commission for location and design of curb cuts and
driveways and for layout of parking lots.
         (b)   The minimum width of driveways at the property lines shall be 24
feet.
         (c)   The minimum distance of any driveway to property line shall be
seven feet.
         (d)   The minimum distance between driveways on the site and driveways
between adjacent sites shall be 65 feet. In such cases where that distance
cannot be met, such as lot width, existing driveways or the like, a variance
can be granted based upon sound traffic circulation principals.
         (e)   The minimum distance a driveway into a site shall be from a
street intersection shall be 30 feet measured from the intersection of the
street right-of-way to the nearest end of the curb radius.
      (4)   Parking and landscaping. The entire parking area shall be paved
with a permanent surface of concrete, asphaltic cement, cobblestone, brick or
grid paving and shall be graded and drained so as to dispose of all surface
water without erosion, flooding and other inconveniences. Any unpaved area
shall be landscaped with lawn or other acceptable landscaping materials,
maintained in a neat and orderly fashion at all times, and as required in §§
153.170 through
153.188.
      (5)   Lighting. Exterior lighting proposed for use on the site shall be
planned, erected and maintained so light is confined to the property and will
not cast direct light or glare upon adjacent properties or public rights-of-
way. The light source shall not be visible from adjacent properties or public
rights-of-way.
      (6)   Buffering.
         (a)   A permanent landscaped buffer of evergreen plant material or
solid wall or fence or other suitable enclosure is required when commercial
land abuts a residential district, as required in §§
153.170 through
153.188.
         (b)   All open storage of merchandise, material and equipment shall be
screened by adequate ornamental fencing or evergreen planting at the side or
rear of the lot abutting a residence district on which the open storage or
display occurs; provided, however, that, maximum screening shall be eight feet
in height.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.062 I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The intent of this district is to permit certain
industries which are of a light manufacturing character to locate in acceptable
areas in the city. So that such uses may be integrated with other land uses,
such as commercial and residential areas, limitations are placed upon the
degree of noise, smoke, glare, waste and other features of industrial
operations which may cause adverse effects. It is further intended that these
light industrial uses act as a transition between heavier industrial uses and
nonindustrial uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Any use listed as permissible in Appendix A, Schedule
of Uses, attached to the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted
by reference in §
153.272, is permitted.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Any use listed as conditional in Appendix A,
Schedule of Uses, attached to the ordinance from which this chapter is derived,
adopted by reference in §
153.272, is a conditional use.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   Building site area. There is no minimum building site area.
      (2)   Building site width. There is no minimum building site width.
      (3)   Building site coverage. The maximum building site coverage by all
buildings shall be 60% of the total lot area.
      (4)   Building height limit. No structure shall exceed 60 feet in height.
      (5)   Setback requirements. Setback requirements for yards shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Front yard: one half the width of the right-of-way of the street
the building fronts, the yard shall be a minimum of 25 feet and shall not be
required to exceed 40 feet;
         (b)   Rear yard: ten feet shall be provided unless the District abuts
a residential district, then the rear yard shall be 25 feet not including
loading and docking facilities; and
         (c)   Side yard: ten feet on each side shall be provided unless the
District abuts a residential district, then the side yard shall be 20 feet, not
including loading and docking facilities.
   (E)   General requirements.
      (1)   Signs. All signs and outdoor advertising displays are subject to
the provisions established in §§
153.130 through
153.139.
      (2)   Parking and loading. All parking and loading is subject to the
provisions established in §§
153.115 through
153.118.
      (3)   Plans. Plans for building construction, parking area, yards,
driveways, entrances and exits shall be approved by the appropriate
administrative officer, in consultation with the Planning Commission, and they
may require changes therein deemed necessary or desirable to ensure safety, to
minimize traffic difficulty and to safeguard adjacent properties.
      (4)   Lighting. Exterior lighting proposed for use on this site shall be
planned, erected and maintained so light is confined to the property and will
not cast direct light or glare upon adjacent properties or public rights-of-
way.
      (5)   Buffering.
         (a)   A permanent landscape buffer of evergreen plant material or
solid wall or fence or other suitable enclosure is required when industrial
land abuts a residential district.
         (b)   All open storage of merchandise, material and equipment shall be
screened by adequate ornamental fencing or evergreen planting at the side and
rear of the lot abutting a residence district on which said open space or
display occurs; provided, the maximum screening required shall be eight feet in
height.
   (F)   Special provisions for residential structures in I-1 Districts.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Appendix A (Schedule of Uses), attached to
the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272 and §§
153.080 and
153.082, excluding §
153.082(D), a single-family residential structure, existing as of the passage
of these regulations, on any lot containing less than 10,000 square feet, may
be considered a use allowed by right in an I-1 District. The construction or
reconstruction of a single-family residential dwelling and any addition or
accessory structures appurtenant to a single-family residence may be permitted
subject to conformance with all applicable setbacks and lot coverage
requirements. This provision shall not apply to any property which was a vacant
lot as of the passage of these regulations, property containing 10,000 square
feet or greater, or property which has been converted to nonresidential uses
before or after the passage of these regulations. Any applicant requesting a
permit under this provision must demonstrate applicability and conformance with
this provision.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.063 I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. This district is composed of land and structures
occupied by or suitable for heavy manufacturing and related activities. Located
for convenient access to present and future arterial thoroughfares, highways
and railway lines, these districts are usually separated from residential areas
by business districts or natural barriers; the district regulations are
designed to permit the development of the districts for almost any industrial
use.
   (B)   Permitted use. Any use listed as permissible in Appendix A, Schedule
of Uses, attached to the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted
by reference in §
153.272, is permitted.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Any use listed as conditional in Appendix A,
Schedule of Uses, attached to the ordinance from which this chapter is derived,
adopted by reference in §
153.272, is conditional.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   Building site area. There is no minimum building site area.
      (2)   Building site width. There is no minimum building site width.
      (3)   Building site coverage. The maximum building site coverage by all
buildings shall be 60% of the total area.
      (4)   Building height limit. No structure shall exceed 60 feet in height.
      (5)   Setback requirements. The minimum requirements for yards shall be
as follows:
         (a)   Front yard: 40 feet;
         (b)   Rear yard: ten feet shall be provided unless the District abuts
a residential district, then the rear yard shall be 25 feet not including
loading and docking facilities; and
         (c)   Side yard: ten feet each side shall be provided unless the
district abuts a residential district, then the side yard shall be 20 feet not
including loading and docking facilities.
   (E)   General requirements. Those requirements listed in the I-1 Light
Industrial District shall apply.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.064 P-1 PROFESSIONAL AND OFFICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The intent of the Professional and Office
District is to permit areas containing a mixture of light commercial and
professional uses, and a mixture of residential, public and semi-public uses.
The regulations are designed to protect and encourage the transitional
character of the districts by limiting the permitted uses to those of a
commercial and professional service nature and to permit residential dwelling
uses as a desirable mix in a transitional district.
   (B)   Permitted uses. See Schedule of Uses, Appendix A, attached to the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272.
   (C)   Conditional uses. See Schedule of Uses, Appendix A, attached to the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   Building site area. The minimum building site area shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Single-family detached: 6,000 square feet per unit;
         (b)   Two-family (duplex): 8,000 square feet per two units;
         (c)   Multi-family: 2,170 square feet per three units or more; and
         (d)   For other permitted uses: 8,000 square feet.
      (2)   Building site width. The minimum lot width at the building setback
line shall be as follows:
         (a)   Single-family detached: 50 feet;
         (b)   Two-family (duplex): 50 feet;
         (c)   Multi-family: 60 feet; and
         (d)   For other permitted uses: 60 feet.
      (3)   Building site coverage. The maximum building coverage by all
buildings shall not exceed 45%.
      (4)   Building height limit. No structure shall exceed 35 feet in height.
      (5)   Setback requirements. The minimum yard requirements shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Front yard: 25 feet;
         (b)   Rear yard: 15 feet; and
         (c)   Side yard: five feet.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 153.075 INTENT.
   (A)   Within the districts established by this chapter or amendments that
may later be adopted there exist:
      (1)   Nonconforming lots;
      (2)   Nonconforming structures;
      (3)   Nonconforming uses of land;
      (4)   Nonconforming uses of land and structures in combination; and
   (5)   Nonconforming characteristics of use.
   (B)   There are such nonconformities which were lawful before this chapter
was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted
under the terms of this chapter or future amendments thereto. It is the intent
of this chapter to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are
removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent of this
chapter that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended,
nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses which are prohibited
elsewhere in the same district.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.076 INCOMPATIBILITY WITH PERMITTED USES.
   Nonconformities are declared by this chapter to be incompatible with
permitted uses in the districts in which the use is located. A nonconforming
use of a structure, a nonconforming use of land, or a nonconforming use of a
structure and land in combination shall not be extended or enlarged after the
adoption of these regulations, by attachment on a building or premises of
additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises, or by the addition
of other uses of a nature which would be generally prohibited in the district
in which the use is located.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.077 AVOIDANCE OF UNDUE HARDSHIP.
   (A)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
or development on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance and upon which actual
building construction has been carried on diligently.
   (B)   Where demolition or removal of an existing building has been
substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, the demolition or removal shall
be deemed to be actual construction, provided that the work shall be carried
out diligently. ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined as work done which is
beyond the preparation stage and into that stage where the changes or additions
are made permanent.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.078 SINGLE NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Such a lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous
frontage with other lots in the same ownership.
   (C)   This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the
requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the
district; provided that, yard dimensions and requirements, other than those
applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations
for the district in which the lot is located.
   (D)   Variances of requirements listed in §§
153.030 through
153.038, §§
153.050 through
153.064, §§
153.115 through
153.118, §§
153.130 through
153.139, §§
153.150 through 153.156 and §§ 153.170 through
153.188, other than lot area or lot width, shall be obtained only through
action of the Board of Zoning Adjustment as set forth in §§
153.260 through
153.271.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.079 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD IN COMBINATION.
   If two or more lots or a combination of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this chapter and if all or part of the lots with no buildings do
not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands
involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this
chapter and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which
diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this
chapter, nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with
an area or width below the requirements stated in this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.080 NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   Where, at the time of adoption of this chapter, lawful uses of land exist
which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this chapter, the
uses may be continued so long as they remain otherwise lawful; provided:
   (A)   No such nonconforming uses shall be enlarged or increased nor extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter;
   (B)   No such nonconforming uses shall be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such uses at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter;
   (C)   If any such nonconforming uses of land are discontinued or abandoned
for more than one year (except when government action impedes access to
premises), any subsequent use of the land shall conform to the regulations
specified by this chapter for the district in which the land is located; and
   (D)   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
chapter shall be erected in connection with the nonconforming use of land.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.081 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter that could not be built by reason of restrictions on
area, lot coverage, height, yards, its location on the lot, bulk or other
requirements concerning the structure, the structure may be continued so long
as it remains otherwise unlawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease its nonconformity.
   (B)   Should the nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of
structure be destroyed by any means, by more than 50%, it shall only be
reconstructed in conformity with conditions set forth by the Board of Zoning
Adjustment.
   (C)   Should the structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.082 NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES OR OF STRUCTURES AND LAND IN
COMBINATION.
   If a lawful use involving individual structures, or of a structure and land
in combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this
chapter, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
   (B)   A nonconforming use may be extended throughout any part of a building
which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of adoption
or amendment of this chapter, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any
land outside such building.
   (C)   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure or structure and land, may, upon appeal to the Board of Zoning
Adjustment, be changed to another nonconforming use provided that the Board of
Zoning Adjustment shall find that the proposed use is equally appropriate or
more appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming use. In
permitting such change, the Board of Zoning Adjustment may require appropriate
conditions and safeguards in accord with other provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter
be resumed.
   (E)   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and land in
combination is discontinued or abandoned for more than one year (except when
government action impedes access to the premises), the structure or structure
and land in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with
the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (F)   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and land in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.083 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
the official.
   (B)   If a nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful by reason of physical
condition, it shall not thereafter be restored, repaired or rebuilt except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.084 USES UNDER CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS ARE NOT NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any use which is permitted as a conditional use in a district under the
terms of this chapter (other than a change through the Board of Zoning
Adjustment’s action from a nonconforming use to another use not generally
permitted in the district) shall not be deemed a nonconforming use in the
district, but shall without further action be considered a conforming use.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 153.095 APPROVAL OF CONDITIONAL USE; PROCEDURE AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Conditional uses shall conform to the procedures and requirements of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.096 CONSIDERING CERTAIN USES INDIVIDUALLY.
   (A)   It is recognized that an increasing number of new kinds of uses are
appearing daily, and that many of these and some other more conventional uses
possess characteristics of a unique and special nature relative to location,
design, size, method of operation, circulation and public facilities that each
specific use must be considered individually.
   (B)   These specific uses as they are conditionally permitted under the
provisions of §§
153.050 through
153.064 or Appendix A, attached to the ordinance from which this chapter is
derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272, Official Schedule of Uses, shall follow the procedures and
requirements set forth.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.097 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT; CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a conditional use permit shall be filed with the
Chairperson of the Board of Zoning Adjustment by the owner of property for
which the conditional use is proposed.
   (B)   At a minimum, the application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
      (2)   Legal authorized signature of land owner;
      (3)   Legal description of property;
      (4)   Description of existing use;
      (5)   Zoning district;
      (6)   Description of proposed conditional use;
      (7)   A plan of the proposed site for the conditional use showing the
location of all buildings, parking and loading areas, traffic access and
traffic circulation, open space, landscaping, refuse and service areas,
utilities, signs, yards and such other information as the Board may require to
determine if the proposed conditional use meets the intent and requirements of
this chapter;
      (8)   A narrative statement evaluating the effects of such elements as
noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration on adjoining property; a discussion of
the general compatibility with adjacent and other properties in the district;
and the relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan; and
      (9)   Such other information as may be required in §
153.099.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.098 GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO CONDITIONAL USES.
   In addition to the specific requirements for conditionally permitted uses as
specified in §
153.099, the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall review the particular facts and
circumstances of each proposed use in terms of the following standards and
shall find adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location:
   (A)   Is in fact a conditional use as established under the provisions of §§
153.050 through
153.064 and appears on the Schedule of Uses in Appendix A, attached to the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272 for the zoning district involved;
   (B)   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives,
or with any specific objective of the city’s comprehensive plan and this
chapter;
   (C)   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that the use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
   (D)   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses;
   (E)   May be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools; or that the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide
adequately any such services;
   (F)   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
   (G)   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odors;
   (H)   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares; and
   (I)   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural,
scenic or historic feature of major importance.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.099 SPECIFIC CRITERIA.
   The following are examples of some specific requirements for conditionally
permitted uses as specified in the Schedule of Uses in Appendix A, attached to
the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272 that may be used in restricting such conditional uses:
   (A)   Ingress and egress to property and proposed structures thereon with
particular references to the safety and convenience of motorists and
pedestrians, traffic flow and control and access in case of fire or
catastrophe;
   (B)   Off-street parking and boarding areas where required with particular
attention to items mentioned in division (A) above, the economic effects,
noise, glare or odor caused by conditional use on adjoining properties and
properties generally in the district;
   (C)   Refuse and service areas, with particular reference to items mentioned
in divisions (A) and (B) above;
   (D)   Utilities, with reference to locations, availability and
compatibility;
   (E)   Screening and buffering of adjoining properties with reference to
type, dimensions and character;
   (F)   Signs, if any, and proposed exterior lighting with reference to glare,
traffic safety, economic effects and compatibility and harmony with properties
in the district;
   (G)   Required yard and other open space; and
   (H)   General compatibility with adjacent properties and other properties in
the district.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.100 SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS.
   (A)   In granting any conditional use, the Board of Zoning Adjustment may
prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this
chapter.
   (B)   Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms which the conditional use is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter and punishable under § 153.999.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.101 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   Upon receipt of the application for a conditional use permit, the Board of
Zoning Adjustment shall hold a public hearing, publish notice in a newspaper,
and give written notice to all parties in interest according to the procedures
specified in §§
153.269 and
153.270.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.102 ACTION BY BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the public hearing required, the Board of Zoning
Adjustment shall either approve, approve with supplementary conditions as
specified in §
153.100; or disapprove the application as presented.
   (B)   If the application is approved or approved with modification, the
Board shall direct the Zoning Inspector to issue a conditional use permit
listing the specific conditions specified by the Board for approval; if the
application is disapproved by the Board the applicant may seek relief through
the Circuit Court. Appeals from Board decisions shall be made in the manner
specified in §§
153.260 through
153.271.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.103 EXPIRATION OF CONDITIONAL USE.
   A conditional use permit shall be deemed to authorize only one particular
conditional use and the permit shall automatically expire if, for any reason,
the conditional use shall cease (to discontinue) for more than one year.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
OFF-STREET PARKING, STORAGE AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.115 PARKING SPACES REQUIRED; STANDARDS.
   (A)   In all districts, there shall be provided at such time any building or
structure is erected, enlarged or increased in capacity, off-street parking
spaces for automobiles in accordance with the following requirements:
Table of Parking Spaces Required
Uses Parking Spaces Required
Table of Parking Spaces Required
Uses                                                                        Parking Spaces
                                                                            Required
Assisted living facility                                                    One space per
                                                                            apartment unit
                                                                            One parking
                                                                            space for each
                                                                            two employees,
                                                                            plus one space
                                                                            for each
                                                                            10,000 square
Automobile wrecking yards, junk or salvage yards which sell new or used     feet of lot
merchandise to the public                                                   area or two
                                                                            spaces for
                                                                            each 1,000
                                                                            square feet of
                                                                            floor area,
                                                                            whichever is
                                                                            greater
                                                                            One per 300
                                                                            square feet of
                                                                            usable floor
Banks, business or professional offices                                     space, plus
                                                                            one per each
                                                                            three
                                                                            employees
                                                                            Two per barber
Barber or beauty shop                                                       or three per
                                                                            beautician
                                                                            One space for
                                                                            each three
                                                                            boarders not
                                                                            rooming on the
Boarding or rooming house, tourist home                                     premises; one
                                                                            for each two
                                                                            guests
                                                                            provided
                                                                            overnight
                                                                            accommodations
Bowling alleys                                                              Five per alley
                                                                            One per four
                                                                            seats; or one
                                                                            per 30 square
Churches                                                                    feet of usable
                                                                            floor area of
                                                                            auditorium,
                                                                            whichever is
                                                                            greater
                                                                            One per three
                                                                            patrons based
Commercial recreation uses                                                  on design
                                                                            capacity of
                                                                            the facility
                                                                            One per three
Commercial or trade schools                                                 students plus
                                                                            two per three
                                                                            employees
Country club                                                                One per five
                                                                            members
                                                                            One space per
                                                                            each two
                                                                            employees plus
Crisis counseling centers                                                   one space per
                                                                            three beds if
                                                                            overnight
                                                                            accommodations
                                                                            are provided
                                                                            One space per
                                                                            employee plus
                                                                            one space per
Detoxification facility                                                     three
                                                                            occupants at
                                                                            design
                                                                            capacity
                                                                            One and one-
Dwelling (single- and two-family)                                           half per
                                                                            dwelling unit
                                                                            One and one-
                                                                            half per one-
                                                                            bedroom
Dwelling (multiple-family)                                                  dwelling; two
                                                                            per two-
                                                                            bedroom
                                                                            dwelling
                                                                            One parking
                                                                            space for each
Gasoline service station                                                    employee, plus
                                                                            three for each
                                                                            service bay
                                                                            One per 300
                                                                            feet of usable
                                                                            floor area,
                                                                            plus one per
                                                                            each three
                                                                            employees.
Governmental office buildings                                               Every
                                                                            governmental
                                                                            vehicle shall
                                                                            be provided
                                                                            with a
                                                                            reserved off-
                                                                            street parking
                                                                            space
                                                                            One space per
Group homes, homeless shelters, domestic violence shelters, orphanages and  four beds plus
similar uses                                                                one space per
                                                                            employee
                                                                            One space for
                                                                            each four
                                                                            patient beds,
Homes for the aged, sanitariums, convalescent or nursing homes              plus one per
                                                                            staff doctor,
                                                                            plus one space
                                                                            for each three
                                                                            employees
                                                                            One per three
                                                                            patient beds
                                                                            exclusive of
                                                                            bassinets,
                                                                            plus one for
Hospitals                                                                   each staff
                                                                            doctor and one
                                                                            for each three
                                                                            employees on
                                                                            the maximum
                                                                            work shift
                                                                            One per two
                                                                            rooms or
Hotel                                                                       suite, plus
                                                                            two per three
                                                                            employees
                                                                            One for each
Library                                                                     400 square
                                                                            feet
                                                                            One space for
                                                                            each employee
Limousine and taxi service                                                  and one space
                                                                            per vehicle
                                                                            that provides
                                                                            service
                                                                            One per two
                                                                            employees on
                                                                            the maximum
Manufacturing or industrial establishment, public utility service building, work shift
research or testing laboratory, creamery, bottling plant, other wholesale   plus space to
warehouse or similar                                                        accommodate
                                                                            all trucks and
                                                                            vehicles used
                                                                            in connection
                                                                            therewith
                                                                            Three patient
                                                                            parking spaces
                                                                            per staff
                                                                            doctor, plus
Medical and dental clinics                                                  two spaces per
                                                                            three
                                                                            employees,
                                                                            plus one space
                                                                            per staff
                                                                            doctor
                                                                            Five spaces
                                                                            per parlor or
                                                                            chapel unit,
Mortuaries or funeral parlors                                               or one per
                                                                            four seats,
                                                                            whichever is
                                                                            greater
Motels and tourist courts                                                   One per guest
                                                                            bedroom
                                                                            One per three
                                                                            members or one
                                                                            for each 100
Private clubs, lodge or union hall                                          square feet of
                                                                            non-storage
                                                                            and non-
                                                                            service floor
                                                                            area
                                                                            One per three
                                                                            employees,
                                                                            plus one per
                                                                            300 square
                                                                            feet of usable
Restaurant, café or establishment serving beverages or refreshments        floor space,
                                                                            or one per
                                                                            three fixed
                                                                            seats,
                                                                            whichever is
                                                                            greater
                                                                            One per 300
                                                                            square feet of
Retail stores, personal service establishments and similar uses             floor area
                                                                            plus one for
                                                                            each two
                                                                            employees
                                                                            One space for
                                                                            each 600
Retail stores such as supermarkets, department stores, furniture and        square feet of
appliance stores, wholesale stores, motor vehicle sales or machinery sales  floor area
                                                                            plus one for
                                                                            each two
                                                                            employees
Schools shall be provided with parking spaces under the following schedule:  
                                                                            Two spaces per
                                                                            three
                                                                            employees plus
                                                                            one space for
                                                                            each five
                                                                            seats in the
                                                                            auditorium, or
                                                                            one space for
                                                                            each
                                                                            classroom,
                                                                            whichever is
                                                                            greater
                                                                             
                                                                            Two spaces per
• Elementary, junior high and the equivalent private or parochial         three teachers
                                                                           and other
                                                                           employees,
• Senior high or equivalent                                               plus one space
                                                                           per five seats
                                                                           in the
• Kindergartens, day care centers and the equivalent, private or parochialauditorium,
                                                                           whichever is
• Colleges and universities                                               greater
                                                                             
                                                                            Two parking
                                                                            spaces per
                                                                            attendant or
                                                                            teacher, plus
                                                                            one off-street
                                                                            loading space
                                                                            per six
                                                                            children
                                                                            enrolled
                                                                             
                                                                            One space per
                                                                            every five
                                                                            classroom
                                                                            seats
Stadiums and sports arenas or gymnasiums                                    One space per
                                                                            five seats
                                                                            One space per
Swimming pools                                                              30 square feet
                                                                            of water area
                                                                            One space for
                                                                            every two
                                                                            employees plus
Television and radio stations                                               one space for
                                                                            each vehicle
                                                                            operated by
                                                                            the use
                                                                            One space for
Theater, indoor                                                             every three
                                                                            seats
 
   (B)   In applying the standards set forth above, the following shall apply.
      (1)   Accessory uses are calculated using the formula applicable to the
principle use of the property and are considered inclusive of the total
required for the principle use of property. In the case of mixed or joint uses,
the parking spaces required shall equal the sum of the requirements of various
uses computed separately. In cases of mixed or joint uses or in cases as
provided in division (B)(6) below, parking facilities may be shared if multiple
uses cooperatively establish and operate parking facilities if these uses
generate parking demands at different times. (For example, if one use operates
during the evenings and weekends only and the other use operates during the
weekdays only.) The applicant shall have the burden of proof for a reduction in
the total number of required parking spaces, and shall provide documentation to
include covenants, deed restrictions or other agreements to ensure conformance
with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Where a fractional space results, any fraction less than one-half
may be dropped and any fraction of one-half or more shall be counted as one
parking space.
      (3)   These standards shall apply fully to all uses and buildings
established after the effective date of this chapter.
      (4)   Except for parcels of land devoted to one- and two-family uses, all
areas devoted to off-street parking shall be so designed and be of such size
that no vehicle is required to back into a public street to obtain egress.
      (5)   Where parking is to be provided in the front yard of a multiple-
family dwelling, there shall be established a setback line often feet. The area
between the setback line and front lot line shall be prepared and planted with
grass, shrubs or trees.
      (6)   All parking spaces required herein shall be located on the same lot
with the building or use served. However, when an increase in the number of
spaces is required by a change of use or enlargement of the building or where
the spaces are provided collectively or used jointly by two or more buildings
or establishments, the required spaces may be located and maintained not to
exceed 400 feet from any other nonresidential building served.
      (7)   No signs of any kind shall be erected except information signs used
to guide traffic and to state the conditions and terms of the use of the lot.
Only non-intermittent white lighting of signs shall be permitted.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.116 STORAGE AND PARKING OF TRAILERS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   Commercial vehicles, buses and trailers of all types, including travel,
boat, camping and hauling, shall not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by
a dwelling or on any lot in a residential district except in accordance with
the following provisions.
   (A)   Not more than one of the following commercial vehicle, bus or trailer
of any type including travel, boat, camping and hauling per dwelling unit on
the premises, shall be permitted. No commercial vehicle, bus or trailer of any
type, including travel, boat, camping or hauling used for hauling explosives,
gasoline or liquefied petroleum products or toxic chemicals shall be permitted.
   (B)   Commercial vehicles, buses and trailers of all types, including
travel, boat, camping and hauling (excluding hauling trailers exceeding 20 feet
in length, eight feet in height) are all permitted to be parked on the premises
for a period not to exceed more than 72 hours unless it is located behind the
front building line. No commercial vehicle, or trailer of any type including
travel, boat, camping or hauling which is occupied permanently or temporarily
while it is parked or stored shall be permitted except in a mobile home park as
authorized by this chapter or other ordinances.
   (C)   Commercial vehicles, buses and trailers of all types, including
travel, boat, camping and hauling shall not be parked or stored on a public
right-of-way in a residentially zoned district.
   (D)   Commercial vehicles are defined for the purposes of this section as
any vehicle with a rated capacity over two and one-half tons or a tractor and
trailer.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.117 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   The following rules and regulations shall apply to off-street loading and
unloading facilities.
   (A)   A building whose dominant use is handling and selling goods at retail
shall provide one off-street loading and unloading space for buildings
containing up to and including 10,000 square feet of floor area, plus one
additional space for each additional 10,000 square feet of gross floor space.
   (B)   Manufacturing, repair, wholesale and similar uses shall provide one
off-street loading and unloading space for buildings containing 10,000 square
feet of floor space plus one space for each 40,000 square feet of floor area in
the excess of 10,000 square feet.
   (C)   Where trailer trucks are involved, the loading and unloading space
shall be an area 12 by 50 feet with a 14-foot height clearance and shall be
designed with appropriate means of truck access to a street or alley, as well
as having adequate maneuvering area.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.118 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   Except for one- and two-family dwellings, off-street parking and truck
loading facilities shall be constructed, maintained and operated in accordance
with the following specifications.
   (A)   Drainage and surfacing. The facility shall be properly graded for
drainage, surfaced with concrete, asphaltic concrete or asphalt, and maintained
in proper condition, free of weeds, dust, trash and debris. If, on the
effective date of this chapter, there exist lots on which the parking
facilities are not required to be surfaced, but they shall be maintained in
proper condition as noted above.
   (B)   Lighting. If the facility contains ten or more cars, lighting shall be
provided and maintained during the operation of the facility, and shall be so
arranged that the source of light does not shine directly into adjacent
residential properties or into traffic on adjoining streets.
   (C)   Screening and buffering. A parking facility abutting or adjacent to
residential uses is subject to screening and buffering as set forth in §§
153.170 through
153.188.
   (D)   Prohibition of other uses. Required off-street parking areas shall not
be used for the sale, repair, dismantling or servicing of any vehicle
(excluding personally-owned vehicles), equipment, materials or supplies.
   (E)   Multiple-level parking facilities. Parking facilities on more than one
level shall be designed in accordance with the standards set forth herein for
grade level parking facilities insofar as they are reasonably applicable. The
design of the multiple-level facilities shall be subject to the approval of the
Planning Commission with respect to layout, circulation, accommodations for
pedestrians and ingress and egress affecting safety and convenience.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
SIGNS AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING DISPLAYS
§ 153.130 PERMITTED UPON COMPLIANCE.
   Signs and outdoor advertising displays shall be permitted in districts
subject to the provisions and regulations contained in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.131 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN.  A sign conveying directions to premises other than the
premises on which the sign is located. Directional signs shall not exceed 16
square feet in area and may be either illuminated or non-illuminated, except
where illumination is otherwise specifically prohibited in this chapter.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING DISPLAY. Any advertising display, whether affixed to
land or improvement thereof, and which is not an accessory use to the premises
upon which it is located, and which may be either illuminated or non-
illuminated, except where illumination is otherwise specifically prohibited in
this chapter.
   PENNANTS AND SPECIAL EVENTS SIGNS. Signs or advertising displays or pennants
which relates specifically to a scheduled special event. All such signs or
pennants shall be removed within five calendar days from the final day of the
event. SPECIAL EVENTS shall be defined as not to exceed 30 days.
   SIGNS. Any advertising display affixed to land or improvements thereon,
which it is located and which may be either illuminated or non-illuminated,
except where illumination is otherwise specifically prohibited in this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.132 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A building/zoning permit shall be required for all signs and outdoor
advertising displays, to assure their proper placement, erection and securing,
except pennants and special events signs.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.133 LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Signs. No sign shall be erected or placed nearer to any street right-
of-way upon which said display faces than the building lines provided in zones
where the use is permitted, except one sign advertising the primary nature of
the business or industry conducted on the premises may be placed not closer
than ten feet to the street right-of-way line, but in no case shall the sign be
permitted to obstruct the view of traffic. If the use is on a corner lot, two
signs are allowed, one on each street. However, in the Central Business
District where buildings may be built up to the street right-of-way line,
overhanging and projecting signs shall be permitted; provided, that no
projecting signs shall project from the face of the building or structure over
a street, alley or other public space, and in no case shall any such sign
project beyond a line drawn perpendicularly upward from the curb line. A clear
space of not less than 12 feet shall be provided below all parts of such signs.
Projecting signs shall be securely attached to the building or structure.
   (B)   Outdoor advertising displays. Outdoor advertising displays shall be
permitted only in Arterial Commercial Districts B-4 and General Business
Districts B-2. All outdoor advertising displays shall be placed not closer than
ten feet from any street right-of-way line upon which said display faces. The
total number of outdoor advertising displays commonly supported shall be
considered as one display.
   (C)   Directional sign. Directional signs shall be permitted in commercial,
industrial and multi-family districts only. The signs shall not be placed
closer than five feet to any street right-of-way line nor shall they be
permitted to obstruct the flow or view of traffic.
   (D)   Pennants and special events signs. Pennants and special events signs
are allowed in commercial districts and shall not be permitted to obstruct the
view or flow of traffic.
   (E)   Residential signs/outdoor advertising displays.
      (1)   No sign or outdoor advertising shall be erected or placed in a
residential zone, unless provided for a conditional use permit for home
occupation, or for permanent identification for multi-family dwellings, R-4 and
R-5, or for permanent identification of a subdivision. There shall be one
permitted sign for each afore-mentioned use not exceeding 12 feet in area. The
signs can be illuminated, but non-flashing. A free-standing sign shall not
exceed a height of six feet above the ground.
      (2)   Each conditional use for a sign shall be determined on a case-by-
case basis depending on the compatibility to surrounding neighborhoods.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.134 LIMITATIONS ON NUMBER OF SIGNS.
   There shall be one free-standing sign or outdoor advertising display per lot
and one attached sign or outdoor advertising display per building use.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.135 SIZES; COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   A free-standing sign or outdoor advertising display shall not exceed
300 square feet in a commercial or industrial zone.
   (B)   A sign or outdoor advertising display shall not exceed 40% of the
facade or wall to which the sign or outdoor advertising display is attached.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.136 LIGHTING.
   Signs and outdoor advertising displays which involve lighting or motion
resembling traffic or directional signals, warnings, such as “stop” or “danger”
or any other signal signs which are normally associated with highway safety or
regulations are prohibited. Additionally, no sign or outdoor advertising
display device constituting a nuisance because of light, glare, focus,
animation, flashing or any illuminated signs of an intensity of illumination as
to unduly disturb the use of residential property or vehicular traffic shall be
erected or continue in operation.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.137 MAINTENANCE.
   Signs and outdoor advertising displays shall be maintained. The maintenance
shall include proper alignment of the structure, continued readability of the
structure and preservation of the structure with paint or other preservatives.
If a sign or outdoor advertising display is not maintained, written notice of
any disrepair shall be issued by the enforcement officer to the owner of the
structure. If the disrepair is not corrected within 60 days of issuance of the
notice, the structure shall be removed at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.138 HEIGHT; COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL.
   The height of any sign or outdoor advertising display shall not exceed the
height of 50 feet for any sign or outdoor advertising device in a commercial or
industrial zone, excluding B-1 and P-1 zones. In such districts, the height
limit for any sign shall not exceed 35 feet.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.139 BILLBOARDS; COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL.
   (A) Billboards are allowed only in commercial zones specifically defined as
B-2, B-3 and B-4 not including P-1 and B-1, and industrial zones, only by a
conditional use permit granted by the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
   (B)   The billboard will be considered a sign or outdoor advertising display
for the purposes of this chapter.
   (C)   The size of the billboard shall not exceed 400 square feet. The height
of the billboard shall not exceed 50 feet.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
HOME OCCUPATIONS
§ 153.150 PURPOSE.
   The standards for home occupations are intended to ensure compatibility with
permitted residential uses and with the character of the neighborhood, plus a
clearly established secondary or incidental status in relation to the
residential uses of the main buildings as the criteria for determining whether
a proposed accessory use qualifies as a home occupation.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.151 CERTAIN HOME OCCUPATIONS NOT PERMITTED.
   The following home occupations are not permitted:
   (A)   Antique shop;
   (B)   Funeral chapel or funeral home;
   (C)   Gift shop;
   (D)   Renting of trailers;
   (E)   Restaurant;
   (F)   Stable or kennel;
   (G)   Tourist home;
   (H)   Veterinary clinic or hospital; and
   (I)   Flea markets or perpetual/permanent yard sales.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.152 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   In addition to the limitation applicable in the zoning district in which
located, all home occupations shall be subject to the following use
limitations.
   (A)   A home occupation must be conducted within a dwelling which is the
bona fide residence of the principal practitioner, or in an accessory building
thereto which is normally associated with a residential use.
   (B)   Except for articles produced on the premises, no stock in trade shall
be displayed or sold on the premises.
   (C)   No alteration to the exterior of the principal residential building
shall be made which changes the character thereof as a dwelling.
   (D)   No outdoor display of goods or outside storage of equipment or
materials used in the home occupation shall be permitted.
   (E)   No more than two persons who are other than members of the immediate
family occupying such a dwelling shall be employed.
   (F)   No more than two rooms or 25% of the gross area of one floor of the
residence, whichever is less, shall be used for such purposes.
   (G)   No use shall create noise, dust, vibration, smell, smoke, glare,
electrical interference, fire hazard or any other hazard or nuisance to any
greater or more frequent extent than that usually experienced in an average
residential occupancy in the district in question under normal circumstances
wherein no home occupation exists.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.153 ISSUANCE OF A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   The issuance of a conditional use permit for a home occupation shall conform
to the procedures as outlined in §§
153.260 through
153.271.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.154 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT NOT REQUIRED UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS.
   A conditional use permit will not be required for a home occupation if all
of the following conditions are met.
   (A)   No on-site customers or customers coming to the home occupation will
be allowed. Any customer traffic to the site will require a conditional use
permit.
   (B)   No outside alterations, modification or change to the existing
structure will be allowed. Any minor alteration, modification or change being
made will require a conditional use permit.
   (C)   No employees other than the resident of the home will be allowed. Any
individual which lives or resides at another location, other than the proposed
location of the home occupation to be employed at the home occupation will
require a conditional use permit.
   (D)   No manufacturing, construction or finishing work will be allowed on-
site, any of these activities undertaken at the proposed home occupation will
require a conditional use permit.
   (E)   No outdoor signs are allowed on-site. Any proposed outdoor signs for
the home occupation will require a conditional use permit.
   (F)   No additional traffic as a result of the home occupation will be
allowed to the site. Additional traffic as a result of the home occupation will
require a conditional use permit.
   (G)   No on-site storage of merchandise, inventory, goods or services will
be allowed. Any of these activities undertaken at the proposed home occupation
will require a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.155 HOME OCCUPATION AFFIDAVIT.
   (A)   Property owners requesting a home occupation will submit a written
affidavit setting forth the operational conditions for the home occupation as
outlined in §
153.154.
   (B)   The code enforcement office will determine from the affidavit whether
the conditions in §
153.154 are met and if the proposed home occupation will require a conditional
use permit.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.156 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any determination that the property owner has deviated in the operation of
the home occupation will result in a violation of this subchapter and require
the property owner to cease the operation of the home occupation until a
conditional use permit is obtained.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
BUFFERING AND LANDSCAPING
§ 153.170 PURPOSE.
   The intent of this subchapter is to improve the appearance of properties,
vehicular use areas (VUAs), and property abutting public right of ways; to
provide standards for buffering between non-compatible land uses, and to
protect, preserve and promote aesthetic appeal of properties, character and
value of the surrounding neighborhoods; to promote public health and safety
through the reduction of noise pollution and air pollution.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.171 SITES AFFECTED.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to all developments subject to site plan
review, multi-family structures, developments using the planned unit
development (PUD) or zero lot line (ZLL) provisions found in this chapter, and
industrial or commercial developments with the exception of one and two-family
developments not classified as a planned unit development (PUD) or zero lot
line (ZLL). The requirements stated in this section shall be addressed during
the applicable site plan review process.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply to:
      (1)   New sites currently undeveloped. No new site development, building
or structure shall be constructed or vehicular use area created unless
landscaping is provided as required by the provisions of this section;
      (2)   Existing sites currently developed:
         (a)   Improvements to an existing site that include building additions
and/or vehicular use area expansions of less than 35% of the existing site
shall not be required to provide landscaping in accordance with this section;
         (b)   Improvements to an existing site that include building additions
and/or vehicular use area expansions of greater than 35% but less than 50% of
the existing site shall be required to bring only the new improvements into
compliance with the requirements of this section; and
         (c)   Improvements to an existing site that include building additions
and/or vehicular use area expansions of greater than 50% of the existing site
shall be required to bring the entire site into compliance with the
requirements of this section.
      (3)   All uses in the Central Business (CB) District, except parking lots
and vehicular use areas, shall be exempt from the landscaping provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.172 LANDSCAPE STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All landscaping materials shall be installed in a sound manner and
according to accepted good construction and planting procedures. Any landscape
material, which fails to meet the minimum requirements of this chapter at the
time of installation, shall be removed and replaced with acceptable materials.
A list of suggested and undesirable plant material is available in §§
153.187 and
153.188, respectively.
   (B)   The city is located within the Plant Hardiness Zone 6b.
   (C)   Existing landscape features shall be preserved where possible or
feasible. Existing landscape features which are preserved may be used to
fulfill the landscape requirements. The landscape elements to be preserved must
be illustrated on the landscape plan and approved by the Zoning Inspector.
   (D)   Surfaces denuded of vegetation shall be seeded or sodded to prevent
soil erosion.
   (E)   Landscape materials placed near street intersections shall meet the
following requirements.
      (1)   Obstruction of vision at street intersections is prohibited.
Additionally, lots adjacent to an intersection shall not obstruct vision of the
intersection within the 30-foot sight triangle. The 30-foot sight triangle is
defined as a triangle consisting of the edge of street pavements intersecting
at a point forming the outer boundaries of the lot and an imaginary line drawn
30 feet from the point of intersection in either direction. No obstruction to
vision between a height of two and one-half feet and 12 feet above the
imaginary plane defined by those three points of intersection are permitted.
      (2)   No structure, wall, fence, shrubbery or trees shall be erected,
maintained or planted on any lot which will obstruct the view of the driver of
a vehicle approaching an intersection, except that shade trees will be
permitted where all branches are not less than eight feet above street level.
The minimum sight distances which shall be maintained for intersections are as
follows.
 
Street         Low Density Medium Density High Density Nonresidential
Local          200'        200'           200'         250'
Minor arterial 200'        200'           240'         250'
Major arterial 275'        275'           300'         300'
 
      (3)   No obstruction shall be placed in the right-of-way.
   (F)   The person in charge of or in control of the property whether as
owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise shall be responsible for the
continued proper maintenance of all landscaping materials and shall keep them
in a proper, neat and orderly appearance free from refuse, debris, noxious
weeds and unwanted grass at all times. All unhealthy or dead plant material
shall be replaced within four months or by the next planting season, whichever
comes first; while other defective landscape material shall be replaced or
repaired within two months. All plant material shall be maintained according to
accepted horticultural practices.
   (G)   All shade trees shall be a minimum of two inches caliper; ornamental
trees shall be one-inch caliper; evergreen trees shall be five feet tall, when
planted. Tree type shall be approved by the Zoning Inspector.
   (H)   Only a small tree that reaches a mature height no greater than 25 feet
may be planted within 20 lateral feet of overhead utility lines.
   (I)   Soil in tree, shrub or plant zones (defined as twice the diameter of
the rootball) must be free of asphalt, construction and trash material. Soil
must be at least 50% desirable planting topsoil or media thoroughly mixed with
existing soil. If previously undisturbed natural topsoil is available, no
amendments are necessary. Subsoil is not acceptable for planting.
   (J)   Staking is not required on any trees. Any tree needing staking due to
species, size, site conditions, or maintenance problems shall have a fabric/
belting type material used for tying (ex. Arbor tie). No wire is allowed on any
tree. Stakes shall be wooden, driven at least one-third of total length into
undisturbed soil or compacted fill. Stakes and all tying material shall be
removed by end of one year.
   (K)   Plastic or other impervious materials shall not be used in landscaped
areas as weed control barriers.
   (L)   Mulch shall be applied to all non-turf, landscaped areas at planting.
      (1)   Mulch is not required on groundcover after it becomes fully
established.
      (2)   The desirable recommendation for mulch is composed wood chips, pine
bark, pine straw and shredded hardwood bark.
      (3)   Mulch shall be applied and maintained at two to four inches deep
and with no more than one inch touching any part of the plant. Other organic
and non-organic materials may be used as long as they are pervious to air and
water. Crushed limestone is not acceptable.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.173 PROPERTY PERIMETER REQUIREMENTS AND VEHICULAR USE AREAS.
   (A)   A landscape easement shall be required as a buffer between non-
compatible zones and between non-compatible land uses. The easement shall be
located between the structure and all common boundaries except street frontage,
unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   A minimum landscape easement with an average often feet with a minimum
of five feet shall be provided in the required side yard of structures. The
landscape materials shall include a combination of grass, low ground cover,
shrubs and/or trees.
   (C)   VEHICULAR USE AREA (VUA), for the purposes of this section, refers to
any area occupied in whole or in part by motorized vehicles, including, but not
limited to, parking lots, parking stalls, driveways, service areas and
roadways. For the purposes of this section, VEHICULAR USE AREA (VUA) does not
include areas devoted to the sole purpose of the display of merchandise for
sale.
   (D)   A minimum landscape easement with an average often feet with a minimum
of five feet shall be provided along the front border of parking lots.
Landscaping materials shall include a combination of grass, low ground cover
and shrubs.
   (E)   Landscaping materials located in front of parking areas shall not
exceed three feet in height.
   (F)   Trees shall be protected from potential damage by vehicles.
   (G)   Thirty percent of required trees shall be placed within the perimeter
of the actual parking surface area in those parking lots of over 20 spaces.
   (H)   All parking lots of more than five parking spaces shall include
planted trees in accordance with Schedule 1 below:
Schedule 1
Parking Spaces Requirements No. of Required Minimum Required Maximum of Any One
                            Trees           Variety of Trees Variety
Schedule 1
Parking Spaces Requirements     No. of Required Minimum Required Maximum of Any
                                Trees           Variety of Trees One Variety
1 to 5         No trees         n/a             n/a              n/a
               1 tree for each
6 to 30        6 spaces or      1 to 5          n/a              n/a
               fraction thereof
               up to 30 spaces
               5 trees for the
               first 30 spaces,
31 to 100      plus 1 tree for  5 to 15         2                65%
               each additional
               7 spaces or
               fraction thereof
               15 trees for the
               first 100
               spaces, plus 1
101 to 196     tree for each    15 to 27        3                50%
               additional 8
               spaces or
               fraction thereof
               27 trees for the
               first 196
               spaces, plus 1
197 to 304     tree for each    27 to 39        4                40%
               additional 9
               spaces or
               fraction thereof
               39 trees for the
               first 305
               spaces, plus 1
305 to 504     tree for each    39 to 59        5                35%
               additional 10
               spaces or
               fraction thereof
               59 trees for the
               first 505
               spaces, plus 1
505 or more    tree for each    59+             6                30%
               additional 11
               spaces or
               fraction thereof
 
   (I)   The following situations shall require landscape easements:
      (1)   When any new development adjoins any R-MH1 or R-MH2 zone;
      (2)   When any new development adjoins a business or industrial zone;
      (3)   When any new development adjoins a freeway, expressway or railroad;
      (4)   When any new development adjoins a utility substation, junkyard,
land fill, sewage plant or similar use. For utility substations the landscape
easement may be located adjacent to the enclosure;
      (5)   When a planned unit development (PUD) or zero lot line (ZLL)
development abuts any residential zone containing one- and two-family dwelling
units and abuts any commercial or industrial zone; and
      (6)   When any new development abuts a residential zone.
   (J)   Interior landscaping for vehicular use areas (VUAs). Landscaping shall
be provided for vehicular use areas in accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   A minimum of 5% of the total VUA shall be landscaped and the
landscaping shall be dispersed throughout the paved area. The VUA landscaping
shall only be required for uses that have more than 20 parking spaces. This
section shall not apply to parking lots used for the sole purpose of displaying
merchandise for sale.
      (2)   The VUA landscaping shall contain a variety of plant materials and
be dispersed in the form of planting islands or peninsulas throughout the VUA.
The minimum size of planting areas shall be 80 square feet.
      (3)   Planting islands within the VUA shall be required within every
other parking row, when parking rows are provided in the interior portions of
the parking lot. Planting islands may be placed in a staggered or linear
design.
      (4)   All planting islands shall be planted with grass, low ground cover,
shrubs, flowers, trees or any combination of these. Hard surfaces or gravel are
not permitted.
      (5)   All planting islands shall have a minimum of six-inch curbs
installed to protect the planting area from vehicular traffic.
      (6)   All plant material (other than grass or ground cover) located
within landscape islands where vehicle overhangs are needed shall be setback a
minimum of two feet six inches from the edge of pavement or face of curb.
      (7)   Landscaping materials shall be located between the structure and
all common boundaries including the side yard and frontage of parking lots.
      (8)   Trees used in planting islands two to four feet wide are restricted
to mature height of ten to 25 feet and defined as small sized trees. Trees used
in planting islands four to eight feet wide may use small trees or trees that
reach a mature height of 25 to 50 feet and defined as medium sized trees. Trees
used in planting islands greater than eight feet are not restricted by size.
   (K)   Landscaping shall be located around the base of freestanding signs.
The landscaping shall be ornamental in nature with shrubs, flowers and other
ornamental plant materials. Sign landscaping is not required for free-standing
signs permitted before the adoption of this chapter. The amount of landscape
area required shall be one square foot of landscape area per one square foot of
sign area. At least 50% of the required landscaping area shall be planted with
trees and/or shrubs.
   (L)   Any facade or portion of a building facade not used for outdoor
display, storage or loading/unloading shall be required to provide the
following landscaping if the wall is visible from a public right-of-way. Blank
facades shall be classified as any wall that does not have windows used for
display or entry doors for employees or the general public. Buildings which are
10,000 square feet or smaller shall be exempt from the requirements of this
section.
      (1)   Trees shall be provided on an average of at least one tree per 40
linear feet of blank facade as defined above and shrubs shall be provided on an
average of at least one shrub per ten linear feet of blank facade. This
landscaping is not required to be placed in a linear design, but shall be
required to be dispersed throughout the length of the building facade.
      (2)   Facades that abut VUAs shall have a minimum eight-foot wide
planting area. This planting area can be reduced by four feet if sidewalks are
installed.
   (M)   The necessity of screening and the type of screening required varies
greatly with each particular situation. Therefore, it is the intent of this
section to provide a discretionary measure in deciding the appropriate height,
width and type of screening necessary, with the following provisions:
      (1)   Required screening; height limits. Screening shall be required and
adequately maintained in the following situations:
         (a)   Where a business zone abuts a residential zone, a screen will be
required along the boundary of the business property adjacent to the
residential property;
         (b)   Where an industrial zone abuts a residential zone, a screen will
be required along the boundary of the industrial property adjacent to the
residential property; and
         (c)   Where a business or industrial zone abuts a residential zone, a
screen will be required along the boundary of the adjacent residential zone.
            1.   Where on any lot, or portion thereof, automobiles, appliances
and their component parts are under repair or reduction, a screen shall be
required.
            2.   Off-street parking lots shall be screened when located
adjacent to or in a residential zone.
            3.   Mobile home parks shall provide a screen along their property
lines.
            4.   Fences in a residential zone, which may be placed along a
boundary for the purpose of providing privacy or security to the resident,
shall follow the following height limitations:
               a.   Front yard: three feet;
               b.   Fences shall be of a decorative design (chain link, barbed
wire, stock wire, chicken wire and similar type fences are not permitted);
               c.   Side yard: eight feet; and
               d.   Rear yard: eight feet.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, FENCE shall be interpreted to
include any type of fence, wall, trellis or structure placed for the purpose of
this section.
      (3)   All fences shall be constructed of durable materials and shall be
installed to withstand the elements. Fences shall be maintained in good repair
at all times.
      (4)   Uses specified above as requiring screening shall provide a visual
obstruction from adjacent properties in conformance with the following
standards: the screen may be composed of view-obscuring vegetation, wall, fence
or berm. The items may be used individually or in combination. Fences
constructed of chain link, barbed wire, stock wire, chicken wire or other
similar type fences are not permitted when used for screening. The result shall
be opaque 80% screen, which obscures views from the ground to a height of the
object being screened; however, the screen is not required to exceed eight
feet. Plant materials shall be at least two feet tall at the time of
installation and reach the desired height within three to five years. When a
combination of features is proposed, one-fourth of the surface area of walls,
fences or berms that face off-site must be covered with plant material within
three to five years. Berms, when utilized, should not have a slope steeper than
three to one. Additionally, screen areas shall be sufficient to allow for the
mature growth of plant materials when used.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.174 AVERAGE WIDTH OF EASEMENT.
   The minimum average width of a required landscape easement shall be ten
feet.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.175 TREES.
   Required landscape easements of ten feet average width or greater shall
contain a minimum of one tree per 40 feet of linear boundary, or fraction
thereof. Trees do not have to be equally spaced, but may be grouped. Existing
trees shall be preserved where possible. Tree type shall be approved by the
Zoning Administrator and shall be protected from potential damage by vehicles.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.176 PLANTING, HEDGE, FENCE, WALL OR EARTH MOUND.
   Required landscape easements shall contain a continuous planting, hedge,
fence, wall or earth mound four feet in height. For outdoor storage areas for
manufactured products, materials used in manufacturing, wholesale commodities,
automobiles and trucks, a solid wall or fence with a minimum height of six feet
shall be required within the landscape easement which shall also be located
along common boundaries with any street frontage across from a residential or
mobile home park zone. For junkyards and salvage and scrap iron yards, a solid
wall or fence with a minimum height of seven feet shall be required.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.177 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROVIDING EASEMENTS.
   The landscape easement and material required adjacent to any street shall be
provided by the property owner adjoining the street, unless the authority
building the street has fully met all requirements on the street right-of-way.
When adjacent to other common boundaries, the landscaping easement and
materials may be placed on either adjoining parcel or astride the boundary if
both are owned and being processed by the same owner; or generally shall be
placed on the activity listed new development in the relationships listed under
previous sections; or may be placed astride the boundary of adjoining parcels
having different owners if a written agreement, signed by both owners, if filed
with the Zoning Inspector as a public record, or shall be placed on the
activity or parcel being processed when adjoining property is already
developed.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.178 EASEMENT CONFLICTS.
   The required landscape easement may be combined with a utility or other
easement as long as all of the landscape requirements can be fully met;
otherwise, the landscape easement shall be provided in addition to, and
separate from, any other easement. Cars or other objects shall not overhang or
otherwise intrude upon the required landscape easement more than two and one-
half feet, and wheel stops or curbs will be required.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.179 EXISTING LANDSCAPE MATERIAL.
   Existing landscape material shall be shown on the required plan, and any
material in satisfactory condition may be used to satisfy these requirements in
whole or in part when, in the opinion of the public approval authority, such
material meets the requirements and achieves the objectives of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.180 LANDSCAPING AT DRIVEWAYS AND STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   To ensure that landscape materials do not constitute a driving hazard, a
sight triangle shall be observed at all street intersections or intersections
of driveways or alleys with streets in accordance with § 153.030. Within this
sight triangle, no landscape material or other fixed object shall obstruct
vision between a height of three feet and a height of 12 feet above the average
elevation of the existing surfaces at the center line of each street, driveway
or alley. Within the sight triangle, trees shall be permitted as long as,
except during early growth stages, only the tree trunk (no limbs, leaves or the
like) is visible between the three- and 12-foot limitations mentioned above. A
similar exemption is allowed utility poles and traffic signs or lights.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.181 LANDSCAPE MATERIALS.
   The landscaping materials to be utilized shall consist of the following.
   (A)   Walls and fences. Walls shall be constructed of natural stone, brick
or artificial materials arranged in a linear, serpentine or other alignment;
fences shall be constructed of wood. In industrial zones there shall be no
height limitations on walls or fences. In all other zones, however, there shall
be a three-foot height restriction for walls or fences in front yards, and an
eight-foot height restriction in all other required yards. All walls or fences
shall have a minimum opacity of 80%.
   (B)   Earth mounds. Earth mounds shall be constructed with proper slopes and
adequate plant material to prevent erosion.
   (C)   Plants. All plant materials shall be living plants (artificial plants
are prohibited), meet the American Nursery Standards, and shall conform with §§
153.187 and
153.188. If plant material not included in the adopted list is to be used, the
developer shall receive prior approval from the Zoning Inspector. In addition,
plant material shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Quality. Plant materials used in conformance with the provision of
this chapter shall conform to the standards of the American Association of
Nurserymen and shall have passed any inspections required under state
regulations.
      (2)   Deciduous trees (trees which normally shed their leaves in the
fall). Deciduous trees should be species having an average mature crown spread
of greater than 15 feet and having trunks which can be maintained with over
five feet of clear wood in areas which have visibility requirements.
      (3)   Evergreen trees. Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of five feet
high with a minimum caliber of one and one-half inches and a minimum spread of
three feet immediately after planting.
      (4)   Shrubs and hedges. Shrubs and hedges shall be at least two feet to
three feet in average height or spread when planted and shall conform to
opacity and other requirements within four years after planting.
      (5)   Vines. Vines shall be at least 12 to 15 inches high at planting and
are generally used in conjunction with walls or fences.
      (6)   Grass or ground cover. Grass (of common mixtures of Fescus,
Bluegrass and Rye) shall be planted in species normally grown as permanent
lawns in the city, and may be sodded, plugged, sprigged or seeded; except in
swales or other areas subject to erosion where solid sod, erosion-reducing net
or suitable mulch shall be used.
      (7)   Minimum. A minimum of 20% of the landscape planting required shall
be of evergreen trees and shrubs.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.182 MAINTENANCE AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   All landscaping materials shall be installed in a sound, workmanlike
manner and according to accepted good construction and planting procedures. Any
landscape material, which fails to meet the requirements of this chapter at the
time of installation, shall be removed and replaced with acceptable materials.
Inspections will be conducted by the Zoning Inspector after installation of
landscaping to assure compliance with the submitted and approved site plan. The
person in charge of or in control of the property whether as owner, lessee,
tenant, occupant or otherwise shall be responsible for the continued proper
maintenance of all landscaping materials and shall keep them in a proper, neat
and orderly appearance free from refuse, debris, noxious weeds and unwanted
grass at all times. All unhealthy or dead plant material shall be replaced
within four months or by the next planting period, whichever comes first; while
other defective landscape material shall be replaced or repaired within two
months. Plant material shall not be severely pruned such that the natural
growth pattern or characteristic form is significantly altered. Surfaces
denuded of vegetation shall be seeded or sodded to prevent soil erosion. The
removal or destruction of landscape material previously approved by the city
shall constitute a violation of the zoning ordinance. Replacement of landscape
material shall be of like type as that which was removed or destroyed. Surety
will be submitted as a part of the public improvements.
   (B)   Violation of these installation and maintenance provisions shall be
grounds for the Zoning Inspector to refuse a building certificate of occupancy
permit, require replacement of landscape material and will subject those in
violation to established fines and penalties of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.183 PLAN SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL.
   Whenever any property is affected by these landscaping requirements, the
property owner or developer shall prepare a landscape plan for submittal to,
and approval by, the Planning Commission. The Zoning Inspector shall follow the
requirements of this subchapter in approving or disapproving any landscape plan
required by this subchapter. Landscape plans also may be submitted as part of
any plan review required by the Planning Commission. The property owner or
developer shall submit the Landscape Plan to the Zoning Inspector as part of
the site plan review process.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.184 PLAN REVIEW.
   The contents of the landscape plan shall include the following:
   (A)   Site plan, drawn to a scale not to exceed one inch to 50 feet, showing
the labeling by name and dimensions all existing and proposed property lines,
easements, buildings and other structures, vehicular use areas (including
parking stalls, driveways, service areas, square footage and the like), water
outlets, landscape material (tree, wall, fence, hedge or earth mound
locations), and existing topography, proposed grading at a minimum of two-foot
contours;
   (B)   Typical elevations or cross-sections as may be required;
   (C)   Title box with the pertinent names and addresses (property owner,
person drawing plan and person installing landscape material), scale, date,
north arrow (generally orient plan so that north is to top of plan), and zoning
classification;
   (D)   Plant schedule including common name, botanic name, cultivar, size and
quantity, condition (balled and burlaped, container size or bare root), and
planting details using the standards of the American Society of Landscape
Architects; and
   (E)   All adjacent property owners, land use, current zoning and proposed
zoning.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.185 VARIANCE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall have the authority to grant a waiver of
any of the requirements in this chapter upon written request, which outlines
the rationale for the waiver. The Planning Commission shall review each written
request and grant a waiver only; under unusual or extreme circumstances which
cause an unreasonable hardship such as the size of the lot; or, when an
innovative or alternative approach can be made which still meets the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   Any landscape plan submitted to and disapproved by the Planning
Commission because it does not meet the requirements of this subchapter may be
appealed within 60 days of the action to the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.186 HARDSHIP EXCLUSION.
   (A)   No property owner obtaining a permit for a project involving a new
building or building addition shall be required to expend more than 1.5% of the
total construction cost for materials and installation costs associated with
landscaping and parking lot screening required by this chapter. No property
owner obtaining a permit for a project involving only a new or expanded parking
lot, with no building construction, shall be required to expend more than 3% of
the total construction costs for materials and installation costs associated
with parking lot landscaping and screening required by this chapter.
   (B)   In order to qualify for this exclusion, the property owner must submit
a bona fide bid from a licensed contractor or nurseryman for materials and
installation costs for an approved landscape plan. The bid for landscaping must
distinguish those items which are required by the ordinance from any other
items which are not required. If the total cost of required landscaping items
exceeds the applicable percentage as specified above, then the property owner
may select items at his or her discretion to delete from the approved plan, and
submit the list of items to be deleted as an addendum to the approved plan.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.187 ACCEPTABLE PLANT LIST.
   Suggested woody plants:
Suggested Large Trees (Over 50 Feet in Height)
Scientific Name Common Name Plant Type Height Spread
Suggested Large Trees (Over 50 Feet in Height)
Scientific Name       Common Name            Plant Type Height      Spread
Abies concolor        White Fir              E          30' to 50'  15' to 30'
Acer rubrum           Red Maple (spp., cvs)  D          40' to 60'  30' to 40'
Acer saccharum        Sugar Maple (spp.,     D          60' to 75'  50' to 60'
                      cvs, hybrids)
Alnus glutinosa       Black Alder            D          40' to 60'  20' to 40'
Betula nigra          River Birch            D          40' to 70'  40' to 60'
Carpinus betulus      European Hornbeam      D          40' to 60'  30' to 50'
Cercidiphyllum        Katsura Tree           D          40' to 60'  30' to 50'
japonicum
Chamaecyparis         Sawara Falsecypress    E          50' to 70'  10' to 20'
pisifera
Eucommia ulmoides     Hardy Rubber Tree      D          40' to 60'  40' to 50'
Ginkgo biloba (Male)  Ginkgo                 D          50' to 80'  30' to 50'
Gymnocladus dioicus   Kentucky Coffeetree    D          60' to 75'  40' to 50'
Ilex opaca            American Holly         E          40' to 70'  20' to 40'
Larix decidua         European Larch         D          70' to 75'  25' to 30'
Liriodendron          Tulip or Yellow Poplar D          70' to 90'  35' to 50'
tulipifera
Magnolia acuminata    Cucumbertree Magnolia  D          50' to 80'  50' to 80'
Metasequoia           Dawn Redwood           D          70' to 100' 25'
glyptostroboides
Picea abies           Norway Spruce          E          40' to 60'  25' to 30'
Picea glauca          White Spruce           E          40' to 60'  10' to 20'
Picea omorika         Serbian Spruce         E          50' to 60'  20' to 25'
Picea orientalis      Oriental Spruce        E          50' to 60'  20' to 30'
Picea pungens         Colorado Spruce        E          50' to 70'  20' to 30'
Pinus resinosa        Red Pine               E          50' to 80'  20' to 40'
Pinus strobus         White Pine             E          50' to 80'  20' to 40'
Pinus sylvestris      Scotch Pine            E          30' to 60'  30' to 40'
Pinus thunbergii      Japanese Black Pine    E          20' to 50'  var.
Platanus x acerifolia London Planetree       D          70' to 100' 60' to 80'
Plantanus             American Sycamore      D          75' to 100' 75' to 100'
occidentalis
Ouercus alba          White Oak              D          60' to 100' 50' to 80'
Quercus bicolor       Swamp White Oak        D          50' to 60'  50'
Quercus coccinea      Scarlet Oak            D          70' to 75'  40' to 50'
Quercus imbricaria    Shingle Oak            D          50' to 60'  40' to 60'
Quercus muehlenbergii Chinkapin Oak          D          70' to 80'  80' tol00'
Ouercus nigra         Water Oak              D          50' to 80'  40' to 60'
Ouercus phellos       Willow Oak             D          40' to 60'  40' to 50'
Ouercus rubra         Northern Red Oak       D          60' to 75'  40' to 50'
Quercus shumardii     Shumard Oak            D          40' to 60'  40' to 50'
Stephanolobium        Japanese Pagoda        D          50' to 70'  40' to 60'
japonicum
Taxodium distichum    Bald Cypress           D          50' to 70'  20' to 30'
Thuja occidentalis    American Arborvatae    E          40' to 60'  10' to 15'
Tilia cor data        Littleleaf Linden      D          60' to 70'  30' to 50'
Tilia tomentosa       Silver Linden          D          50' to 70'  30' to 50'
Tsuga canadensis      Eastern Hemlock        E          40' to 70'  25' to 35'
Tsuga caroliniana     Carolina Hemlock       E          45' to 60'  20' to 25'
                      American Elm (hybrid
Ulmus americana       resistant to Dutch Elm D          60' to 80'  40' to 55'
                      Disease)
Ulmus parvifolia      Lacebark Elm           D          40' to 50'  40' to 50'
Zelkova serrata       Japanese Zelkova       D          50' to 80'  40' to 70'
 
Suggested Medium Trees (25 to 50 Feet in Height)
Scientific Name Common Name Plant Type Height Spread
Suggested Medium Trees (25 to 50 Feet in Height)
Scientific Name    Common Name                 Plant Type Height     Spread
Acer campestre     Hedge Maple                 D          25' to 35' 25' to 35'
Amelanchier        Downy Serviceberry          D          15' to 25' 10' to 15'
arborea
Carpinus           American Hornbeam           D          20' to 30' 20' to 30'
caroliniana
Cladrastis         Yellowwood                  D          30' to 50' 40' to 50'
kentukea
Corylus colurna    Turkish Filbert             D          40' to 50' 20' to 30'
Gleditisia
tricanthos var.    Thornless Honey Locust      D          30' to 50' 30' to 50'
inter mis
Halesia tetraptera Carolina Silverbell         D          30' to 40' 20' to 35'
Ilex opaca         American Holly              E          40' to 50' 18' to 40'
Juniperus          Eastern Redcedar            E          40' to 50' 10' to 20'
virginiana
Koelreutearia      Golden Raintree             D          30' to 40' 30' to 40'
paniculata
Nyssa sylvatica    Tupelo, Black Gum           D          30' to 50' 20' to 30'
Ostrya virginiana  Hophornbeam                 D          25' to 40' 20' to 30'
Oxydendrum         Sourwood                    D          25' to 30' 20' to 25'
arboretum
Parrotia persica   Persian Parrotia            D          20' to 40' 15' to 30'
Phellodendron      Cork Tree                   D          30' to 45' 30' to 40'
amurense
Pinus cembra       Swiss Stone Pine            E          30' to 40' 15' to 25'
Pinus parviflora   Japanese White Pine         E          25' to 50' 25' to 50'
Prunus sargentii   Sargent Cherry              D          40' to 50' 30' to 50'
Prunus subhirtella Higaen Cherry               D          20' to 40' 15' to 30'
Prunus yedoensis   Yoshino Cherry              D          20' to 40' 20' to 40'
Pyrus calleryana   Callery Pear (cultivars     D          30' to 50' 20' to 35'
                   only except ‘Bradford’)
Quercus acutissima Sawtooth Oak                D          35' to 45' 30' to 40'
Stewartia pseudo-  Japanese Stewartia          D          20' to 35' 20' to 30'
camellia
Syringa reticulate Japanese Tree Lilac         D          20' to 30' 15' to 25'
 
Suggested Large Shrubs of Small Trees (10 to 25 Feet in Height)
Scientific Name Common Name Plant Type Height Spread
Suggested Large Shrubs of Small Trees (10 to 25 Feet in Height)
Scientific Name        Common Name             Plant Type Height     Spread
Acer tataricum var.    Amur Maple              D          15' to 18' 15' to 20'
ginnala
Acer palmatum          Japanese Maple          D          15' to 25' 15' to 25'
Acer pensylvanicum     Striped Maple           D          15' to 20' 12' to 20'
Aesculus parviflora    Bottlebrush Buckeye     D          8' to 12'  8' to 15'
Aesculus pavia         Red Buckeye             D          10' to 20' 10' to 20'
Amelanchier laevis     Allegheny Serviceberry  D          15' to 25' 15' to 25'
Cercis canadensis      Eastern Redbud          D          20' to 25' 20' to 30'
Chionanthus virginicus White Fringetree        D          15' to 30' 15' to 30'
Cornus alternifolia    Pagoda Dogwood          D          15' to 25' 20' to 30'
Cornus florida         Flowering Dogwood       D          20' to 25' 20' to 30'
Cornus kousa           Kousa Dogwood           D          15' to 20' 15' to 20'
Cornus mas             Corneliancherry Dogwood D          20' to 25' 15' to 20'
Crataegus phaenopyrum  Washington Hawthorn     D          20' to 30' 20' to 25'
Cratategus viridus     Green Hawthorne         D          20' to 30' 20' to 30'
Crataegus x lavallei   LaValle Hawthorne       D          15' to 25' 10' to 20'
Forsythia x intermedia Border Forsythia        D          8' to 10'  10' to 12'
Hamamelis virginiana   Common Witchhazel       D          20' to 30' 20' to 25'
Hydrangea paniculata   Panicle Hydrangea       D          15' to 25' 10' to 20'
Ilex x attenuate       Foster Holly            E          10' to 20' 5' to 10'
Fosteri’
Juniperus chinensis    Chinese Juniper         E          12' to 25' var.
                       (cultivars)
Magnolia stellata      Star Magnolia           D          15' to 20' 10' to 15'
Magnolia virginiana    Sweetbay Magnolia       D          10' to 20' 10' to 20'
Magnolia x soulangiana Saucer Magnolia         D          20' to 25' 20' to 30'
                       Crabapple (must be
Malus (varieties)      cultivar with disease   D          10' to 25' 10' to 30'
                       resistance)
Pinus densiflora       Japanese Red Pine       E          10' to 15' 10' to 15'
Pinus mugo             Mugho Pine              E          15' to 20' 20' to 30'
Platycladus orientalis Oriental Arborvitae     E          15' to 25' 10' to 12'
Prunus serrulata       Oriental Cherry         D          15' to 20' 15' to 20'
                       (cultivars)
Ptelea trifoliata      Hoptree                 D          15' to 20' 15' to 20'
Taxus cuspidata        Japanese Yew            E          10' to 20' 10' to 30'
                       (cultivars)
Viburnum lentago       Nannyberry              D          15' to 18' 6' to 10'
Viburnum opulus        Cranberrybush Viburnum  D          8' to 10'  10' to 15'
Viburnum prunifolium   Blackhaw Viburnum       D          12' to 15' 8' to 12'
Viburnum               Leatherleaf Viburnum    E          10' to 15' 10' to 15'
rhytidophyllum
Viburnum rufiduium     Southern or Rusty       D          12' to 15' 8' to 12'
                       Blackhaw
Viburnum sieboldii     Siebold Viburnum        D          15' to 20' 10' to 15'
Viburnum trilobum      American Cranberrybush  D          8' to 12'  8' to 12'
 
Suggested Medium Shrubs (6 to 10 Feet in Height)
Scientific Name Common Name Plant Type Height Spread
Suggested Medium Shrubs (6 to 10 Feet in Height)
Scientific Name          Common Name          Plant Type Height    Spread
Acanthopanax sieboldian  Fiveleaf Aralia      D          8' to 10' 8' to 10'
Aronia arbutifolia       Red Chokeberry       D          6' to 10' 3' to 5'
Aronia melanocarpa       Black Chokeberry     D          3' to 5'  3' to 5'
Calycanihus floridus     Carolina Allspice    D          6' to 9'  6' to 12'
Chamecyparis pisifera    Sawara falsecypress  E          6' to 8'  6' to 7'
                         (selected cultivars)
Cornus serica            Redosier Dogwood     D          7' to 9'  10'+
Cotoneaster lucidus      Hedge Cotoneaster    D          5' to 10' 6' to 10'
Cotoneaster multiflora   Many Flowered        D          8' to 12' 12' to 15'
                         Cotoneaster
Forsythia suspense       Weeping Forsythia    D          8' to 10' 10' to 15'
Fothergilla major        Large Fothergilla    D          6' to 10' 5' to 8'
Hamamelis vernalis       Vernal Witchhazel    D          6' to 10' 6' to 10'
Ilex crenata             Japanese Holly       E          5' to 8'  5' to 8'
Ilex glabra              Inkberry             D          6' to 8'  8' to 10'
Ilex verticillata        Winterberry          D          6' to 9'  6' to 9'
Ilex x me serve          Meserve Holly        E          6' to 10' 6' to 10'
Juniperus communis       Common Juniper       E          5' to 10' 8' to 12'
Kalmia latifolia         Mountain Laurel      E          7' to 10' 7' to 10'
Lindera benzoin          Spicebush            D          6' to 12' 6' to 12'
Myrica pennsylvanica     Northern Bayberry    D          5' to 12' 5' to 12'
Pieris japonica          Japanese Pieris      E          9' to 12' 6' to 8'
Rhododendron (varieties) Rhodondendron        E          var.      var.
                         (varieties)
Taxus x media            Anglojap Yew         E          5' to 12' var.
Viburnum dentatum        Arrowwood Viburnum   D          6' to 8'  6' to 12'
Viburnum x burkwoodii    Burkwood Viburnum    D          8' to 10' 6' to 8'
 
Suggested Small Shrubs (4 to 6 Feet in Height)
Scientific Name Common Name Plant Type Height Spread
Suggested Small Shrubs (4 to 6 Feet in Height)
Scientific Name        Common Name            Plant Type Height   Spread
Berberis koreana       Korean Barberry        D          4' to 6' 3' to 5'
Berberis thunbergii    Japanese Barberry      D          4' to 5' 5' to 7'
Berberis x mentorensis Mentor Barberry        D          5' to 7' 5' to 7'
Chamaecyparis obtuse   Hinoki Falsecypress    E          5' to 7' 5' to 7'
                       (cultivars)
Clethra alnifolia      Summersweet Clethra    D          5' to 7' 5' to 7'
Leucothoe fontanesiana Dropping Leucothoe     E          5' to 7' 5' to 7'
Pinus mugho            Mugho Pine (cultivars) E          5' to 7' 5' to 7'
 
Suggested Low Shrubs (1-1/2 to 4 Feet in Height)
Scientific Name Common Name Plant Type Height Spread
Suggested Low Shrubs (1-1/2 to 4 Feet in Height)
Scientific Name         Common Name           Plant Type Height       Spread
Abelia x grandiflora    Glossy Abelia         D          3' to 5'     3' to 5'
Abeliophyllum distichum Korean Abelialeaf     D          3' to 5'     3' to 5'
Berberis thunbergii     Japanese Barberry     D          3' to 5'     4' to 7'
                        (cultivars)
Buxus microphylla       Littleleaf Boxwood    E          3' to 4'     3' to 4'
Cotoneaster             Rock Cotoneaster      D          2' to 3'     5' to 8'
horizontalis
Deutzia gracillis       Slender Deutzia       D          2' to 4'     3' to 4'
Fothergilla gardenia    Dwarf Fothergilla     D          2' to 4'     3' to 4'
Hypericum frondosum     Golden St. Johnswort  D          3' to 4'     3' to 4'
Hypericum prolificum    Shrubby St. Johnswort D          2' to 4'     2' to 4'
Ilex crenata            Japanese Holly        E          2' to 4'     2' to 4'
Juniperus chinesis var. Sargents Chinese      E          1.5' to 2.5' 7' to 9'
sargentii               Juniper
Juniperus horizontalis  Creeping Juniper      E          2' to 2.5'   6' to 10
Potentilla jruticosa    Bush Cinquefoil       D          1' to 4'     2' to 4'
Spiraea x bumalda       Bumalda Spirea        D          2' to 3'     3' to 5'
Taxus baccata           English Yew           E          2' to 4'     3' to 5'
Ajuga reptans           Carpet Bugle          E          4" to 12"    var.
Arctostaphylos uva-ursi Bearberry             D          6" to 12"    2' to 4'
Cotoneaster adpressa    Creeping Cotoneaster  D          12" to 18"   4' to 6'
Cotoneaster dammeri     Bearberry Cotoneaster D          12" to 18"   6' to 8'
Hedera helix            English Ivy           E          6" to 8"     var.
Hypericum calycinum     St. Johnswort         D          12" to 18"   18" to 24
Juniperus conferta      Shore Juniper         E          12" to 18"   6' to 9'
Juniperus horizontalis  Creeping Juniper      E          12" to 24"   4' to 8'
                        (cultivars)
Juniperus sabina        Savin Juniper         E          12" to 18"   3' to 5'
                        (cultivars)
Liriope muscari         Liriope               E          12" to 18"   var.
Pachysandraterminalis   Japanese Spurge       E          1" to 10"    var.
Vinca minor             Periwinkle            D          3" to 6"     var.
Xanthorhiza             Yellowroot            D          12" to 24"   var.
simplicissima
(A) Notes to table:
(1) spp. = species;
(2) cvs = cultivars;
(3) E = evergreen;
(4) D = deciduous; and
(5) var. = varies.
 
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.188 UNDESIRABLE PLANT LIST.
Undesirable Plant List
Scientific Name Common Name
Undesirable Plant List
Scientific Name             Common Name
Acer negundo                Boxelder
Acer platanoides            Norway Maple
Acer saccharinum            Silver Maple
Ailanthus altissima         Tree of Heaven
A Wizia julibrissin         Mimosa
Betula papyri/era           White Birch
Betula pendula              European White Birch
Celtis occidentalis         Hackberry
Elaeagnus angustifolia      Russian Olive
Elaeagnus umbellate         Autumn Olive
Fraxinus (all)              Ash
Ginkgo biloba (female)      Ginkgo (except for male)
Ligustrum (all)             Privets (all)
Liquidambar styraciflua     Sweetgum
Madura pomifera             Osage Orange
Paulownia tomentosa         Empress Tree
Populus alba                Silver-leafed Poplar
Populus nigra               Lombardy Poplar
Pyrus calleryana ‘BradfordBradford Pear
Robinia psuedoaacia         Black Locust
Salix babylonica            Weeping Willow
Ulmus americana             American Elm (except for Dutch Elm resistant
                            hybrids)
Ulmus pumila                Siberian Elm
 
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
AMENDMENTS
§ 153.200 PROCEDURE FOR AMENDMENT OR DISTRICT CHANGES.
   This chapter may be amended utilizing the procedures specified, inclusive,
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.201 INTENT.
   Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning
practices require, City Council may by ordinance after receipt of
recommendations thereon from the Planning Commission, and subject to procedures
provided by law, amend, supplement, change or repeal the regulations,
restrictions and boundaries or classification of property.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.202 INITIATION OF ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Amendments to the official zoning map may be initiated in one of the
following ways:
      (1)   By adoption of a motion by the Planning Commission;
      (2)   By adoption of a resolution by City Council; and
      (3)   By a property owner filing an application.
   (B)   Applications for amendments proposing to amend, supplement, change or
repeal portions of this chapter other than the official zoning map may be
initiated by either the Planning Commission or City Council following the
procedures as outlined in KRS 100.211.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.203 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for amendments to the official zoning map adopted as part
of this chapter by §
153.016, official zoning map shall contain at least the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
      (2)   Legal authorized signature of property owner;
      (3)   Proposed amending ordinance, approved as to form by the city legal
advisor;
      (4)   Present use;
      (5)   Present zoning district;
      (6)   Proposed zoning district;
      (7)   A vicinity map at scale approved by the Zoning Inspector showing
property lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning, and such other
items as the Zoning Inspector may require;
      (8)   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses who are
within, contiguous to, or directly across the street from the parcel(s)
proposed to be rezoned and others that may have a substantial interest in the
case;
      (9)   A statement on how the proposed amendment meets the criteria for
amendments as stipulated in KRS 100.213; and
      (10)   A fee as established by City Council according to Appendix D,
attached to the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by
reference in §
153.272.
   (B)   As a condition of granting any amendment to the official zoning map,
the Planning Commission may require the submission of a development plan. When
required, the development plan shall be filed in accordance with the provisions
of KRS 100.203(2) and contain information as outlined in §§
153.220 through
153.222. Where agreed upon, this development plan shall be followed and shall
be binding on all parties. In addition, in cases where a development plan is
required and agreed to, the Planning Commission may require that substantial
construction be initiated within a period of not less than one year.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall assume all duties otherwise exercised by
the Board of Zoning Adjustment pursuant to KRS 100.231, 100.233, 100.237,
100.241, 100.247 and 100.251 in cases where a proposed development requires a
map amendment and one or more variances or conditional use permits. Application
for variances and conditional uses may be filed concurrently with the
application for zoning map amendment on the same property to be considered by
the Planning Commission for a map amendment. The applicant for the map
amendment, at the time of filing the application for the map amendment, may
elect to have any variances or conditional use permits, for the same
development, heard and finally decided by the Planning Commission at the same
public hearing set for the map amendment or by the Board of Zoning Adjustment
as otherwise provided for in §§
153.095 through
153.103 or §§
153.267 through
153.271.
   (D)   The reconsideration of a denied map amendment or consideration of a
map amendment identical to a denied map amendment is prohibited for a period of
two years.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.204 TRANSMITTAL TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Immediately after the filing of an application, it shall be transmitted to
the Commission and heard during a regular or specially called Planning
Commission meeting.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.205 PUBLIC HEARING BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission shall schedule a public hearing after a petition is
received. Publication of public hearing shall be not less than 14, nor more
than 21, days from the date of the hearing. Notices shall be in the newspaper
as described in §
153.206. In a situation where these requirements are in conflict with current
state statutes, the notification for public hearing must comply with the
statutory requirements for map and text amendment.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.206 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING; IN NEWSPAPER AND TO PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Notice of public hearing shall be given by the Planning Commission by
at least one publication in one or more newspapers of general circulation in
the city affected. Said notice shall be published at least 14 days before the
date of the required hearing. The published notice shall conform to local
procedures setting forth the time and place of the public hearing and a summary
of the proposed amendment. In a situation where these requirements are in
conflict with current state statutes, the notification for public hearing must
comply with the statutory requirements for map and text amendment.
   (B)   For a map amendment, notice of the public hearing shall be given at
least 14 days in advance of the hearing by certified mail, return receipt
requested to the owners of property adjoining property classification of which
is proposed to be changed. In a situation where these requirements are in
conflict with current state statutes, the notification for public hearing must
comply with the statutory requirements for map and text amendment.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.207 PLACEMENT OF SIGN ON PROPERTY.
   For a map amendment, a sign shall be placed on the property to be considered
for the rezoning at least 14 days in advance of the hearing. The sign shall
conform to the dimensional requirements established in KRS 100.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.208 RECOMMENDATION BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Within 60 days from the receipt of either the proposed map or text
amendment, the Planning Commission shall transmit its recommendation to the
City Council. The Planning Commission may recommend that the amendment be
granted as requested, or it may recommend a modification of the amendment
requested, or it may recommend that the amendment be denied. The recommendation
of the Planning Commission, when applicable and agreed upon, shall include the
Development Plan and any and all conditions imposed pursuant to KRS 100.203 and
§
153.203.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.209 ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL.
   Within 90 days or from the date of a final dispositive vote by the Planning
Commission, the City Council shall either adopt or reject the recommendation of
the Planning Commission or adopt some modification thereof as provided herein.
   (A)   The Council shall take one of the following actions on a
recommendation from the Planning Commission:
      (1)   The Council may take no action and after 90 days, the Planning
Commission recommendation is adopted by operation of law;
      (2)   The Council may accept the Planning Commission recommendation
(finding of fact/summary of evidence and testimony);
      (3)   The Council may review the transcript of the public hearing held
before the Planning Commission and then either adopt or reject or modify the
Planning Commission recommendation based on findings of fact developed from the
review; or
      (4)   The Council may hold a public hearing which meets the notice
requirements in the ordinance and, at the conclusion of the public hearing,
make a final decision based on findings of fact developed at the hearing.
   (B)   The Council can then go into deliberations and develop findings of
fact which support its decision. The Council may go into closed session to
deliberate.
   (C)   It shall take a majority of the entire legislative body to override
the recommendation of the Planning Commission.
   (D)   An ordinance will be adopted to reflect any final action resulting in
a map amendment or text amendment.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
PLAN REVIEW
§ 153.220 NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   New developments defined as: multi-family structures, developments using the
planned unit development (PUD) or zero lot line (ZLL) provisions found in this
chapter, and industrial or commercial developments of more than one-half acre
shall be subject to a plan review. The plan review shall consist of a site plan
and other exhibits as deemed necessary by the Planning Commission in order to
gain full insight into the developer’s intent.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.221 REQUIRED EXHIBITS.
   The following exhibits shall be prepared by design professionals, such as
architects, landscape architects, surveyors and engineers and be submitted to
the Planning Commission with the appropriate fee and application forms as
established in the appendices following this chapter.
   (A)   Storm water management plans and flood safety and protection
certification certified by a professional engineer or architect with three
copies of the respective application and six copies of the design and
construction of the storm water and flood safety plans, with all pertinent
calculations (if applicable).
   (B)   A site plan of the proposed project (12 copies) which shows the
following information:
      (1)   A map drawn to scale, preferably one inch equals 100 feet or one
inch equals 50 feet;
      (2)   A written legal description;
      (3)   Existing topography and contour intervals not greater than five
feet;
      (4)   Final grade contours with intervals not exceeding five feet;
      (5)   A vicinity map with existing streets;
      (6)   Proposed surface water drainage;
      (7)   Existing and proposed property lines;
      (8)   Parking and loading areas;
      (9)   Areas to be dedicated or reserved for parks, playgrounds and the
like;
      (10)   Existing natural features;
      (11)   Location of existing and proposed utilities, water and sewer
lines, (size), power lines and the like; and
      (12)   Location of proposed buildings with:
         (a)   Setback lines;
         (b)   Adequate security lighting;
         (c)   The required number of parking spaces;
         (d)   Trash and garbage containment with proposed buffer;
         (e)   Gross and net acreage;
         (f)   Lot sizes (dimensions and square footage);
         (g)   Building heights and stories;
         (h)   Building coverage for each lot;
         (i)   Existing and proposed landscaping; and
         (j)   Buffering elements which will provide a logical transition to
adjoining, existing or permitted uses.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.222 PRELIMINARY REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The preliminary review process is an investigatory period which
precedes actual preparation of plans by the developer.
   (B)   The developer shall meet informally with the Planning Commission or
its representative and present a general outline of the proposal. Included
shall be (but not limited to) the following:
      (1)   Sketch plans and ideas regarding land use, street and lot
arrangements and tentative lot sizes;
      (2)   Proposals regarding water supply, sewerage disposal, surface
drainage and street improvements; and
      (3)   Other information as deemed necessary by the Planning Commission or
its representative to determine the feasibility of the project.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.223 ACTUAL REVIEW OF SITE PLAN.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the required exhibits, the Planning Commission shall
have 30 days to review the site plan and make the following decision:
      (1)   Approve the plan as submitted;
      (2)   Grant conditional approval and require the applicant to make
changes in order to comply with this chapter; or
      (3)   Deny approval of the site plan as inappropriate with design
standards established in this chapter.
   (B)   Deficiencies will be reported and given to the developer to address.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.224 FILING OF APPROVED SITE PLAN.
   (A)   Once the site plan is approved, the applicant is responsible for
filing the plan and application with the County Court Clerk’s office in the
name of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Failure to file the site plan shall render the plan null and void.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Recording of plats, see KRS 100.329
§ 153.225 ISSUANCE OF ZONING/BUILDING PERMITS.
   The site plan shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission or
duly appointed representative before any permit is issued by the Zoning
Inspector. Approval of the site plan shall be based on compliance with the
criteria listed above and standards found within this document.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.226 PROJECT COMPLETION AND COMPLIANCE.
   Upon completion of the project the design professional shall certify in
writing that the project was built according to the site plan as approved by
the Planning Commission. No certificate of occupancy will be issued until
certification is received by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
ZONING/BUILDING PERMITS
§ 153.240 ZONING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Zoning permits shall be issued only in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.241 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for a zoning permit shall be signed by the owner or
applicant attesting to the truth and exactness of all information supplied by
the applicant.
   (B)   The following information is the minimum required:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
      (2)   Legal description of property;
      (3)   Existing and proposed use;
      (4)   Zoning district:
         (a)   Current zoning; and
         (b)   Proposed zoning.
      (5)   Plans showing the following dimensions:
         (a)   Building site area;
         (b)   Building site width;
         (c)   Building site coverage;
         (d)   Building height; and
         (e)   Building setback lines.
      (6)   Number of off-street parking spaces or loading berths;
      (7)   Number of dwelling units; and
      (8)   Any other matters which may be necessary to determine conformance
with and provide for the information of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.242 APPROVAL.
   Within five working days after the receipt of the application, the Zoning
Inspector shall either approve or disapprove the application.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.243 INTEGRATION OF ZONING/BUILDING PERMIT.
   The zoning permit will be integrated with the building permit. The zoning/
building permit will be issued based on compliance with zoning regulations and
building codes.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.244 RECORD OF ZONING PERMITS.
   The Zoning Inspector shall maintain a complete record of all zoning/building
permits, and copies shall be furnished or presented for review to any person
making a request.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.245 FAILURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT.
   Failure to obtain a zoning/building permit shall be a violation of this
chapter and will be punishable under the provisions set forth in §
153.999.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.246 CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO BE AS PROVIDED IN APPLICATION, PLANS AND
PERMITS.
   Zoning/building permits issued on the basis of plans and applications
approved by the Zoning Inspector authorized only the use of arrangement set
forth in the approved plans and applications. Any use, arrangement or
construction contrary to that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter and shall be punishable under the provisions set forth in §
153.999.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.260 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter that all questions of interpretation and
enforcement shall be first presented to the Zoning Inspector, and that such
questions shall be presented to the Board of Zoning Adjustment only on appeal
from the decision of the Zoning Inspector, and that recourse from the decisions
of the Board shall be to the courts as provided by law. It is further the
intent of this chapter that the duties of the City Council in connection with
this chapter shall not include hearing and deciding questions of interpretation
and enforcement that may arise. The procedure for deciding such questions shall
be as stated in this section and this chapter. Under this chapter, the City
Council shall have only the duties of considering and adopting or rejecting
proposed amendments or the repeal of this chapter as provided by law, and of
establishing a schedule of fees and charges as stated in Appendix D, attached
to the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, adopted by reference in §
153.272. Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prevent any adversely
affected individual, entity or official of the city from appealing a decision
of the Board to the courts as provided in state law. Any person or entity
claiming to be injured or aggrieved by any final action of the Board of Zoning
Adjustment shall file the appeal within 30 days of the Board’s written
decision.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.261 ZONING INSPECTOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   A Zoning Inspector designated by the City Council shall administer and
enforce this chapter. He or she may be provided with the assistance of such
other persons as the City Council may direct.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the Zoning Inspector shall have the
following duties:
      (1)   Upon finding that any of the provisions of this chapter are being
violated, he or she shall notify in writing the person responsible for the
violation, ordering the action necessary to correct the violation;
      (2)   Order discontinuance of illegal uses of land, buildings or
structures;
      (3)   Order removal of illegal buildings or structures or illegal
additions or structural alterations;
      (4)   Order discontinuance of any illegal work being done; and
      (5)   Take any other action authorized by this chapter to ensure
compliance with or to prevent violations of this chapter. This may include the
issuance of and action on zoning and similar administrative duties as are
permissible under the law.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.262 PLANNING COMMISSION; PROCEEDINGS; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall adopt rules necessary for the conduct of
its affairs in keeping with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings shall be
held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Commission
may determine. All meetings shall be open to the public. The Commission shall
keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each
question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep
records of its examinations and other official actions all of which shall be of
public record and be immediately filed in the office of the Commission.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the Planning Commission shall have
the following duties:
      (1)   Initiate proposed amendments to this chapter when or where needed;
      (2)   Review all proposed amendments to this chapter and make
recommendations to the City Council as specified in §§
153.200 through
153.209 ;
      (3)   Review all planned unit developments and make recommendations to
the City Council as provided in §§
153.050 through
153.064;
      (4)   Assume the duties of the Board of Zoning Adjustment as provided in
§
153.263(C)(2) in cases where the subdivision of property requires one or more
variances. In exercising these duties the Planning Commission shall assume and
adhere to the procedural requirements as specified in this chapter pursuant to
§§
153.267 through
153.271 and KRS 100.231, 100.233, 100.237, 100.241, 100.243, 100.247 and
100.251; and
      (5)   Assume the duties of the Board of Zoning Adjustment as provided in
§ §
153.263(C)(2) and (C)(3) in cases where the rezoning of property requires one
or more variances or conditional use permits. In exercising these duties the
Planning Commission shall assume and adhere to the procedural requirements as
specified in this chapter pursuant to §§
153.267 through
153.271 and §§
153.095 through
153.103 and §
153.203.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.263 BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   A Board of Zoning Adjustment is hereby created as set forth in KRS
100.217. The Board shall consist of five citizen members, no more than two of
whom may be citizen members of the Planning Commission. The term of office for
the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be four years. Members are to be appointed
and all vacancies are to be filled as provided in KRS 100.217.
   (B)   The Board shall adopt rules necessary for the conduct of its affairs
in keeping with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings shall be held at the
call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. The
Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the acting Chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall be open to the
public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of
each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall keep records of its examination and other official
actions, all of which shall be public record and be immediately filed in the
office of the Board.
   (C)   In exercising its duties, the Board may, as long as such action is in
conformity with the terms of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly,
or modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and
may make such other requirement, decision or determination as ought to be made,
and to that end shall have the powers of the Zoning Inspector from whom the
appeal is taken. For the purpose of this chapter, the Board has the following
specific responsibilities:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in
any order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination made by the
Zoning Inspector;
      (2)   To authorize such variances from the terms of this chapter as will
not be contrary to the public interest, where owing to the special conditions,
a literal enforcement of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship, and
so that the spirit of this chapter shall be observed and substantial justice
done; and
      (3)   To grant conditional use permits as specified in the official
schedule of uses and under the conditions specified in §§
153.050 through
153.064, and such additional safeguards as will uphold the intent of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.264 CONFORMANCE OF APPEALS AND VARIANCES; APPELLATE JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Appeals and variances shall conform to the procedure and requirements
of this subchapter.
   (B)   As set forth in §
153.263(C), the Board of Zoning Adjustment has appellate jurisdiction relative
to appeals and variances.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.265 APPEALS.
   Appeals to the Board of Zoning Adjustment concerning interpretation or
administration of this chapter may be taken by any persons or entity claiming
to be injuriously affected or aggrieved or by any officer or bureau of the
legislative authority of the city affected by any decision of the Zoning
Inspector. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after the decision by
filing, with the Zoning Inspector and with the Board of Zoning Adjustment, a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds upon which the appeal is being taken.
The Zoning Inspector shall transmit to the Board of Zoning Adjustment all the
papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
At the public hearing on the appeal held by the Board, any interested person
may appear and enter his or her appearance, and all shall be given an
opportunity to be heard.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.266 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   Any appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from
unless the Zoning Inspector from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the
Board of Zoning Adjustment after the notice of appeal is filed with him or her,
that by reason of facts stated in the application, a stay would, in his or her
opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such a case, proceedings
shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted by
the Board of Zoning Adjustment or by a court of record on application, on
notice to the Zoning Inspector from whom the appeal is taken or due cause
shown.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.267 VARIANCES; APPLICATION AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment may authorize upon appeal in specific
cases such variances from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to
the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement
of the provisions of this chapter would result in unnecessary hardship. No
nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or buildings in other
districts shall be considered grounds for issuance of a variance. Variances
shall be granted only where strict application of the provisions of this
chapter would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of land or would
create an unnecessary hardship.
   (B)   A variance from the terms of this chapter shall not be granted by the
Board of Zoning Adjustment unless and until a written application for a
variance is submitted to the Zoning Inspector and the Board of Zoning
Adjustment containing:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of applicants;
      (2)   Legal authorized signature of property owner;
      (3)   Legal description of property;
      (4)   Description of nature of variance requested; and
      (5)   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
         (a)   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land, structure or building involved and which are not
applicable to other lands, structures or buildings in the same district;
         (b)   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district under the terms of this chapter;
         (c)   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant; and
         (d)   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that negatively impacts other land structures
or buildings in the immediate vicinity.
   (C)   A variance shall not be granted unless the Board makes specific
findings of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented to it,
which support conclusions that the standards and conditions imposed by division
(B)(5) above have been met by the applicant.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.268 SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS.
   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Zoning Adjustment grant an appeal
or variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this chapter in
the district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of this chapter in the district. In granting any appeal or variance, the
Board of Zoning Adjustment may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards
in conformity with this chapter. Violation of such conditions and safeguards,
when made a part of the terms under which the appeal or variance is granted,
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and punishable under §
153.999.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.269 PUBLIC HEARING BY THE BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall hold a public hearing within 45 days
after the receipt of an application for an appeal or variance from the Zoning
Inspector or an applicant. However, the public hearing shall not be held sooner
than ten days after its receipt.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.270 NOTICES OF PUBLIC HEARING; IN NEWSPAPERS AND TO ADJOINING PROPERTY
OWNERS.
   (A)   Before holding the public hearing, notice of the hearing shall be
given in one or more newspapers of general circulation of the city at least
seven days before the date of the hearing. The notice shall set forth the time
and place of the public hearing and the nature of the proposed appeal or
variance.
   (B)   Each adjoining property owner shall be contacted in writing prior to
the public hearing. Notice shall be mailed by the Chairperson of the Board of
Zoning Adjustment, or duly appointed representative, by registered mail, at
least seven days before the day of the hearing to all parties in interest. The
notice shall contain the same information as required of notices published in
newspapers as specified in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.271 ACTION BY BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT.
   Within 30 days after the public hearing required in this subchapter, the
Board of Zoning Adjustment shall either approve; approve with supplementary
conditions as specified in §
153.099; or disapprove the request for appeal or variance. The Board of Zoning
Adjustment shall further make a finding that the reasons set forth in the
application justify the granting of the variance that will make possible a
reasonable use of the land, building or structure. Appeals from the Board
decisions shall be made in the manner specified in §§
153.260 through
153.271.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.272 ADOPTION OF APPENDICES BY REFERENCE.
   The appendices to this chapter are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length within.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances, conditional uses and
special use permits, shall constitute an offense under this chapter and shall
result in a fine. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with
any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than
$300 nor less than $10.
   (B)   Each day such violation continues after receipt of a notice of
violation, shall be considered a separate offense. The owner or tenant of any
building, structure, premises or part thereof, and any architect, builder,
contractor, agent, or other person who commits, participates in, assists in or
maintains such violation may each be found in violation of a separate offense
and suffer the penalties herein provided. Nothing herein contained shall
prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 2-7-2013)
APPENDIX A: SCHEDULE OF USES
 
 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-5 B-1 B-2 B-3 B-4 P-1 I-1 I-2
                                                                    R- R- R- R- R- B- B- B- B- P- I- I-2
                                                                     1  2  3  4  5  1  2  3  4  1  1
Above ground storage tank (fuel storage and chemical storage)
(accessory), excluding accessory use for residential and commercial            CU R  CU R  CU R  R
heating
Above ground storage tank (fuel and chemical storage) (primary)                          CU CU
including tank farms
Accountants                                                                    R  R  R  R  R     
Adhesives, excluding manufacturing of basic components                                   R  R
Agricultural grain terminal                                                              CU R
Agricultural uses (crops)                                            R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R
Air conditioning, commercial (manufacturing)                                             CU R
Aircraft and aircraft parts (manufacturing)                                              CU R
Airports                                                                                 CU CU
Aluminum extrusion, rolling fabrication and forming (manufacturing)                        R
Aluminum powder and paint manufacture (manufacturing)                                      R
Amusement arcade                                                               R  R  R  R  R     
Amusement parks                                                            CU CU   CU CU CU   CU  
Amusement park (indoor)                                                        CU R  R  R  CU CU CU
Animal and poultry raising, commercial                                                   R  R
Animal pound                                                                             R  R
Antique shop and interior decorating                                           R  R  R  R       
Apartment hotels and office buildings, including business
customarily incidental to such uses conducted for the convenience of
the occupants and provided all entrances, designs, signs and show            R    R  R  R  R     
windows for such uses shall not be evident from the outside of the
building
Apparel or other textile products from textiles or other materials,
including hat bodies of fur, wool, felt, or similar products                             R  R
(manufacturing)
Architects                                                                     R  R  R  R  R     
Art galleries, not for profit                                        R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R     
Artists                                                                        R  R  R  R  R     
Asphalt plant and batching facilities                                                    CU CU
Assembly of automobile, bicycle, carriage, engine (rebuilt)                              CU R
motorcycle, trailer, truck, wagon, including parts
Assisted living facilities                                               *  R  R    CU R  CU R     
Athletic or sports equipment, including balls, baskets, bats, cues,                      R  R
racquets, rods, or similar products (manufacturing)
Attorneys-at-law                                                               R  R  R  R  R     
Auction sales, except animals and tobacco (permanent structure)                  R  R  R       
Automated teller machine (ATM)                                             CU CU R  R  R  R  R  R  R
Automobile parking areas, public and private                               CU CU R  R  R  R  R  R  R
Automobile parts                                                                 R    R    R  R
Automobile and truck repair garages                                              R  CU R    R  R
Automobile sales agencies                                                        R  R  R       
Automobile service stations                                                      R  R  R       
Automobile washing stations                                                      R  CU R       
Aviaries and zoos                                                                CU CU CU   CU  
Awnings, metal (manufacturing)                                                           R  R
Banks or building and loan institutions                                        CU R  R  R  R     
Bakeries, retail (all products produced to be sold on the premises           CU R  R  R  R       
only)
Barber shops                                                                 CU CU R  R  R  CU    
Battery, storage (wet cell) (manufacturing)                                              CU R
Beauty shops                                                                 CU CU R  R  R  CU    
Bedding (mattress, pillow, quilt), including rebuilding or                               CU R
renovating (manufacturing)
Beverage, blending and bottling (manufacturing)                                          R  R
Beverage (nonalcoholic) (manufacturing)                                                  R  R
Bicycle sales and service                                                      R  R  R  R  CU    
Bingo hall                                                                       CU R  R       
Blacksmith                                                                           R    R  R
Boarding and lodging houses                                              CU R  R               
Boat manufacture and repair                                                              R  R
Book stores and stationary stores                                              CU R  R  R  CU    
Bookbinding                                                                          R    R  R
Botanical gardens                                                    CU CU CU CU CU CU R  R  R  R  R  R
Bowling alleys                                                                   CU R  R       
Box and crate                                                                            R  R
Brick                                                                                    CU R
Building materials (cement, lime, sand, gravel, lumber, and the                            R
like), storage and sales
Building materials, storage and sales provided all operations are                R    R    R   
totally enclosed in a building
Bus garage and repair shop                                                               R  R
Bus shelters                                                         CU CU CU CU CU R  R  R  R  R  R  R
Bus stations                                                                   CU R  R  R  CU    
Business schools                                                                 R  R  R  R     
Camping areas, public and private                                              CU CU CU CU   CU CU
Candy stores, retail sales on premises only                                    CU R  R  R       
Carpenter, cabinet making and pattern shops                                      R    R    R  R
Carpet, rug, mat (manufacturing)                                                         R  R
Carting and light local deliveries                                                   R    R  R
Cement (manufacturing)                                                                   CU R
Cemeteries, mausoleums, and crematories                              CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU
Check cashing facility                                                         CU R  R  R  CU    
Chemicals, including acetylene, acids, and derivatives, alcohol
(industrial), ammonia, aniline dyes, carbide, caustic soda,
cellulose and cellulose storage, chlorine, cleaning and polishing
preparations (nonsoap), dressings and blackings, creosote,                                 R
dyestuffs, exterminating agents and poisons, hydrogen and oxygen,
plastic materials, and synthetic rosins, potash, pyroxylin, tar
products, turpentine and resin, and solvent-extracting
Chemicals (packaging only)                                                               R  R
Chiropodists                                                                   R  R  R  R  R     
Chiropractors                                                                  R  R  R  R  R     
Churches, and parish halls, temples, convents, and monasteries       CU CU CU CU CU R  R  R  R  R     
Circus and carnival grounds                                                          CU   CU CU
Clay products                                                                            CU R
Clay, stone, glass products                                                              CU R
Clay products of handicraft nature including ceramics, pottery, tile                     CU R
(glazed), or similar products
Coal and coke, storage and sales                                                         CU R
Collection office                                                              CU R  R  R  R     
Colleges, schools, and institutions of learning (except trade,       CU CU CU CU CU R  R  R  R  R     
business, or industrial schools), not for profit
Commercial lakes                                                               CU CU CU CU CU CU CU
Commercial hog feeding yards                                                               CU
Community buildings                                                              R  R  R  R     
Composting facility                                                                      CU R
Concession stand (temporary)                                                   R  R  R  R    R   
Concrete products (except central mixing and proportioning plants)                         R
Concrete, central mixing and proportioning plant                                         CU R
Condominiums                                                         CU CU *  *  *               
Confectionery or candy stores, retail (all products produced to be               R  R  R  CU    
sold on the premises only)
Convention centers                                                               R  R  R    CU  
Convenient stores                                                              R  R  R  R  R  CU  
Copy shop                                                                      CU R  R  R  R     
Cosmetics or toiletries (manufacturing)                                                  R  R
Country clubs                                                        CU CU CU CU CU R  R  R  R  R     
Crisis counseling center                                             CU CU CU CU CU R  R  R  R  R     
Dance halls                                                                      R  R  R       
Dancing instruction                                                              R  R  R       
Day care centers, day nurseries, nursery schools, and kindergartens  CU CU CU CU CU R  R  R  R  R     
Dentists                                                                       R  R  R  R       
Department stores                                                                R  R         
Detoxification facility                                                          CU CU CU CU CU CU
Distillation, manufacture, or refinement of coal, tar, asphalt, or                         R
asphalt products
Distilleries, breweries, and nonindustrial alcoholic spirits                               R
Domestic violence shelter or emergency and protective shelter        CU CU CU CU CU R  R  R  R  R     
Dressmaking or millinery shops                                                   R  R  R    R  R
Drive-in theaters                                                                CU   R       
Drug stores or sundries stores                                                 R  R  R  R  R     
Dry cleaning, dyeing, pressing, and laundry; distributing stations
or retail business where no cleaning, dyeing, pressing, or laundry               R  R  R       
is done for other distributing stations or cleaning establishments
Dry goods and notion stores                                                      R  R  R       
Dwelling, two-family                                                     R  R  R  R  CU CU CU CU    
Electric appliance stores                                                        R  R  R       
Electric power and steam generating plants                                                 R
Electrical appliance and apparatus assembly (small), including fans,
fixtures, hot-plates, irons, mixers, motion picture equipment                      R  R    R  R
(home), phonographs, radios, television sets, toasters, toys, or
similar products, but not including electrical machinery
Electrical supplies, including cable or wire assemblies, batteries               R  R  R    R  R
(dry cell), insulation, lamps, switches, or similar supplies
Engraving, watchmaking, and jewelry manufacturing, where goods are               R  R  R  R  R  R
sold on premises
Equipment rental, where all activities are within a building                       R    R  R  R
Explosives (when not prohibited by other ordinances) and explosive
storage, including ammunition, fireworks, nitrating of cotton or                           CU
other materials, nitrates (manufactured and natural) of an explosive
nature, and storage of latter (manufacturing)
Exposition building or center                                                            CU R
Extraction and development of all gas and other hydrocarbon          CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU
substances
Fairgrounds                                                                              R  R
Farmers market                                                                 CU R  R  R  CU    
Fertilizer (organic and nonorganic), including fish, oils, manure,                       CU R
or peat
Film, photographic (manufacturing)                                                       CU R
Firearms (manufacturing)                                                                 R  R
Firework sales                                                                   CU   CU   CU  
Firework stand (temporary)                                                       R    R    R   
Flea market                                                                    CU R  CU R  CU    
Florist shops                                                                  R  R  R  R  R     
Flour, feed, grain (processing)                                                          CU R
Food processing including bakery products (wholesale), candy
manufacture, coffee, tea, and spices (processing and packaging),                         CU R
creamery and dairy operations, ice cream manufacture, macaroni and
noodle manufacture, oleomargarine (compounding and packaging only)
Food processing, including chewing gum, chocolate, cocoa and cocoa
products; condensed and evaporated milk, processing and canning;
flour, feed, and grain (packing, blending, and storage only); food
products except slaughtering of meats or preparation of fish for                         CU R
packing; fruit and vegetable processing (including canning,
preserving, drying, and freezing); gelatin products; glucose and
dextrine; malt products; meat products, packing and processing (no
slaughtering), yeast
Forge plans, drop hammer or pneumatic                                                      R
Foundries, ferrous or nonferrous, brass, bronze                                            R
Foundry products (electrical only)                                                         R
Fraternities and sororities                                              CU CU CU CU R  R  R  R     
Funeral homes                                                              CU CU CU R  R  R  R     
Fur finishing and fur goods, not including tanning, dyeing                       CU CU CU   R  R
Furniture (manufacturing)                                                                R  R
Furniture, storage                                                               R  R  R    R  R
Furniture, stores                                                                R  R  R       
Garages, public                                                                  R  R  R    R  R
Gift shop                                                                      R  R  R  R  R     
Golf courses; except miniature courses, driving ranges, or privately CU CU CU CU CU R  R  R  R  R  R  R
owned golf courses operated for commercial purposes
Golf driving ranges, miniature courses, privately owned golf courses     CU CU CU R  R  R  R  R  CU CU
operated for a commercial purpose
Governmental buildings, including armories, storage, maintenance,              CU R  R  R  R  R  R
and repair facilities
Governmentally owned or operated buildings or uses                             CU R  R  R  R  R  R
Grain blending and packaging, but not milling                                            CU R
Graphite or graphite products                                                    R    R    R  R
Greenhouse, commercial or industrial                                             CU   CU   R  R
Grocery stores, including fruit, meat, fish, and vegetable                       R  R  R       
Grocery stores where all merchandise is displayed and sold within an           R  R  R  R       
enclosed building
Group house                                                              CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU    
Hardware, products or tools, including bolts, brads, cutlery, door
knobs, drills, hinges, household items, locks, metal castings                            CU CU
(nonferrous), nails, needles and pins, nuts, plumbing appliances,
rivets, screws, spikes, staples, tools (hand), or similar products
Hardware stores                                                                  R  R  R    CU  
Health club and health spas                                                    CU R  R  R  R     
Heating, ventilating, cooking, and refrigerating supplies and                            R  R
appliances (manufacturing)
Heliport                                                                                 CU CU
Heliport (accessory to an otherwise permitted or conditional use)              CU CU CU CU CU CU CU
Homeless shelters                                                        CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU    
Home occupations                                                     CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU
Hosiery mill                                                                             CU R
Hospitals, institutions, nursing homes and homes for the infirm and  CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU    
aged
Hotels and motels                                                                R  R  R    CU CU
Household appliances, electrical and gas, including stoves,
refrigerators, washing machines, clothes dryers, and similar                             R  R
products (manufacturing)
Ice storage houses of not more than five-ton capacity                                    R  R
Implements, agricultural or farm (manufacturing)                                         R  R
Insecticides, fungicides, disinfectants, or related industrial or                          CU
household chemical compounds
Insecticides, fungicides, disinfectants, or related industrial or                          CU
household chemical compounds (blending only)
Insurance agents                                                               R  R  R  R  R     
Interior decorating shops                                                      R  R  R  R  R     
Iron or steel (ornamental), miscellaneous, fabrication or assembly,
including steel cabinets, doors, fencing, metal furniture, or
similar products; cleaning; grinding, heat treatment, metal                              CU R
finishing, plating, polishing, rust proofing, sharpening, or similar
processes
Jewelry                                                                            R  R  R     
Jewelry stores                                                                   R  R  R  R     
Kennels                                                                          CU   CU   CU R
Laboratories, research, experimental, or testing, but not including                  R  R  R  R
combustion type motor-testing
Land surveyors                                                                 R  R  R  R  R     
Landscape architects                                                           R  R  R  R  R     
Laundries                                                                        R  R  R    CU  
Laundries, or launderettes, self-service                                       R  R  R  R       
Laundering and dry cleaning pick-up shops and self-service (only)                R  R  R       
laundries
Lead oxide (manufacturing)                                                                 CU
Libraries, museums, historical buildings or grounds                  CU CU CU CU CU R  R  R  R  R  R  R
Lime, mixing and manufacturing                                                             CU
Limousine and taxi service                                                     CU R  R  R  CU    
Lumber yards                                                                         CU   R  R
Machine, tools, die, and gauge shops                                                     CU R
Machine tools, including metal lathes, metal presses, metal-stamping                     CU R
machines, woodworking machines, or the like
Machinery, heavy, including electrical, construction, mining, or                         CU R
agricultural manufacture, also repairs
Machines, business, including accounting machines, calculators, and                      R  R
card-counting equipment
Manufactured home park                                                                      
Manufactured home, sales, display, and storage                                   R    R    R   
Manufactured home subdivision                                                               
Marine, boat sale and rental                                                     R    R       
Meat and fish products, including slaughtering of meat or curing of                        R
fish, packing, and storage
Medical appliances, including braces, limbs, stretchers, supports,                       R  R
or similar appliances (manufacturing)
Metal and metal ores, reduction, refining, smelting, alloying,                             R
including blast furnaces, cupolas, and blooming mills
Metal alloys or foil, miscellaneous, including solder, pewter,                             R
brasses, bronzes, tin, lead, gold foils, or similar products
Metal casting or foundry products, heavy, including ornamental iron                        R
work, or similar products
Metal or metal products; treatment or processing including                                 R
enameling, japanning, lacquering, galvanizing, and (hot dip) plating
Microbrewery                                                                     CU CU CU   R  R
Microbrewery (accessory to a restaurant use)                                     R  R  R       
Millwork and planing                                                                       R
Minerals and earths (including sand-lime products), grinding,                              R
crushing, processing
Modular housing                                                      R  R  R  R  R  CU CU CU CU CU    
Monument and architectural stone, monument works (manufacturing)                           R
Monument sales                                                                   R    R       
Motor testing (internal combustion motors)                                                 R
Multiple-family dwellings                                                  R  R  R  CU R  CU R     
Music and vocal instructions                                                   R  R  R  R  R     
Music stores                                                                   R  R  R  R  R     
Newsstand                                                                      R  R  R  R  R     
Novelty products (from prepared materials) (manufacturing)                               R  R
Nurseries, retail                                                                R    R       
Nursery schools and day nurseries                                    CU CU CU CU CU R  R  R  R  R     
Office buildings                                                                 R  R  R  R     
Offices, professional or business and governmental                               R  R  R  R     
Opticians                                                                      R  R  R  R  R     
Optometrists                                                                   R  R  R  R  R     
Osteopaths                                                                     R  R  R  R  R     
Package liquor stores                                                            R  R  R       
Packaging, processing by compounding, blending, mixing, washing,
screening, crushing, grinding, and formulating, or any combination
thereof, and volume sales of materials and goods, provided the bulk
of the things packaged, processed, or sold is received or shipped                          R
via river transportation, but not permitting slaughterhouses,
stockyards, fertilizer plants, scrap metal processing or the
reduction of dead animals, fish, garbage, or offal
Paint and coatings, except manufacturing gun cotton, nitrocellulose                        R
lacquers, reactive resin cooking
Paint lacquer, shellac, and varnish, including calcimine, casein,                          R
colors, and pigments, thinners, and removers (manufacturing)
Paint stores                                                                     R  R  R       
Paper and paperboard (from papermaking machines) (manufacturing)                         CU R
Paper products, including bags, boxes, bulk goods, containers
(shipping), envelopes, interior packaging components, stationery,                        R  R
tubes, wallpaper, or similar products (manufacturing)
Parks, playgrounds, not for profit                                   R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R
Pet shops                                                                        R  R  R       
Petroleum or petroleum products, refining or storage, including                            CU
gasoline or other petroleum products
Photographic equipment (manufacturing)                                                   R  R
Photographic shops                                                               R  R  R       
Physicians                                                                     R  R  R  R  R     
Picnic area                                                          CU CU CU CU CU R  R  R  R  CU R  R
Planned Unit Development                                             CU CU *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *     
Plating, electrolytic process                                                            CU R
Plastic molding and shaping, excluding manufacturing or basic                            R  R
components
Plastic, raw                                                                               CU
Plumbing and heating shops, storage and sales provided all                       R  R  R    R   
operations are totally enclosed in a building
Portable storage (temporary)                                         R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R
Pottery and porcelain products (coal-fired) including bathroom or                          R
kitchen equipment, or similar products
Poultry or rabbit, packing or slaughtering (wholesale)                                     R
Precision instruments                                                                    R  R
Printing, lithographing establishments, if constructed to insure
that there is no noise or vibration evident out side the walls of                R  R  R    R  R
the building
Printing, publishing, engraving, including photoengraving                        R  R  R    R  R
Private clubs including community buildings, swimming, tennis, and   CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU  
other recreation
Professional consultant services                                               R  R  R  R  R     
Professional engineers                                                         R  R  R  R  R     
Professional offices                                                             R  R  R  R     
Public transportation passenger terminals                                        R  R  R       
Public utility buildings and facilities                                          R  R  R  R  R   
Pulp goods, pressed or molded (including paper-mache products                            CU R
Race track, animal                                                                         R
Race tracks for motor-powered vehicles                                                     R
Radio and television stores                                                      R  R  R       
Radio and television towers and antennas (manufacturing)                                 R  R
Radio signal sending and receiving towers and disks (commercial)     CU CU CU CU CU CU CU R  R  CU R  R
Radio station and studios                                                      CU R  R  R  CU CU CU
Railroad freight terminals and yards                                                     R  R
Real estate brokers                                                              R  R  R  R     
Recycling collection center                                                      CU   CU   R  R
Recycling plant                                                                          CU CU
Refractories                                                                             CU R
Refrigerated lockers                                                             R  R  R    R   
Refrigerating plants (manufacturing)                                                     CU R
Rendering, incineration or reduction, and storage of dead animals,
garbage, offal, or waste products (the entire operation to be                              CU
performed within a building)
Restaurants, where food and drink may be served or consumed, outside
as well as inside a building, including the drive-in restaurants                 CU CU R       
where all or part of the service or consumption is inside a vehicle
Restaurants with drive-through windows having prior approval by the              CU CU R       
agency responsible for traffic engineering
Restaurants and pubs (without drive-in facilities) if a minor,                   R  R  R       
integral part of an organized shopping center
Restaurants, tea rooms, cafes, where all customers are served at a               R  R. R  CU    
table or counter and where dancing or entertainment is excluded
Retail or wholesale stores or businesses not involving any kind of
manufacture, processing, or treatment of products other than that
which is clearly incidental to the business conducted on the
premises, and provided that no more than 50% of the floor area of                R  R  R       
the building is used in the manufacture, processing, or treatment of
products, and that such operations or products are not objectionable
due to noise, odor, dust, smoke, vibration, or other similar causes
Retail sales and consumer service establishments (not including
warehouse sales) dealing primarily with employees and visitors of                R  R  R       
establishments permitted as principal uses
Rifle, pistol, and skeet ranges                                                            CU
Roofing materials, building paper, and felt (including asphalt and                         R
composition) (manufacturing)
Row houses                                                           CU CU *  *  *               
Rubber (natural or synthetic), including tires, tubes, or similar                          R
products, gutta percha, chicle and balata processing (manufacturing)
Rubber stamp manufacturing, where products are sold on premises                    R  R    R   
Saddle and harness shops                                                         R  R  R       
Sanitary land fills and dumps                                                              CU
Scrap metal and scrap metal reduction, wastepaper, rags, junk,
salvage or similar operations, including auto wrecking provided the                      CU CU
entire operation is enclosed within a solid fence at least eight
feet high
Sewage disposal plants                                               CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU
Sheet metal products from metal stamping or extrusion, including
containers, costume jewelry, pins and needles, razor blades, bottle                      CU R
caps, buttons, kitchen utensils, or similar products (manufacturing)
Sheet metal shops                                                                CU CU CU   R  R
Shipping container (corrugated board, fiber or wire-bound)                               CU R
(manufacturing)
Shoe repair shops                                                              R  R  R  R       
Shoe stores                                                                      R  R  R       
Signs and displays (manufacturing)                                                       R  R
Sign painting                                                                    R  R  R    R  R</
                                                                                                      CE>
Silverware, plate or sterling (manufacturing)                                            R  R
Single-family dwelling                                               R  R  R  R  R  R  CU CU CU CU    
Skate parks                                                          CU CU CU CU CU CU R  R  R  CU CU CU
Skating rinks (ice or roller)                                                    R  R  R       
Slaughtering of animals or poultry                                                         R
Small engine repair                                                            CU R  CU R  CU    
Soaps or detergents, including washing or cleaning powder or soda,                       R  R
packaging only (manufacturing)
Soaps and soap products or detergents, including fat rendering,                            R
oils, vegetable and animals (nonedible) (manufacturing)
Sports arenas                                                                      CU     CU CU
Stamps (hand), stencils, and brands (manufacturing)                                      R  R
Stationary stores                                                                R  R  R  R     
Statuary and art goods, other than stone and concrete, including
church art, figurines, mannequins, religious art (excluding foundry                      R  R
operations) (manufacturing)
Steel works and rolling mills (ferrous) for steel, structural iron
and steel fabrication, and structural products, including bars,                            R
cables, girders, rails, wire rope, or similar products
Stockyards and feed lots                                                                   CU
Stone processing or stone products, including abrasives such as
wheels, stones, paper and cloth, asbestos products, stone screening,                       R
stone cutting, stoneworks, sand or lime products, or similar
processes or products
Storage garages, including repairing and servicing                               R  R  R    R  R
Storage yard                                                                             R  R
Storage of bituminous materials and petroleum products                                     R
Storage of coal and gas, yards and pockets                                                 R
Street vending and carting                                                     CU CU R  CU CU    
Sugar refining                                                                             R
Surgeons                                                                       R  R  R  R  R  R   
Synthetic fibers (manufacturing)                                                           R
Tailor                                                                         R  R  R  R  R     
Tattoo and body piercing                                                       CU R  CU R  CU    
Taverns, bars, and saloons                                                       R  R  R       
Telephone exchanges                                                              R  R  R       
Television station and studios                                                 CU R  R  R  CU CU CU
Temporary buildings, the uses of which are incidental to
construction operations being conducted on the same or adjoining lot
or track, and which shall be removed upon completion or abandonment  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R  R
of such construction, or upon the expiration of a period of two
years from the time of erection of such temporary building,
whichever is sooner
Temporary construction worker housing                                CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU
Textiles and fibers into fabric goods; spinning, weaving, knitting,
manufacturing, dyeing, printing and finishing of goods, yams, knit                       CU R
goods, treads and cordage
Textile bleaching, bleachery, bleaching products, including bluing                         R
Theaters, enclosed within a building                                             R  R  R       
Tire retreading and vulcanizing shop                                             CU   CU   R  R
Tobacco (including curing) or tobacco products                                       R    R  R
Tourist homes                                                                  R  R  R         
Towers (radio/TV receiving or transmitting) for noncommercial use,
in accordance with Federal Communications Commission or Federal      CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU CU
Aviation Agency requirements
Toy and hobby stores                                                           R  R  R  R       
Toys and games (manufacturing)                                                           R  R
Trade and business schools                                                       R  R  R  R  R   
Training schools (industrial and vocational) including internal                      R    R  R
combustion engine schools
Truck or transfer terminal, freight and motor freight stations                       CU   R  R
Upholstery and furniture repair shops                                            R  R  R    R  R
Upholstery and furniture repair shops, wholesale                                     R    R  R
Used car sales areas, provided that no repair or reconditioning of
automobiles or storage of parts shall be permitted except when                   R  R  R       
enclosed in a building
Variety stores                                                                   R  R  R       
Vehicles, children’s including baby carriages, bicycles, scooters,                     R  R
wagons, or similar vehicles (manufacturing)
Veterinary hospitals                                                             R    R       
Video rental                                                                   R  R  R  R  R     
Wall board, plasterboard, insulation, and composition flooring                             R
Warehouse, mini or self-storage                                                CU R  R  R  CU R  R
Warehouse, produce and storage                                                   CU   R    R  R
Warehouse, storage                                                               CU R  R    R  R
Wearing apparel shops                                                          R  R  R  R       
Welding shops                                                                    R    R    R   
Wholesale house and distributors                                                     R    R   
Wood or lumber processing, including sawmills, planing mills,
cooperage stock mills, excelsior or packing materials, plywood                             R
veneer, wood-preserving treatment, or similar products or processes
Wood products                                                                            CU R
Wood products, including furniture, baskets, boxes, crates, or                           CU R
similar products, and cooperage works (except cooperage stockmill)
Zero lot line                                                        CU CU R  R  R               
 
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 9-23-2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
   
I.   ANNEXATIONS
   
II.   REZONING
   
III.   BONDS
   
IV.   STREET CLOSINGS
   
V.   STREET NAME CHANGES
   
VI.   AGREEMENTS
   
VII.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             - -         Annexes property located at the intersection of 171
                          and U.S. Highway 79
2011-7        - -         Annexes property located at the intersection of 181
                          and U.S. Highway 79
2011-17       - -         Annexes property located north of the centerline of
                          U.S. Highway 79
2002-C-4      6-6-2002    Annexing approximately 345.93 acres located generally
                          west of the city limits
2003-002C2    5-21-2003   Amends Ord. 2003-002C (annexed 237.261 acres west of
                          the city limits)
2014-1        4- -2014    Annexes a 13.214-acre tract of land adjacent to the
                          north side of U.S. Highway 79
2017-1        4-11-2017   Annexes a 13.883-acre tract of land
2018-8        5-29-2018   Annexes a 143.170-acre tract of land, a 2.746- acre
                          tract of land and a 4.6-acre tract of land
2018-10       6-25-2018   Annexes a 0.230-acre tract of land and a 147.770-acre
                          tract of land
2019-13       12-10-2019  Annexes a 1.24-acre tract of land lying adjacent to
                          Graysville Road and adjacent to Highway 181
2019-14       12-10-2019  Annexes a 29.668-acre tract of land
2022-5        6-27-2022   Annexes a 159.757-acre tract and a 3.971-acre tract
                          lying adjacent to the north side of U.S. Highway 79
                          Annexes a 45.856-acre tract of land lying adjacent to
2023-5        7-14-2023   the present city boundaries north of U.S. Highway 79
                          and south of Kentucky Highway 294
2024-02       2-21-2024   TSO, Table I
2024-03       3-12-2024   TSO, Table I
                         
 
TABLE II: REZONING
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2009-C-6      - -         Land rezoned from R-1 to R-2
2011-12       - -         Rezones land from AG to B-3
2011-10       11-15-2011  Rezones land from AG to B-3
2011-11       11-15-2011  Rezoning from R-2 to B-1
2011-12       11-15-2011  Land rezoned from AG to B-3
2011-13       11-15-2011  Rezones land from AG to R-3
2011-14       11-15-2011  Rezones land from AG to R-3
2017-11       10-10-2017  Rezones property from B-4 and R-3 to I-2
2019-5        2-12-2019   Land rezoned from I-1 to R-4
2019-6        2-12-2019   Rezones land from I-1 to B-4
2021-3        6-8-2021    Rezones land from no zone to I-1
2021-4        6-8-2021    Rezones land from no zone to B-4
2021-5        6-8-2021    Rezones land from no zone to B-4
2021-6        6-8-2021    Rezones land from no zone to I-2
                         
 
TABLE III: BONDS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
                             Authorizing and approving an escrow trust
                             agreement with Star Bank, N.A. to provide for the
Res. 1994-W-1 9-6-1994       defeasance of the outstanding principal amount of
                             city waterworks revenue bonds, dated February 1,
                             1964
                             Authorizing and providing for issuance and sale of
Ord. –      6-11-2019      a $583,000 sewer system revenue bond for financing
                             the cost of the construction of the existing sewer
                             system
                            
 
TABLE IV: STREET CLOSINGS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
2008-C-4      - -            Closes a portion of Cherry Street and a portion of
                             First (Front) Street
                             Closing the street commonly known as Kentucky
1994-C-2      10-3-1994      Street and running from the intersection of Park
                             Street and Kentucky Street in a northerly
                             direction to the end of said street
2012-4        9-18-2012      Closes MIMMS alley
2020-5        7-14-2020      Closing a 0.07-acre section of an unimproved alley
                             running east from Kendall Street
2020-6        9-8-2020       Closing a 0.05-acre section of an unimproved alley
                             running east from Norris Street
                            
 
TABLE V: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord.Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. -       9-6-1994    Changing the name of Winter Street to Gower Street
99-R-1       5-20-1999   Changing the name of Waste Water Road to Cypress Lane
                        
 
TABLE VI: AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-insurance, insurance and the
             investment of public funds among various cities, urban-county governments and
1993- 5-18-  other public agencies within the commonwealth; authorizing the execution of the
C-1   1993   “interlocal cooperation agreement to establish the Kentucky Municipal Risk
             Management Association;” approving the articles of association and bylaws of
             the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management Association.
Res.  6-6-   Authorizing the city’s participation in the Fort Campbell Military - Civilian
CR-1  1994   Joint Compatible Land Use Study and agreeing to pay its proportionate local
             cash share for the Joint Compatible Land Use Study in the amount of $200
Res.  5-1-   Agreement to participate in the formation, acquisition and operation of a joint
-     1995   Logan and Todd County Water Commission
Res.  7-11-  Continuing participation in the Pennyrile Narcotics Task Force, and authorizing
-     1995   the city to provide $600 in support of the organization for the period of July
             1, 1995 through June 30, 1996
2000- 4-11-  Authorizing execution of a water purchase agreement with the Logan Todd
W-1   2000   Regional Water Commission
2017- 10-10- Adopts a natural gas/Kentucky Energy Systems, LLC pass-through adjustment
10    2017   policy
4     4-16-  Interlocal agreement between the city and the county; financing a grant for
      2018   alleviating conditions of unemployment
2020- 11-17- Creates the Todd County Natural Gas District
10    2020
            
 
TABLE VII: FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2011-4        - -         Extends expiration date of the cable television
                          franchise; Mediacom Southeast LLC
2011-3        6-22-2011   Grants an exclusive gas distribution franchise to
                          Kentucky Energy Systems, LLC
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 2002 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section             Code Section
6.050                   32.48
6.955 to 6.975          33.04
Chapter 13A             93.02
Chapter 13B             93.06
Chapter 31              34.26
41.240(4)               33.05
42.450 to 42.495        33.04
43.050                  33.04
Chapter 45A             34.26
Chapter 56              34.26
Chapter 61              31.59,
                        32.21
61.168                  34.26
61.800 through 61.850   38.24
61.823(2) to (4)        91.20
61.870 to 61.884        34.27
61.870(1)               34.01
61.870(2)               34.01
61.870(3)               34.01
61.870(4)               34.01
61.870(5)               34.01
61.870(6)               34.01
61.870(7)               34.01
61.870(8)               34.01
61.872(1)-(3)           34.15
61.872(4)               34.16
61.872(5)               34.17
61.872(6)               34.18
61.874(1)               34.22
61.874(2)               34.22
61.874(3)               34.23
61.874(4)               34.23
61.874(5)               34.24
61.874(6)               34.25
61.878                  34.01
61.878(1)               34.26
61.878(2)               34.26
61.878(3)               34.26
61.878(4)               34.26
61.878(5)               34.26
61.880(1)               34.19,
                        34.26
61.884                  34.21
62.060                  31.04
62.060 et seq.          115.05
65.067                  31.04
65.120                  Ch. 72
65.8801 through 65.8839 38.20,
                        38.21
65.8804(9)              92.20
65.8805(4)              92.21
65.8815(5)              38.24
65.8815(6)              38.24
65.8840(7)              92.21
66.660                  91.06
82.082                  151.01
82.700 et seq.          38.20
83A.010 to 83A.120      30.01
83A.010(5)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(8)              10.02
83A.030(1)              30.02
83A.040(1)              31.21
83A.040(2)(a)           31.21
83A.040(6)              31.21
83A.040(2)(c)           31.21
83A.040(2)(d)           31.21
83A.040(3)              31.21
83A.040(4)              32.01
83A.040(5)              32.02
83A.040(6)              32.02
83A.040(7)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(8)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(9)              31.03,
                        32.20
83A.045                 31.20
83A.050                 32.01
83A.060(b)              32.42
83A.060(1)              32.35
83A.060(2)              32.36
83A.060(3)              32.37
83A.060(4)              32.38
83A.060(5)              32.40
83A.060(6)              32.22
83A.060(7)              32.38
83A.060(8)              32.41
83A.060(8)(a)           32.42
83A.060(9)              32.43
83A.060(10)             32.44
83A.060(11)             32.45
83A.060(12)             32.46
83A.060(13)             32.46
83A.060(14)             32.47
83A.060(15)             32.48
83A.065                 10.99
83A.070                 31.02
83A.070(1)              31.02
83A.070(2)              31.02
83A.070(3)              31.02
83A.075                 31.02
83A.080(1)              31.35
83A.080(2)              31.35
83A.080(3)              31.03,
                        31.35
83A.085                 31.36
83A.130(1)              30.01
83A.130(2)              30.02
83A.130(3)              31.21
83A.130(4)              31.21
83A.130(5)              32.20
83A.130(6)              32.39
83A.130(7)              31.21
83A.130(8)              31.21
83A.130(9)              31.21
83A.130(10)             31.21
83A.130(11)             32.03,
                        32.21
83A.130(12)             32.03
83A.130(13)             32.03
83A.175                 32.02
91A.010(4)              10.02
91A.010(7)              33.01
91A.010(8)              10.02
91A.020                 33.02
91A.030                 33.03
91A.040                 33.04
91A.050                 33.04
91A.060                 33.05
91A.080(2)              113.02
91A.080(3)              113.03
91A.080(8)              113.04,
                        113.05
91A.080(9)              113.04
91A.080(10)             113.03
91A.200                 33.21
91A.210                 33.20
91A.220                 33.21
91A.230                 33.22
91A.240                 33.23
91A.250                 33.24
91A.260                 33.25
91A.270                 33.26
91A.280                 33.27
91A.290                 33.28
91A.350                 110.55
91A.360                 110.55
91A.390(a),(c)          110.55
91A.400                 110.55
92.300(2),(3)           110.06
Chapter 100             153.016,
                        153.207
100.113                 38.01
100.117                 38.01
100.157                 38.03
100.203                 153.208
100.203(2)              153.203
100.211                 153.202
100.213                 153.203
100.217                 153.263
100.231                 153.203,
                        153.262
100.233                 153.203,
                        153.262
100.237                 153.203,
                        153.262
100.241                 153.203,
                        153.262
100.243                 153.262
100.247                 153.203,
                        153.262
100.251                 153.203,
                        153.262
100.329                 153.224
100.348                 153.056
Chapter 107             33.21
118.305(7)              32.02
131.010(6)              113.04
132.285                 35.01
Chapter 134             35.23
134.420(1)              35.20
134.800                 35.04
134.810                 35.04
139.200                 93.03
Chapter 151             151.05
151.250                 151.05,
                        151.06
Chapter 154             34.26
174.100                 91.20
174.100(1)              91.21
174.100(2)              91.22
174.100(3)              91.23
174.100(4)              91.24
174.100(5)              91.25
178.290                 91.06
186A.145                72.27
186A.190                72.27
189.020                 71.032
189.285                 73.02
189.287                 73.01
189.290                 71.030
189.330(8)              71.002
189.338                 70.15
189.450(5)              72.03
189.450(6)              72.03
189.580                 71.015
189.725                 72.08
189.920(3)              36.04
189.930                 71.031
189.990                 70.15,
                        72.99
189.990(1)              72.99
Chapter 198B            150.03
198B.070                150.03
198B.990(1)             150.99
Chapter 211             50.06
219.320                 153.056
226.010                 112.01
226.020                 112.02
226.030                 112.07
226.040                 112.03
226.050                 112.04
226.060                 112.08
226.070                 112.03
226.080                 112.05
226.090                 112.06
226.100                 112.08
226.990(1)              112.99
226.990(3)              112.99
227.330(6)              93.03
227.570                 153.056
227.700                 93.01
227.700 to 227.750      93.01,
                        93.06
227.702                 93.01,
                        93.02
227.704                 93.01
227.706                 93.01
227.708                 93.01
227.710                 93.02
227.715                 93.03
227.720                 93.04
227.730                 93.05
227.750                 93.06
227.990(1)              150.99
227.990(4)              93.99
238.500 through 238.995 110.56
238.505                 110.56
238.995                 110.56
                        115.02,
Chapter 241             115.04,
                        115.05
241.160                 115.05
Chapter 243             115.02,
                        115.04
243.100                 115.35
243.450                 115.35
Chapter 244             115.02,
                        115.04
257.010                 90.01
257.100                 90.07
Chapter 258             90.20,
                        90.28
258.215                 90.26
277.200                 71.070
Chapter 281             72.26
281.920 through 281.936 72.27
281.926                 72.27
281.928                 72.27
281.928(1)              72.27
281.932                 72.27
318.990                 150.99
Chapter 342             110.23
Chapter 350             151.05
359.230                 72.27
376.275(1)              72.27
376.275(2)              72.27
411.500 through 411.570 Ch. 92
                        33.04,
                        33.24,
Chapter 424             33.25,
                        92.20,
                        110.56
424.190(2)              33.04
424.220                 33.04
436.600                 90.05,
                        90.99
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(23)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.010(55)             10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.020(1)              10.03
446.020(2)              10.03
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03
446.080(3)              10.03
446.080(4)              10.03
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
510.010(1)              131.01
520.010                 34.01
525.125                 90.03,
                        90.04
                        90.03,
525.130                 90.04,
                        90.99
525.135                 90.04
534.040(2)(c)           10.99
                        
 
REFERENCES TO 2002 CODE
2002 Code Section 2020 Code Section
2002 Code Section 2020 Code Section
31.20             31.20
32.20             32.21
32.21             32.22
35.02             35.02
35.03             35.03
35.30             35.20
35.31             35.21
35.32             35.22
35.33             35.23
36.01             36.01
36.02             36.02
36.03             36.03
36.04             36.04
36.05             36.05
37.01             37.01
37.02             37.02
37.03             37.03
53.01             53.01
53.05             53.15
53.06             53.16
53.07             53.17
53.08             53.18
53.15             53.30
53.16             53.31
53.17             53.32
53.18             53.33
53.19             53.34
53.20             53.35
53.21             53.36
53.22             53.37
71.40             71.045
71.41             71.046
71.42             71.047
71.43             71.048
71.44             71.049
71.45             71.050
71.46             71.051
71.47             71.052
71.48             71.053
71.49             71.054
71.50             71.055
71.51             71.056
71.60             71.070
71.99             71.999
90.15             90.20
90.16             90.21
90.17             90.22
90.18             90.23
90.19             90.24
90.20             90.25
90.21             90.26
90.22             90.27
90.23             90.28
90.24             90.29
90.25             90.30
90.26             90.45
90.27             90.45
90.28             90.99
92.01             92.01
92.02             92.02
92.03             92.03
92.04             92.04
92.05             92.05
92.06             92.06
92.15             92.20
92.16             92.21
92.17             92.22
92.18             92.23
92.99             92.99
93.22             93.21
95.99             95.99
110.01            110.01
110.02            110.02
110.03            110.03
110.04            110.04
110.05            110.05
110.06            110.06
110.15            110.20
110.16            110.21
110.17            110.22
110.18            110.23
110.19            110.24
110.20            110.25
110.21            110.26
110.22            110.27
110.23            110.28
110.35            110.40
110.36            110.41
110.37            110.42
110.38            110.43
110.39            110.44
110.99            110.99
113.01            113.01
113.02            113.02
113.03            113.03
113.04            113.04
113.05            113.05
114.01            114.01
114.02            114.02
114.03            114.03
114.99            114.99
150.01            150.01
150.02            150.02
150.03            150.03
150.04            150.04
150.99            150.99
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section<
CR-1     6-6-1994    TSO, Table VI
-        9-6-1994    TSO, Table V
1994-W-1 9-6-1994    TSO, Table III
-        5-1-1995    TSO, Table VI
-        7-11-1995   TSO, Table VI
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
-           - -         TSO, Table I
-           - -         71.070
-           - -         90.28
-           - -         114.01 -
                        114.03
                        54.01,
C-5         - -         54.02,
                        54.99
2004C-02    - -         113.03
2008-C-4    - -         TSO, Table IV
2009-C-6    - -         TSO, Table II
2011-1      - -         38.01 -
                        38.07
2011-4      - -         TSO, Table VII
2011-7      - -         TSO, Table I
2011-12     - -         TSO, Table II
2011-17     - -         TSO, Table I
1990-C-3    9-13-1990   36.04
C-1-91      6-4-1991    113.01 -
                        113.05
1991-C-2    9-12-1991   35.02,
                        35.03
1992-4-C    9-14-1992   90.99
1993-C-1    5-18-1993   TSO, Table VI
1994-C-4    - -1994     37.02
                        110.01 -
                        110.06,
                        110.20 -
1994-C-2    6-6-1994    110.28,
                        110.40 -
                        110.44,
                        110.99
1994-C-2    10-3-1994   TSO, Table IV
1995-C-6    5-1-1995    71.045 - 71.057
                        92.01 -
                        92.07,
1995-C-5    5-1-1995    92.20 -
                        92.23,
                        92.99
-           5- -1996    37.01
96-C-7      12-12-1996  32.21
1998-C9-8-1 8-12-1998   37.03
99-C-3      1-12-1999   93.21
                        150.01,
99-C-2      1-12-1999   150.03,
                        150.04
                        35.02,
99-C-01     3-12-1999   35.03,
                        35.20 -
                        35.23
99-R-1      5-20-1999   TSO, Table V
                        53.01,
                        53.15 -
1999 NG-1   5-20-1999   53.18,
                        53.30 -
                        53.37
1999-P-01   10-26-1999  36.01 -
                        36.03
                        90.20 -
                        90.30,
1999-C-4    10-26-1999  90.45,
                        90.46,
                        90.99
2000-W-1    4-11-2000   TSO, Table VI
2000-C-2    9-12-2000   32.20
2001 NG-1   10-18-2001  53.30
2002-C-1    1-8-2002    114.03,
                        114.99
2002-C-4    6-6-2002    TSO, Table I
2002-C06    12-10-2002  31.05
2003-002C2  5-21-2003   TSO, Table I
2004-C01    3-9-2004    131.01,
                        131.99
2004C-02    4-28-2004   113.03
2004-C04A   6-28-2004   110.56
                        151.01 -
                        151.13,
                        151.25 -
-           6-15-2010   151.27,
                        151.35 -
                        151.41,
                        151.50
2011-2      5-9-2011    70.22,
                        70.99
2011-3      6-22-2011   TSO, Table VII
2011-8      10-11-2011  95.01 -
                        95.07
2011-10     11-15-2011  TSO, Table II
2011-11     11-15-2011  TSO, Table II
2011-12     11-15-2011  TSO, Table II
2011-13     11-15-2011  TSO, Table II
2011-14     11-15-2011  TSO, Table II
2012-4      9-18-2012   TSO, Table IV
                        153.001 -
                        153.004,
                        153.015 -
                        153.016,
                        153.030 -
                        153.038,
                        153.050 -
                        153.064,
                        153.075 -
                        153.084,
                        153.095 -
                        153.103,
                        153.115 -
                        153.118,
2013-2      2-7-2013    153.130 -
                        153.139,
                        153.150 -
                        153.156,
                        153.170 -
                        153.188,
                        153.200 -
                        153.209,
                        153.220 -
                        153.226,
                        153.240 -
                        153.246,
                        153.260 -
                        153.272,
                        153.999
2013-01     2-12-2013   110.55
2013-5      9-10-2013   90.09,
                        90.99
2013-7      9-10-2013   90.08,
                        90.99
2013-8      10-8-2013   31.50 -
                        31.60
2014-1      4- -2014    TSO, Table I
2015-6      8-11-2015   150.05
2015-8      10-13-2015  150.05
                        51.01 -
2015-9      11-10-2015  51.04,
                        51.15 -
                        51.33
2017-1      4-11-2017   TSO, Table I
                        115.01 -
                        115.15,
2017-5      6-13-2017   115.30 -
                        115.44,
                        115.99
                        130.01 -
2017-8      9-12-2017   130.04,
                        130.99
2017-9      10-10-2017  31.21
2017-10     10-10-2017  TSO, Table VI
2017-11     10-10-2017  TSO, Table II
2017-12     11-20-2017  31.20
2018-1      2-13-2018   51.32
2018-3      2-28-2018   110.20,
                        110.23
4           4-16-2018   TSO, Table VI
2018-5      4-18-2018   31.02
                        50.06,
2018-7      5-23-2018   50.20 -
                        50.29,
                        50.99
2018-8      5-29-2018   TSO, Table I
2018-10     6-25-2018   TSO, Table I
2019-2      1-8-2019    152.01
2019-4      1-8-2019    153.016
2019-5      2-12-2019   TSO, Table II
2019-6      2-12-2019   TSO, Table II
2019-9      6-11-2019   38.20 -
                        38.33
-           6-11-2019   TSO, Table III
2019-10     8-13-2019   52.01
2019-13     12-10-2019  TSO, Table I
2019-14     12-10-2019  TSO, Table I
2020-1      1-14-2020   150.06,
                        150.99
2020-3      3-12-2020   51.18
2020-5      7-14-2020   TSO, Table IV
2020-6      9-8-2020    TSO, Table IV
2020-8      11-10-2020  38.20 -
                        38.33
2020-9      11-10-2020  Adopting Ordinance
2020-10     11-17-2020  TSO, Table VI
2021-1      2-9-2021    51.18
2021-3      6-8-2021    TSO, Table II
2021-4      6-8-2021    TSO, Table II
2021-5      6-8-2021    TSO, Table II
2021-6      6-8-2021    TSO, Table II
2021-9      9-23-2021   Chapter 153, App. A
2022-2      1-11-2022   38.24
2022-4      5-23-2022   50.23,
                        50.99
2022-5      6-27-2022   TSO, Table I
                        50.01 -
2022-6      6-29-2022   50.06,
                        50.23,
                        50.99
                        50.03 -
2023-1      5-9-2023    50.05,
                        50.23
2023-3      6-21-2023   51.32
2023-5      7-14-2023   TSO, Table I
                        53.15 -
                        53.17,
2023-6      10-10-2023  53.30,
                        53.31,
                        53.33
2023-7      - -         38.24
2024-01     1-9-2024    52.01
2024-02     2-21-2024   TSO, Table I
2024-03     3-12-2024   TSO, Table I
2024-8      9-17-2024   50.23
                       
 
