HICKORY HILL, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2024 S-1, current through:
Ordinance 3-2022-23, passed 10-19-2022
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Hickory Hill Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Title heads, chapter heads, and section and division heads or
titles, and explanatory notes and cross references, do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Hickory Hill irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMMISSION. The City Commission.
(KRS 83A.010(3))
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10)
   COUNTY. Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Commission.
(KRS 83A.010(6), KRS 91A.010(4))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Commission.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Commissioner.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Hickory Hill, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables, coroners, jailers,
metropolitan and urban-county government correctional officers, marshals,
police officers, and other persons with similar authority to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of City
Commission.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases, and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of City Commission in enacting
any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that City
Commission would not have enacted the remaining parts without the
unconstitutional part; or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are
incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of
City Commission.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of City Commission.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of City Commission as long as it takes effect prior to the
effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
City Commission which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of City Commission, as long as
the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of City Commission repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment, as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Commission, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall
remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until City Commission shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in § 32.37 should be used by the
city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section, or division of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
      (KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
      or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY ORGANIZATION
      
31.   CITY POLICIES
      
32.   PROCEDURE FOR ADOPTING ORDINANCES
      
33.   COMMISSION PLAN
      
34.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
35.   CITY COMMISSION
      
36.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
37.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
38.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: CITY ORGANIZATION
Section
   
30.01   City Clerk
   
30.02   Conduct of elections
   
30.03   Regular monthly meetings
§ 30.01 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The office of the City Clerk be established; said Clerk shall be
appointed by the Commission.
   (B)   The Clerk shall record the minutes of the monthly meetings of the City
Commission, shall have the care and custody of the minute and ordinance books
of the city, and shall have the care and custody of a record of all
correspondence with the city.
   (C)   The Clerk shall take the oath of office given to all Commissioners.
   (D)   The Clerk shall serve without bond.
(Ord. 2-1984, passed 3-6-1984)
§ 30.02 CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS.
   The elections of city officers for the city shall be conducted pursuant to
the KRS 83A.045, 83A.170, and 83A.175.
(Ord. 4-1992-93, passed 1-21-1993)
§ 30.03 REGULAR MONTHLY MEETINGS.
   The regular monthly meeting of the City Commission shall be held on the
third Wednesday of each month at 7:15 p.m. at Watkins Memorial United Methodist
Church.
(Ord. 3-2002-03, passed 4-8-2003)
CHAPTER 31: CITY POLICIES
Section
Investment Policy
   
31.01   General provisions
   
31.02   Definitions
   
31.03   Scope of the policy
   
31.04   Investment objectives
   
31.05   Investment authority
   
31.06   Investment controls
   
31.07   Safekeeping and custody procedures
   
31.08   Prudent person rule
   
31.09   Authorized investments
   
31.10   Diversification
   
31.11   Timing of investment
   
31.12   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
31.13   Collateral
   
31.14   Investment reporting
   
31.15   Audit
   
31.16   Adoption and amendments
   
31.17   Prior investments
Code of Ethics
   
31.30   Definitions
   
31.31   Ethical duties and standards of conduct
   
31.32   Conflicts of interest
   
31.33   Financial disclosure statements
   
31.34   Enforcement
 
   
31.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 92
   Property maintenance, see
Chapter 90
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 31.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   It is the policy of the city to invest city funds in a manner which will
provide the highest investment return in conjunction with the security of
principal and maintenance of daily cash flow demands. All investments of city
funds shall be in conformity with federal, state, and local law governing the
investment of public funds.
(Ord. 1B-1994, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEARER PAPER. Commercial paper is which is negotiable upon delivery by any
party in possession or which does not designate a specific party by whom it is
negotiable.
   CITY. The City of Hickory Hill, Kentucky.
   CITY FUNDS. Any revenues, moneys, accounts payable, notes, obligations,
bonds, or other monetary funds lawfully collected and/or received by the city
subject to its control and jurisdiction.
   COLLATERAL. As used in commercial transactions, COLLATERAL means the
property subject to a security interest.
   FINANCIAL ASSETS. All monetary assets held directly by the city as accounted
for in the city’s annual financial report or budget, including moneys existing
in all outstanding or future funds.
   INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO. The entire group of securities or other investments
held by the city at any point.
(Ord. 1B-1994, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.03 SCOPE OF THE POLICY.
   The city’s investment policy applies to the investment of all financial
assets, except those held and invested by trustees or fiscal agents for or on
behalf of the city.
(Ord. 1B-1994, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.04 INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES.
   The city’s primary objectives as to the investment of its funds are as
follows.
   (A)   Safety. Investment shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. To attain this
objective, diversification of the investment portfolio is required in order
that potential losses on individual investments do not exceed the income
generated from the remainder of the portfolio.
   (B)   Liquidity. The city’s investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently
liquid to enable the city to meet all operating requirements which might be
reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Return on investment. In consideration of the other investment
objectives, the city’s investment portfolio shall be maintained so as to attain
a reasonable market rate of return in light of the prevailing economic
circumstances.
(Ord. 1B-1994, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.05 INVESTMENT AUTHORITY.
   It shall be the duty of the City Treasurer to act under the authority of
this order and provide for the investment and oversight of the city’s funds.
The City Treasurer shall perform these duties subject to the approval of the
City Commission. The City Treasurer shall be ultimately responsible for all
transactions undertaken and shall maintain all records related to the city’s
investment program.
(Ord. 1B-1994, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.06 INVESTMENT CONTROLS.
   The City Treasurer shall establish a system of controls, subject to the
approval of the City Commission, to regulate the investment activities of any
subordinate officials and employees. The system shall be designed to prevent
and control losses of public funds arising from fraud, employee error,
misrepresentation by third parties, unanticipated changes in financial markets,
or imprudent actions by officers or employees. To this extent, no one person
acting alone shall have the power, opportunity, or ability to disburse any city
funds for investment purposes without the prior written authorization of the
City Treasurer.
(Ord. 1B-1994, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.07 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY PROCEDURES.
   To protect against potential fraud and embezzlement, investment assets shall
be secured through third-party custody and safekeeping procedures. Bearer paper
shall be held only through third-party institutions. The City Treasurer and any
other officers or employees of the city authorized to engage in investment
transactions shall be bonded in an amount established by the City Commission.
Collateralized securities, such as repurchase agreements, shall be purchased
using the delivery versus payment procedure. Money market mutual funds used for
investments must provide for independent custodians of their portfolios end
delivery versus payment procedures on their portfolio securities.
(Ord. 1B-1994, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.08 PRUDENT PERSON RULE.
   (A)   The actions of the City Treasurer in the performance of his or her
duties under this subchapter shall be evaluated using the “prudent person”
standard. Investments shall be made with the same judgment and care under the
prevailing circumstances which persons of ordinary prudence, discretion, and
intelligence might exercise in the management of their own financial affairs.
   (B)   The City Treasurer acting in accordance with this subchapter and
exercising due diligence under the prudent person rule shall be relieved of
personal liability for an individual investment’s performance.
(Ord. 1B-1994, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.09 AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   The City Treasurer may invest and reinvest city funds in any of the
obligations, contracts, certificates of deposit, banker’s acceptances,
commercial papers, bonds, certificates of indebtedness, securities, and/or
mutual funds as set forth and in accordance with KRS 66.480; provided such
investments are made in consideration of the limitations set forth in KRS
66.480(2).
(Ord. 1B-1994, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.10 DIVERSIFICATION.
   In recognition of the inherent level of risk involved with any certain
investment opportunity, the city’s funds shall be diversified by security type
and institution. With the exception of fully insured investments, fully
collateralized investments, or authorized investment pools, no more than 30% of
the city’s total investment portfolio shall be invested in a single security
type or with a single financial institution.
(Ord. 1B-1994, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.11 TIMING OF INVESTMENT.
   To the extent possible, the city will attempt to match its investments with
anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a specific cash flow
need, the city’s funds should not be invested in securities maturing more than
five years from the date of purchase. However, the city may collateralize its
repurchase agreements using longer-dated investments not to exceed ten years to
maturity. Reserve funds may be invested in securities exceeding 20 years, if
maturity of the investments are made to coincide as nearly as practicable with
the expected use of the funds.
(Ord. 1B-1994, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.12 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   All financial institutions and broker/dealers who desire to provide
investment services to the city shall supply the City Treasurer with
information sufficient to adequately evaluate the institution and answer any
and all inquiries posed by the City Treasurer or City Commission, including the
following information: audited financial statements; regulatory reports on
financial condition; written memoranda of agreement for the deposit of public
funds or trading resolutions, as appropriate; and any additional information
considered necessary to allow the City Treasurer to evaluate the
creditworthiness of the institution.
(Ord. 1B-1994, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.13 COLLATERAL.
   It is the policy of the city to require that all cash and investments
maintained in any financial institution named as a depositary be collateralized
at a level equal to or greater than 50% of the market value of principal, plus
accrued interest, absent specific approval from the City Commission. Collateral
shall be limited to the types of instruments authorized as collateral for state
funds under KRS 41.240.
(Ord. 1B-1994, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.14 INVESTMENT REPORTING.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall prepare and submit a written report on a
quarterly basis to the City Commission regarding the status of the city’s
investment program. As to each investment, the quarterly report shall include
the following information:
      (1)   Name of financial institution from which the investment was
purchased or in which assets are deposited;
      (2)   Type of investment;
      (3)   Certificate or other reference number, if applicable;
      (4)   Percentage yield on an annualized basis;
      (5)   Purchase date, purchase price, and maturity date;
      (6)   Current market value of the investment; and
      (7)   Certification that the investment is permissible under the
authority of KRS 66.480.
   (B)   In addition, the report shall explain the quarter’s total investment
return and compare this return with budgetary expectations. Summaries of recent
market conditions and economic developments, as well as suggested changes in
the investment strategy, should also be included in the report.
(Ord. 1B-1994, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.15 AUDIT.
   In connection with the annual audit of city funds conducted by an
independent certified public accountant, the auditor shall conduct a review of
the city’s investment program, including internal controls and procedures.
Results of the review, including recommended changes, shall be included in the
city’s audit.
(Ord. 1B-1994, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.16 ADOPTION AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A) The city’s investment policy shall be adopted by order of the City
Commission and shall become effective on the date of adoption, but no later
than January 1, 1995.
   (B)   The policy shall be reviewed annually and revised as needed. Any
amendments to this policy must be made by order of the City Commission.
(Ord. 1B-1994, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.17 PRIOR INVESTMENTS.
   Any investment held on the date of initial adoption of this policy which
does not meet its guidelines shall be exempted from its provisions. At maturity
or liquidation, the moneys so invested, if reinvested, shall be reinvested in
accordance with this policy. The City Treasurer may take a reasonable period of
time to adjust the existing investment portfolio to the provisions of this
policy in order to avoid the premature liquidation of any current investment.
(Ord. 1B-1994, passed 12-13-1994)
CODE OF ETHICS
§ 31.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT. An annual statement filed on a form supplied
by the City Clerk which discloses a person’s personal and financial interests
required to be reported under this subchapter.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST. Any interest which shall yield, directly or indirectly,
a monetary or other material benefit (other than one’s duly authorized salary
or compensation for services to the city) to the officer, official, or employee
or to any person employing or retaining the services of the official or
employee.
   OFFICER. Any person elected to any public body of the city, whether paid or
unpaid, and whether part time or full time.
   PERSONAL INTEREST. Any interest arising from blood or marital relationships
or from close business or political association, whether or not any financial
interest is involved.
   PUBLIC BODY. Any agency, board, body, commission, committee, department, or
office of the city.
(Ord. 3-1994-95, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.31 ETHICAL DUTIES AND STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of officers to comply with federal and state
constitutional law; the statutes and administrative regulations of the federal
government and the state; and ordinances of the city with respect to the proper
and appropriate conduct of their positions.
   (B)   Mindful of these laws, each officer shall:
      (1)   Perform all mandatory, nondiscretionary, and ministerial duties of
their positions within the time and manner required by law;
      (2)   Devote adequate attention to one’s duties and conduct any city
business with fairness, integrity, and professionalism in full regard of the
public trust of the office;
      (3)   Accept only that amount of salary, benefits, or reimbursements for
services or goods as authorized pursuant to a city contract, ordinance,
resolution, or other official city action;
      (4)   Act within the confines of their lawful authority or official
capacity;
      (5)   Prepare and keep all city accounts, records, certificates, reports,
and other documents in an accurate and honest manner, avoiding any intentional
and knowingly falsification of the same;
      (6)   Reject and discourage anything of value including, but not limited
to, any gifts, loans, favors, moneys, promises, or services offered and/or
given for the purpose of influencing them in the discharge of their duties;
      (7)   Use city property, facilities, or resources only as authorized in
their official capacity, not for the personal benefit, convenience, or gain,
monetary or otherwise, of themselves or any others;
      (8)   Keep confidential any city documents or business information
designated as such, and avoid using any confidential information to advance
personal or financial interests; and
      (9)   Act in what is conceived, in their opinion, to be the best interest
of all the citizens of the city, granting no special consideration or treatment
to any citizen or group of citizens which is not available to all citizens.
(Ord. 3-1994-95, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.32 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   No officer, either on his or her own behalf or any other person’s,
shall have any financial interest in any business or transaction with any
public body unless he or she shall first make full public disclosures of the
nature and extent of such interest.
   (B)   Whenever the performance of one’s official duties shall require any
officer to deliberate and vote on any matter involving one’s financial or
personal interest, such interest shall be publicly disclosed and the officer
shall be disqualified from participating in the deliberation and voting.
   (C)   No officer shall engage in private employment with, or render services
for, any private person who has business transactions with any public body
unless he or she shall first make full public disclosure of the nature and
extent of such employment or services.
   (D)   No officer shall represent or appear on behalf of any private person,
other than himself or herself, before any public body of the city.
   (E)   No officer shall appoint, employ, or vote for appointment or
employment of any person related by blood or marriage to any clerkship, office,
position, employment, or duty when the salary, wages, pay, or compensation is
to be paid out of public funds, unless at least a two-thirds majority of the
non-interested officers agree that such would be in the best interest of the
city under the prevailing circumstances.
(Ord. 3-1994-95, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.33 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Any officer who makes or participates in the making of city-based
decisions which may foreseeably have a material effect on a personal or
financial interest of such person shall file an annual financial disclosure
statement with the person designated by the city as the Code of Ethics
Enforcement Officer. Such statements shall be available for public inspection.
   (B)   An initial financial disclosure statement shall be filed within 30
days after the effective date of this subchapter.
   (C)   Financial disclosure statements shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Investments or interests in real property reports where the
individual fair market value of each investment or real property interest is
over $5,000. For such investments or real property interests, the statement
shall contain a description of the nature of the investment or interest, the
name and general description of the business entity in which each investment is
held, and the address or other precise location of the real property;
      (2)   Personal income reports detailing the name and address of each
source of income aggregating $1,000 or more in value, or $100 or more in value
if the income was a gift, and a general description of the business activity,
if any, of each source. Such report shall also describe any consideration, if
any, for which the income was received. Gifts from members of the immediate
family need not be reported; and
      (3)   Business entity income reports detailing the names of all persons
from whom the filer’s business entity, including sole proprietorships, received
payments if the filer’s pro rata share of gross receipts from such persons was
equal to or greater than $5,000 during a calendar year.
   (D)   Persons required to file financial disclosure statements under
division (A) above must disqualify themselves from making or participating in
the making of any decisions which will foreseeably have a material financial
effect, distinguishable from its effect on the public generally, on any
reportable interest of that person.
   (E)   Persons required to disqualify themselves shall notify the Code of
Ethics Enforcement Officer in writing of their disqualification. The Code of
Ethics Enforcement Officer shall record their disqualification. In the
alternative, persons required to disqualify themselves may give notice of their
disqualification at the meeting or proceeding during which consideration of the
decision takes place. Such notice shall be made part of the record of the
meeting or proceeding.
(Ord. 3-1994-95, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.34 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city reserves the right to enter into an agreement at any time
with one or more other cities or counties pursuant to the provisions of the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, KRS 65.210 - 65.300, for the purpose of
establishing a joint commission responsible for enforcing the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (B)   In the absence of such an agreement, the city shall appoint the City
Clerk, or another qualified, non-interested person, as the Code of Ethics
Enforcement Officer, who shall be responsible for the enforcement of the
provisions of this subchapter, including: maintenance of financial disclosure
statements; receipt of complaints alleging possible violations of this
subchapter; issuance of opinions in response to inquiries relating to this
subchapter; investigation of possible violations of this subchapter; and
imposition of penalties provided under this subchapter upon the advice and
consent of city officers.
   (C)   Upon the sworn complaint of any person alleging facts which, if true,
would constitute improper conduct under the provisions of this subchapter, the
Code of Ethics Enforcement Officer shall notify the city in writing. The city
shall conduct a public hearing in accordance with all the requirements of due
process of the law, and, through written findings of fact and conclusions based
thereon, make a determination concerning the propriety of the conduct of the
subject officer.
(Ord. 3-1994-95, passed 12-13-1994)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any officer violating any provision of §§
31.30 to 31.34 may be reprimanded, suspended, or discharged. In addition, any
person, firm, or corporation convicted of violating any provision of §§
31.30 to 31.34 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each
offense.
(Ord. 3-1994-95, passed 12-13-1994)
CHAPTER 32: PROCEDURE FOR ADOPTING ORDINANCES
Section
   
32.01    Subject and title
   
32.02    Introduction
   
32.03    Amendments
   
32.04    Ordinance to be presented twice
   
32.05    Adoption of legislation produced by other legislative bodies
   
32.06    Quorum
   
32.07    Exception to presentation requirement
   
32.08    Actions to be recorded in the permanent record
   
32.09    Publishing requirement
   
32.10    City may have additional requirements
   
32.11    Examination of code every five years
   
32.12    Municipal orders
   
32.13    Signature of City Clerk
   
32.14    Immunities and protections for legislative body
   
32.15    Publication
Cross-reference:
   City organization, see
Chapter 30
   City policies, see
Chapter 31
§ 32.01 SUBJECT AND TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1992)
§ 32.02 INTRODUCTION.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Hickory Hill”.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1992)
§ 32.03 AMENDMENTS.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
words being added by a single solid line drawn underneath them, and any words
being deleted by a single broken line drawn through them.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1992)
§ 32.04 ORDINANCE TO BE PRESENTED TWICE.
   Except as provided in §
32.07, no ordinance shall be enacted until it has been read on two separate
days. The reading of an ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and
reading a summary rather than the full text.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1992)
§ 32.05 ADOPTION OF LEGISLATION PRODUCED BY OTHER LEGISLATIVE BODIES.
   A city legislative body may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or
nationally recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1992)
§ 32.06 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of a legislative body shall
constitute a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum shall be sufficient to
take action.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1992)
§ 32.07 EXCEPTION TO PRESENTATION REQUIREMENT.
   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the membership,
a city legislative body may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication to provide for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.09 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1992)
§ 32.08 ACTIONS TO BE RECORDED IN THE PERMANENT RECORD.
   (A)   (1)   Every action of the city legislative body shall be made a part
of the permanent records of the city and, on passage of an ordinance, the vote
of each member of the city legislative body shall be entered on the official
record of the meeting.
      (2)   The legislative body shall provide by ordinance for the maintenance
and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city.
      (3)   The person assigned this responsibility and the presiding officer
shall sign the official record of each meeting.
   (B)   All ordinances adopted in a city shall, at the end of each month, be
indexed and maintained in the following manner:
      (1)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years; and
      (2)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and indexed in a composite index or
maintained in a code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1992)
§ 32.09 PUBLISHING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Except in cities of the first class, a charter county government, and
as provided in §
32.07, no ordinance shall be effective until published pursuant to KRS Chapter
424. Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared and certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the commonwealth and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes fines, penalties,
forfeitures, taxes, or fees.
   (B)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1992)
§ 32.10 CITY MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   A city may specify by ordinance additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but a city shall not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this section or any other statute
relating to adoption of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1992)
§ 32.11 EXAMINATION OF CODE EVERY FIVE YEARS.
   At least once every five years, each city shall cause all ordinances in the
composite index or code of ordinances to be examined for consistency with state
law and with one another and to be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete,
inconsistent, and invalid provisions.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1992)
§ 32.12 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   The legislative body may adopt municipal orders. Orders shall be in
writing and may be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, a municipal order may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the municipality and to
appoint or remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards,
commissions, and other agencies over which the city has control.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1992)
§ 32.13 SIGNATURE OF CITY CLERK.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in a printed composite index or
code of ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received
in evidence by any state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1992)
§ 32.14 IMMUNITIES AND PROTECTIONS FOR LEGISLATIVE BODY.
   For anything said in debate, legislative body members shall be entitled to
the same immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1992)
§ 32.15 PUBLICATION.
   (A)   If a statute gives discretion to a public officer or agency or
governmental body as to the method of making an advertisement required by the
statute, and if a statute provides that an advertisement may be made either by
posting or by newspaper publication, the advertisement shall be made by
newspaper publication in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, except
as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   Any city may, when the cost of the newspaper publication exceeds the
cost of postage, supplies, and reproduction for the alternative method of
publication, in lieu of newspaper publication of advertisement, substitute
delivery of a copy of the advertisement by first class mail to each residence
within the publication area. Any city electing to use the alternative
publication methods authorized by this section shall forward three copies of
its audit report or one copy of its financial statement, whichever is
applicable, to the state’s Department of Local Government pursuant to KRS
91A.040 and 424.220.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1992)
CHAPTER 33: COMMISSION PLAN
Section
   
33.01    Form of government
   
33.02    Governing officers
§ 33.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided in this chapter shall be known as the
“Commission Plan”, and this chapter, together with KRS 83A.010 to 83A.120
govern the city.
(KRS 83A.140(1))
§ 33.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected officer who shall be called
Mayor and by elected legislative body members who shall be called City
Commissioners and which together shall be known as the City Commission, and by
other officers and employees as may be provided for by statute or city
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.140(2))
   (B)   The City Commission shall be composed of the Mayor and four
Commissioners.
(KRS 83A.030(2))
CHAPTER 34: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01    Oath
   
34.02    Compensation
   
34.03    Removal from office
   
34.04    Bond
Elected Officials
   
34.15    Election procedure
   
34.16    Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem
   
34.17    Commissioners
Nonelected City Officials
   
34.30    Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
34.31    City Clerk
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 OATH.
   Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the discharge of duties
of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm,
as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of this Commonwealth,
and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful and true to the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen thereof, and that I
will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the office of           ,
according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the
adoption of the present Constitution, I, being a citizen of this United States,
have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this State, nor out of it,
nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons,
nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any
person thus offending, so help me God”, as established by § 228 of the Kentucky
Constitution.
§ 34.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every
elected city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in
which the officer is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be
changed after his or her election or during his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.070(1))
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and Commissioners
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
shall compute by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky,
which provides that the Mayor and Commissioners shall be paid at a rate no
greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Commission shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
(KRS 83A.075)
   (B)   The Commission shall fix the compensation of city employees and
nonelected city officers in accordance with the personnel and pay
classification plan ordinance of the city.
(KRS 83A.070(2))
   (C)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(KRS 83A.070(3))
Editor’s note:
   Compensation ordinances are not set forth in this code but are rather kept
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
§ 34.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
incapacity, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
Commission exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Commission at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory references:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
§ 34.04 BOND.
   (A)   Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS 62.060.
   (B)   All officers, officials and employees of the city who handle public
funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to
the city for the faithful and honest performance of their duties, and as
security for all money coming into that person’s hands or under that person’s
control. The amount of the bond shall be based upon the maximum amount of
public funds the officer, official, or employee handles at any given time
during a fiscal year cycle. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the city.
   (C)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with division (A) above.
(KRS 65.067)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 34.15 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers shall be governed by general election laws
as provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless the Commission prescribes by
ordinance that election of city officers shall be under nonpartisan city
election laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A. The ordinance shall become
effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by the election
law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with the County
Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which any city
office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any ordinance
prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city election
laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of the
county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above by ordinance, except that no change shall be
made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
(KRS 83A.050)
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing upon adoption of this
chapter shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of
Mayor and Commissioners may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
(KRS 83A.080(4))
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(KRS 83A.080(5))
§ 34.16 MAYOR; MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office shall begin on January 1 following his or her
election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor qualifies.
If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and
serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be
considered for purposes of re-election to a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the Commission
shall fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason any vacancy in the
office of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor
shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall
serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(a), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Commission may vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(b))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation shall be effective at
the next regular or special meeting of the City Commission occurring after the
date specified in the written letter of resignation.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Commission or the Governor,
whichever is designated to make the appointment, shall immediately notify in
writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Commission shall elect from among its members an
individual to preside over meetings of the City Commission during any vacancy
in the office of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to
83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may
vote in all proceedings.
      (2)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
authorized by ordinance or resolution shall be executed by the Mayor on behalf
of the city.
   (E)   Mayor Pro Tem.
      (1)   The Commission shall designate one City Commissioner to serve as
Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem shall act for the Mayor whenever the Mayor is
unable to attend to the duties of his or her office, and he or she shall then
possess all rights, powers, and duties of Mayor.
      (2)   If the disability of the Mayor to attend to his or her duties
continues for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared vacant
by a majority vote of the Commission membership, and the provisions of division
(C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
§ 34.17 COMMISSIONERS.
   For provisions concerning the City Commission, see
Chapter 35.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 34.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
(KRS 83A.080(1))
   (B)   All nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Commission.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Commission at will
unless otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
   [Reserved]
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(2), (3)
§ 34.31 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The office of City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any other
nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of the office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include but are not
limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the official custodian or
custodian in accordance with KRS 61.870 to 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail to the Department for
Local Government a list containing current city information, including but not
limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct names of the Mayor, Commissioners, and the following
appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer;
            3.   City Manager;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Finance Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief; and
            8.   Public Works Director.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person who may be reached during normal business
hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City
Commission from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless the
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
CHAPTER 35: CITY COMMISSION
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01    Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
35.02    Vacancies
   
35.03    Powers and duties
   
35.04    Each Commissioner to superintend specific city departments
Rules of Procedure
   
35.15    Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
35.16    Meetings
   
35.17    Quorum
Ordinances
   
35.30    One subject; title
   
35.31    Introduction; enacting clause
   
35.32    Form of amendment
   
35.33    Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
35.34    Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
35.35    Official city records
   
35.36    Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
35.37    Publication requirements
   
35.38    Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
35.39    Periodic review required
   
35.40    Municipal orders
   
35.41    Proved by City Clerk; received in evidence
   
35.42    Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Commissioner shall be elected at large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Commission
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on January 1 following the election and shall
be for two years, except as provided by KRS 83A.050.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 35.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Commission occur in a way that
one or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days
fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice
of his or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the
remaining members in making further appointments until all vacancies are
filled. If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor
shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute
a quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Commission shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Commission
occurring after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs on the City
Commission which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment,
the City Commission or the Governor, whichever is designated to make the
appointment, shall immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk and the
Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If, for any reason, any vacancy on
Commission is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 35.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   All legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the city
is hereby vested in and exercised by the Commission. The Commission shall
enforce the Commission Plan, ordinances and orders of the city, and all
applicable statutes.
      (1)   The Commission shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (2)   The Commission shall supervise all departments of city government
and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its jurisdiction and
may require each department to make reports to it as it finds necessary.
      (3)   The Commission shall report to the public on the condition and
needs of the city government as provided by ordinance, but not less than
annually.
(KRS 83A.140(3))
   (B)   In carrying out its duty to supervise the departments of city
government and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its
jurisdiction, the Commission may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or
her official duties.
(KRS 83A.140(5))
   (C)   The Commission shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (D)   The Commission shall by ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate these funds in a budget which
shall provide for the orderly management of the city’s resources.
   (E)   The Commission shall promulgate procedures to insure orderly
administration of the functions of city government and compliance with statute,
ordinance, or order.
(KRS 83A.140(8))
§ 35.04 EACH COMMISSIONER TO SUPERINTEND SPECIFIC CITY DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   All administrative and service functions of the city shall be
classified under departments created by ordinance which shall prescribe the
functions of the department and the duties and responsibilities of the
department head and his or her employees.
   (B)   The Commission shall at its first regular meeting in each year
designate the Commission member to have superintendence over each department
established under this section; however, the Commission may delegate
responsibility for overall supervision of any or all departments to a City
Administrative Officer established pursuant to KRS 83A.090.
(KRS 83A.140(6))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 35.15 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may vote in
all proceedings.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
Cross-reference:
   Vacancy in office of Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem, see §
34.16
§ 35.16 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Commission shall be held at least once each
month at those times and places established by ordinance.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or a majority of the City
Commissioners. In the call, the Mayor or City Commissioners shall designate the
purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with sufficient notice for the
attendance of Commission members and for compliance with KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under KRS 83A.060(8) and §
30.01, and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.140(7))
§ 35.17 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Commission shall
constitute a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 35.30 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 35.31 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause, styled: “Be it ordained by the City of Hickory Hill”.
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 35.32 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 35.33 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
(KRS 83A.060(4))
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Commission may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
35.37 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(7))
§ 35.34 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Commission may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or
nationally recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 35.35 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Commission shall be made a part of the permanent
records of the city, and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Commission shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Commission has provided, under the provisions of §§ 31.36(C) and
35.36, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 35.36 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years; and
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)(a), (b))
§ 35.37 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
35.33(B), no ordinance shall be effective until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
Commission. If the Commission elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the
summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law
in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 35.38 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city shall not
lessen or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute
relating to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 35.39 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   At least once every five years, the city shall cause all ordinances in this
code of ordinances to be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another, and to be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 35.40 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Commission may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be
in writing and may be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be
amended only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted
shall be maintained in an official order book.
(KRS 83A.060(12))
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, a municipal order may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the city has control.
(KRS 83A.060(13))
§ 35.41 PROVED BY CITY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 35.42 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Commissioners shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 36: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
36.01    Definitions
   
36.02    Accounting records and financial reports
   
36.03    Annual budget ordinance
   
36.04    Annual audit of city funds
   
36.05    Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
36.20    Definitions
   
36.21    Financing of improvements
   
36.22    Apportionment of cost
   
36.23    Comprehensive report required
   
36.24    Public hearing required
   
36.25    Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
36.26    Affected owner may contest
   
36.27    When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
36.28    Effect of additional property or change in financing
 
   
36.99    Penalty
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year, and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010)
§ 36.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 36.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. Notwithstanding
any another provision of law, no moneys shall be expended from any governmental
or proprietary fund except in accordance with a budget ordinance adopted
pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Commission.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in the form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the Commission not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal
year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Commission shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations
for the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether
greater or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget
ordinance may be in any form that the Commission finds most efficient in
enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157
of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Commission may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Commission. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to the Commission of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
36.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond existing appropriations
are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate, or warrant
for the payment of money by the city in any way to any extent, beyond the
unexpended balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 36.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (C) below, each city shall,
after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited
by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audits
shall be completed by February 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited. Within ten days of the completion of the audit and its presentation to
the City Commission, in accordance with division (D)(5) of this section, each
city shall forward an electronic copy or three paper copies of the audit report
to the Department for Local Government for information purposes.
   (B)   (1)   A city with a population of less than 1,000 based upon the most
recent federal decennial census shall, after the close of each odd-numbered
fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public
Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audits shall be completed by
February 1 immediately following the fiscal year to be audited. Within ten days
of the completion of the audit and its presentation to the Commission, in
accordance with division (D)(5) of this section, the city shall forward an
electronic copy or three paper copies of the audit report to the Department for
Local Government for information purposes.
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, each city
subject to the provisions of this division (B) shall prepare a financial
statement in accordance with KRS 424.220 and immediately forward one electronic
or paper copy to the Department for Local Government.
   (C)   Any city, which for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than $75,000, and which has no long-term
debt, whether general obligation or revenue debt, shall not be required to
audit each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. Each city exempted
in accordance with this division (C) shall annually prepare a financial
statement in accordance with KRS 424.220 and immediately forward one electronic
or paper copy to the Department for Local Government for information purposes.
   (D)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biannual
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include but not be limited to requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the Commission at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s work papers upon request.
   (E)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (F)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the City Commission, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS Chapter
424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds”, which shall
include the General Fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (G)   Any city may utilize the alternative publication methods authorized by
KRS 424.190(2) to comply with the provisions of this section.
   (H)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 36.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Commission shall designate as the city’s official depositories one
or more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Commission which
states the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the
payment and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization
shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 36.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all the properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by the Commission of the special benefit
received by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis,
front foot basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may
include consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different
classes of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received,
and other factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all the properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all the property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 36.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Chapter 107
§ 36.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. The
Commission may assess the property in the same manner as for privately owned
property or it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 36.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 36.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
36.23, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 36.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
36.23 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish the ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 36.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
36.25, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution shall be final and binding with respect to the
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 36.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
36.26, or after favorable final judgment in the action, whichever comes later,
the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the action,
including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment thereon
and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The first
installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Commission shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment,
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 36.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
36.23 through
36.27 apply if additional property is included in the improvement or if change
is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property may be
included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof without
compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost apportioned to
any other property, or any other change may be made without this compliance, if
all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be
subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the
discretion of the court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action
brought by any resident of the city. The costs of all proceedings, including a
reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident bringing the action, shall be
assessed against the unsuccessful party.
CHAPTER 37: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01    Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
37.15    Initial request with immediate inspection
   
37.16    Referral to proper custodian
   
37.17    Public records not immediately available
   
37.18    Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
37.19    Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
37.20    Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
37.21    Access to records relating to particular individual
   
37.22    Format of copies
   
37.23    Fees for copies
   
37.24    Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
37.25    Online access to public records in electronic form
   
37.26    Public records protected from disclosure
   
37.27    Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH AND PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE. A photograph or image
of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes when
the individual is booked into a detention facility as defined in KRS 520.010 or
photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099. (KRS 61.870
(9))
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   CUSTODIAN. 
      (1)   The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
(KRS 61.870(6))
      (2)   The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of most of the public records
of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. 
      (1)   The chief administrative officer or any other officer or employee
of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and keeping of
public records, regardless of whether the records are in his or her actual
personal custody and control.
(KRS 61.870(5))
      (2)   The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. 
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission, and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee, and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board, and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which, within any fiscal year, derives at least 25% of its
funds expended by it in the commonwealth from state or local authority funds.
However, any funds derived from a state or local authority in compensation for
goods or services that are provided by a contract obtained through a
competitive procurement process shall not be included in the determination of
whether a body is a public agency under this division (8);
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in this definition; by a member or employee of the
public agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created, and controlled by a public agency as
defined in this definition; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in this definition.
(KRS 61.870(1))
   PUBLIC RECORD. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORD shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body discussed in division (8) of the
definition of PUBLIC AGENCY, above that are not related to functions,
activities, programs, or operations funded by state or local authority.
(KRS 61.870(2))
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3))
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 37.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant
and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the application. A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail, or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the Open Records Law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
Statutory reference:
   Right to inspection, limitations, see KRS 61.872(1) - (3)
§ 37.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 37.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 37.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 37.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   Each public agency, upon any request for records made under this chapter,
shall determine within three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the request
and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the three-day
period of his, her, or its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or
in part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute
final agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1))
§ 37.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 37.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
37.26.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 37.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
37.26. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on white
paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard
Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2))
§ 37.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   Noncommercial purposes. The public agency may prescribe a reasonable
fee for making copies of nonexempt public records requested for use for
noncommercial purposes which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction,
including the costs of the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by
the public agency, but not including the cost of staff required. If a public
agency is asked to produce a record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor
the format to meet the request of an individual or a group, the public agency
may, at its discretion, provide the requested format and recover staff costs as
well as any actual costs incurred.
(KRS 61.874(3))
   (B)   Commercial purposes.
      (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) above may be based on one
or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and/or
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
37.25
§ 37.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
37.23(B)(2);
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
37.23(B).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 37.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court shall
authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to civil
litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency, or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b) above
shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is directed
by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action; however, records of information compiled
and maintained by county attorneys or Commonwealth’s attorneys pertaining to
criminal investigations or criminal litigation shall be exempted frm the
provisions of this chapter and shall remain exempted after enforcement action,
including litigation, is completed or a decision is made to take no action. The
exemptions provided by this division (A)(8) shall not be used by the custodian
of the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights granted by this
chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation;
      (12)   Public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly;
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division (A)(13) through the disclosure of the location, configuration,
or security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems.
These critical systems shall include but not be limited to information
technology, communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water,
wastewater, sewage and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A)(13): detailed drawings,
schematics, maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and
operating, utility or security systems of any building or facility owned,
occupied, leased or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division (A)(13) and that describe the exact physical
location of hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(13), TERRORIST ACT means a criminal
act intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(13)(a)6.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division(A)(13), that public
agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to
in KRS 61.880(1), to the commonwealth’s Office of Homeland Security and the
Attorney General.
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A)(13) shall affect the obligations of
a public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs.
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A)(13) shall not
apply when a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public
record identified in this division (A)(13) under the Open Records Law; and
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
(KRS 61.878(1))
   (B)   (1)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
(KRS 61.878(2))
      (2)   In addition, if any public record contains material which is not
excepted under this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of § 36.18.
(KRS 61.878(4))
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878(5))
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. These records
shall include but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878(3))
§ 37.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 38: TAXATION
Section
   
38.01    County assessment adopted
   
38.02    Due date; payment
   
38.03    Delinquency
   
38.04    Disposition of funds
§ 38.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the Jefferson County assessment for all real and personal property
situated within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the City Commission.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
§ 38.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   All taxes shall become due on December 31.
§ 38.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes shall become delinquent on January 1 following their
due dates.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall be
subject to a penalty of 10% on the taxes due and unpaid. The delinquent
taxpayer shall also pay all costs and expenses incidental to any action taken
by the city for collection of the delinquent tax bill.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by cities.
§ 38.04 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All moneys collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Commission.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
[Reserved]
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the BOULEVARD.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and other portions of the roadway between two
intersections that may be legally designated as crossing places and marked by
stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles, whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not
one street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the City
Commission.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the City
Commission and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and
footpaths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any
of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this
traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the City Commission or any authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose traffic regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks.
If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two
weeks, the City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go”, “Caution”, or “Stop”, or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits
either turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the
signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at
another point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at another point as
may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed until
it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by the
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”. Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane, all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above the lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at that place prohibits
the turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal or any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
city.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may, at his or her discretion, disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U-turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.30   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.31   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.32   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.45   Definitions
   
71.46   Permit required
   
71.47   Application for permit
   
71.48   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.49   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.50   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.51   Alternative permit
   
71.52   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.53   Contents of permit
   
71.54   Duties of permittee
   
71.55   Public conduct during parades
   
71.56   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U-TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the City Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident, in which any person is injured or
property damaged, to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render any assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Accident involving death or serious injury; penalty for not reporting, see
KRS 189.990
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.30 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.31 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with and operating
one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights visible under
normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle; or
when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle, or bell,
the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, immediately
drive to a position parallel to and as close as possible to the edge or curb of
the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain in that position
until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep that position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall either, while
proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions.
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.32 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any PARADE, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.46 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the City
Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.47 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the City Commission or any authorized city official on forms provided by the
Commissioner or the official.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   Application. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by and on behalf of or for
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Commission.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.48 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of or ambulance service to areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire; and/or
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If the City Commission or authorized
city official disapproves the application, he or she shall mail to the
applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted,
after the date on which the application was filed, a notice of his or her
action stating the reasons for the denial of the permit.
§ 71.50 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Commission. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Commission shall act on the appeal within 30 days
after its receipt.
§ 71.51 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of and shall have the effect of a parade permit
under this subchapter.
§ 71.52 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The City Commission;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Police Chief and the Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.53 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement of
this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.54 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.55 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.56 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.31 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both. (KRS 189.993(8))
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
Impounding
   
72.25   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.26   Required notice to owner
   
72.27   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.40   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.41   Termination of emergency
   
72.42   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side, the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading, provided that the
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. This backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the centerline of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the centerline of any street. The diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which the vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park the
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (3)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (4)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk;
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (6)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (7)   On any controlled access highway;
      (8)   Within a highway tunnel;
      (9)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; or
      (10)   On an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
(KRS 189.450(5))
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(6))
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting the signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the signs
have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the time
of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions which
by their very nature would not require the signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §§
72.25 through
72.27
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of the signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§ 71.40 through
71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of the property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee, or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.25 through
72.27.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that an unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the
owner’s expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “No Stopping” or “No
Parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator’s arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
§ 72.26 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority, or private person or
business for any reason; when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated,
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority, or by private person or business; or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority, or by private person or business, the police, other authority,
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the State
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 and within
ten business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify
the registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license
number, and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of
the vehicle, and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor
vehicle.
(KRS 376.275(1))
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) above is placed in a garage or
other storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the
notice provided in division (A) above by certified mail to the registered owner
at the address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as
defined in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of recovery of or taking
possession of the motor vehicle. This notice shall contain the information as
to the make, model, license number, and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, the location of the vehicle, and the amount of reasonable charges for
towing, recovery, storage, transporting, and other applicable charges due on
the vehicle. When the owner of the facility fails to provide notice as provided
herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall forfeit all storage fees
accrued after ten business days from the date of tow. This division (B) shall
not apply to a garage or storage facility owned or operated by the city.
(KRS 376.275(2))
§ 72.27 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles
who has substantially complied with the requirements of §
72.26 shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set
forth in KRS 376.275(4) for the reasonable or agreed charges for towing,
recovery, storage, transporting, and other applicable charges due on the
vehicle as long as it remains in his or her possession.
    (B)   Prior to payment of fees and release of a vehicle, a towing or
storage company shall not refuse the right of physical inspection of the towed
vehicle by the owner or an insurance company representative. Release of the
vehicle shall occur to the owner or insurance company representative upon
payment and consent of the release from the owner or the owner’s authorized
representative. Each additional service shall be set forth individually as a
single line item in the bill with an explanation and the exact charge for the
service.
   (C)    If, after a period of 45 days, the reasonable or agreed charges for
towing, recovery, storage, transporting, and other applicable charges due on a
motor vehicle and its contents have not been paid, the motor vehicle and its
contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275(4), may be sold to pay the charges
after the owner has been notified by certified mail ten days prior to the time
and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle pursuant to
this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges for towing,
transporting, and storage, the sale and collection of proceeds shall not
constitute a waiver or release of responsibility for payment of unpaid towing,
transporting, and storage charges by the owner or responsible casualty insurer
of the vehicle. This lien shall be subject to prior recorded liens.
   (D)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title issued
by the state shall be notified by certified mail within the first 15 days of
impoundment. The letter shall include the make, model, license number, vehicle
identification number, owner’s name and last known address, and tentative date
of sale for the vehicle. If the above-referenced certified letter is not sent
within the 15 days by the towing and storage company, then only 15 days of
storage may be charged. The lien holder has the right to take possession of the
motor vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the
reasonable or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle. Nothing
in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle subject to a lien, except
as provided in KRS 186A.190.
(KRS 376.275(3))
Statutory reference:
   Provisions concerning disposition of contents of motor vehicle, see KRS
376.275(4)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.40 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever it is found on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that parking be prohibited, the Commission or
city official is authorized to announce the prohibition, to become effective at
a time specified by him, her or it. After the effective time of the
prohibition, no person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain
parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet or freezing
rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the City Commission or
any authorized city official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking
on snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle
parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following
the fall. The prohibition of parking announced by the City Commission or any
authorized city official under the authority of this section shall remain in
effect until the Commission or city official announces the termination of the
snow emergency, in part or in whole, after which the prohibition of parking
authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.41 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official shall find that
some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition
no longer exist, the Commission or city official is authorized to declare the
termination of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on
announcement. If the announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:
00 p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.42 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the City
Commission or any authorized city official. On a street or highway designated
as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this effect.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount
not less than $20 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(KRS 189.990(1))
Statutory reference:
   Accident involving death or serious injury; penalty for not reporting, see
KRS 189.990
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on the bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a sidecar
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any kind
to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   ANIMALS
      
94.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
95.   LITTERING
CHAPTER 90: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
Easements
   
90.01   Plants on easements prohibited
   
90.02   Definition
Parking and Construction of Fences in Front Yards
   
90.15   Recreational vehicles
   
90.16   Inoperable vehicles
   
90.17   Exceptions
   
90.18   Parking large vehicles
   
90.19   Responsible party for vehicle
   
90.20   Violation
   
90.21   Fences
   
90.22   Enforcement
Abandoned Properties
   
90.35   Tax penalty for abandoned properties
   
90.36   Conflict of law
   
90.37   Violations
   
90.38   Use of tax moneys
 
   
90.99   Penalty
EASEMENTS
§ 90.01 PLANTS ON EASEMENTS PROHIBITED.
   The planting of trees, bushes, and flowering shrubs, whether artificial or
living, as well as the positioning or any obstruction within any easement area
shall be forbidden within the city.
(Ord. 3-1998-99, passed 5-11-1999) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EASEMENT. Includes, but not by limitation, all utility and drainage
easements and street rights- of-way, specifically including the area 25 feet
from the center of the street to the property line in the cul-de-sacs and 30
feet from the center of the through streets in the city.
(Ord. 3-1998-99, passed 5-11-1999)
PARKING AND CONSTRUCTION OF FENCES IN FRONT YARDS
§ 90.15 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   No recreational-type vehicle, van, housecar, or mobile home exceeding 6,000
pounds’ gross vehicle weight; or no airplane, boat, boat trailer, other
trailer, camper, tractor, or part of such vehicle of any weight, shall be
parked or stored on any property zoned single-family residential (R-1 through
R-5), or on the side of any street adjacent to such property, in the city,
except under the conditions listed below:
   (A)   Stored in a garage, or, if the lot does not contain an adequate
garage, then;
   (B)   Stored in the backyard (BACKYARD being defined as behind the rear
exterior wall of the dwelling) on a hard surface, or, if the lot does not have
a back yard suitable for parking, then;
   (C)   On the driveway of the home, provided the vehicle does not extend past
the front wall of the house.
(Ord. 3-1999-00, passed 4-11-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   No vehicle which is inoperable shall be habitually parked or kept on any lot
(except in the garage), or on any street in the city.
(Ord. 3-1999-00, passed 4-11-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing sections, nothing contained
herein shall prohibit the temporary parking of a vehicle described in §
90.15 on a legal drive or street, for cumulative periods of 12 days or less
during any calendar year, or continuous periods of 72 hours or less of a motor
vehicle being used in connection with improvements to or maintenance of the
residence served during such periods of construction or maintenance, or while
such vehicle is being prepared for use or prepared for storage.
(Ord. 3-1999-00, passed 4-11-2000)
§ 90.18 PARKING LARGE VEHICLES.
   No work vehicles over 6,000 pounds’ gross vehicle weight may be left on any
premises except in a garage, or parked behind the rear wall of the residence,
and no more than five vehicles (owned by the resident) of any type may be
present on any premises at any one time. In addition, no vehicle which is
longer than 21 feet is allowed to be parked anywhere in the city.
(Ord. 3-1999-00, passed 4-11-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 RESPONSIBLE PARTY FOR VEHICLE.
   The fact that any vehicle which is illegally parked is registered in the
name of a person, firm, or corporation shall be considered prima facie proof
that such person was in control of the automobile at the time of such parking.
(Ord. 3-1999-00, passed 4-11-2000)
§ 90.20 VIOLATION.
   The owner of any property on which there is any vehicle parked in violation
of this subchapter shall be subject to the same penalties as the owner of the
vehicle or person illegally parking or storing the vehicle.
(Ord. 3-1999-00, passed 4-11-2000)
§ 90.21 FENCES.
   No fence of any type may be constructed past the front exterior wall of any
residence in the city.
(Ord. 3-1999-00, passed 4-11-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any violation of this subchapter shall subject the offender to fines,
penalties, and forfeitures that may be imposed by law, and the city may secure
injunctions and abatement orders, when appropriate, to insure compliance with
its ordinances as authorized by KRS 83A.065.
   (B)   This subchapter may be enforced by any one or in combination of the
remedies authorized by this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-1999-00, passed 4-11-2000)
ABANDONED PROPERTIES
§ 90.35 TAX PENALTY FOR ABANDONED PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Single-family residential properties in the city which were vacant and
unoccupied for at least six months shall be charged with an additional tax
penalty of 20% on the base rate of the tax due as the owner of a non-occupied
structure.
   (B)   Owners of non-occupied residential properties are not eligible for any
early payment discounts. Determination of whether a structure is unoccupied for
the time period will be made by the city via documented observation.
   (C)   OCCUPATION shall mean regular, continuous, or at least, semi-
continuous use by humans as a residence, such as, but not limited to, living
and sleeping at the location for continuous, regular periods. If any owner
contests the designation, he or she shall protest such in writing and document
the proof of occupation to the City Attorney within 45 days of the issuance of
the tax bill by the city.
(Ord. 3-2012-13, passed - -)
§ 90.36 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   These provisions shall substitute any conflicting provisions in the city’s
tax rate ordinance for qualifying residents; however, any non-conflicting
additional penalties and interest contained in the city tax rate ordinance
shall be in addition to any penalties charged herein.
(Ord. 3-2012-13, passed - -)
§ 90.37 VIOLATIONS.
   Any penalties established by this subchapter shall be issued through the
city to the property owner in the same manner and with the same authority for
enforcement as the city taxes real property, including the availability of lien
filings as allowed by state statutes.
(Ord. 3-2012-13, passed - -)
§ 90.38 USE OF TAX MONEYS.
   The revenue from said taxes, interest, and penalties shall be used for
general operating expenses of the city and for general purposes of the city, in
the discharge of its municipal functions as ordained, resolved, or directed by
the City Commission.
(Ord. 3-2012-13, passed - -)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Penalties for §§
90.15 to
90.22 include the following.
      (1)   Criminal.
         (a)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
90.15 to
90.22 shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $100.
         (b)   Where state statutes mandate a fine higher than that stipulated
herein, the fine contained in state statutes shall apply.
         (c)   Any continuing violation of §§
90.15 to
90.22 shall be considered a separate and distinct offense for each day on which
a violation occurs or continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed
therefor.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
90.15 to
90.22 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to two
times the minimum fine prescribed in this division (B), with a minimum civil
penalty of $50 for each violation.
         (b)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the
penalty within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the ordinance
violation. As used herein, CITED shall mean notified of the violation and the
penalty in writing by an elected or appointed official of the city or the
official attorney for the city. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative
to or in conjunction with the criminal penalties authorized herein.
(Ord. 3-1999-00, passed 4-11-2000)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Openings and Encroachments
   
91.01   Opening permit required; encroachment permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers and warning lights around excavations
OPENINGS AND ENCROACHMENTS
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED; ENCROACHMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city
official, to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of
the city unless an opening permit has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city
official, to make any vehicular connection to any of the city’s rights-of-way,
unless an encroachment permit has been obtained from the City Commission prior
to the commencement of work on the connection.
(Ord. 3-2010, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Each permit for making an opening/encroachment shall be confined to a
single project and shall be issued by the City Commission or other authorized
city official.
   (B)   Application for either an opening or encroachment permit shall be made
on a form prescribed by the City Commission, which at a minimum shall require
giving the exact location of the proposed opening or encroachment, a plan
showing in detail the work to be done, type of materials to be used, the kind
of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and other facts required by the
city for a full understanding of the proposal, including (if deemed necessary
by the City Commission) a traffic study and analysis. The permit shall be
issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration
has been posted with the authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and
satisfactory refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces
disturbed.
   (C)   An encroachment permit shall not be issued until the City Commission
makes a written determination that the connection will not adversely impact the
health and safety of the city, which analysis includes, but is not limited to,
consideration of:
      (1)   The extent to which the connection will allow cut through traffic
to flow through city rights-of-way;
      (2)   Whether the parcel benefitted by the connection has other,
reasonable vehicular access through another access point;
      (3)   If the impact on the community by making the connection outweighs
the applicant’s need for the use;
      (4)   Whether the applicant will be adversely affected by denial of the
encroachment permit;
      (5)   Whether the abutting property owners with be adversely affected by
the approval of the encroachment permit;
      (6)   The cost (if any) to the city in allowing the encroachment;
      (7)   Whether or not the encroachment is for a normal connection of a
residence;
      (8)   Whether or not the granting of the encroachment would set
precedence for other applications, from property similarly situated; and
      (9)   Whether the applicant has fully studied (to the satisfaction of the
City Commission) the traffic implication of the encroachment on the surrounding
city intersections and roadways, as part of its encroachment application.
(Ord. 3-2010, passed - -)
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of pavement or other surface shall be
preformed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the City Commission or
other authorized city official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and
specifications approved by the City Commission.
   (B)   Upon the failure or refusal of the permittee to satisfactorily fill
the excavation and restore the surface and remove all excess materials within
the time specified in the permit or, where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration and the deposit referred to herein
shall be forfeited. If the amount of the services performed by the city should
exceed the amount of the deposit, the city shall proceed to collect the
remainder due from the permittee.
(Ord. 3-2010, passed - -)
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AND WARNING LIGHTS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaging in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury and have adequate
warning lights.
(Ord. 3-2010, passed - -)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Domestic pets, farm animals, and wild animals
   
92.02   Height of weeds or grass on property
   
92.03   Dumping of rubbish, yard wastes
   
92.04   Accumulation of rubbish on property
   
92.05   Obstruction of tree branches or plants
   
92.06   Inoperative motor vehicles, trailers; vehicle parking
   
92.07   Portable outdoor signs prohibited
   
92.08   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DOMESTIC PETS, FARM ANIMALS, AND WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of property within the
city to have one or more pets (including, but no limited to, dogs, cats, and
other domestic animals) that continually bark, howl, whine or make noise loudly
or threaten to attack or attack persons or other animals, roam loose, chase
cars or other vehicles, including bicycles, or get into residents’ garbage,
whether open or otherwise.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of property with the
city to allow any livestock, poultry, other farm animals, or any wild animals
(whether caged or running loose) on their property within the city limits at
any time.
(Ord. 4-1994-95, passed 5-23-1995) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 HEIGHT OF WEEDS OR GRASS ON PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any property within the
city to permit weeds or grass to grow greater than seven inches in height on
his or her property.
(Ord. 4-1994-95, passed 5-23-1995) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 DUMPING OF RUBBISH, YARD WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any property in the city
to dump rubbish, leaves, branches, grass clippings, shrubbery, prunings, or any
other trash in the drainage areas or ditches within the common areas,
easements, and/or the public areas in the city, other than as permitted by
sanitation services.
(Ord. 4-1994-95, passed 5-23-1995) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH ON PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any property in the city
to permit any growth, refuse, trash, garbage, or scrap material which attracts
rodents or otherwise is a nuisance to the public to accumulate and remain upon
any property within the city.
(Ord. 4-1994-95, passed 5-23-1995) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 OBSTRUCTION OF TREE BRANCHES OR PLANTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any property in the city to
allow branches of his or her trees or shrubs to hang lower than eight feet
above any sidewalk or street within the city.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful to allow plants or shrubs to grow up or to
extend onto any street, sidewalk, or traffic sign or street sign which will
obstruct the passage or view of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 4-1994-95, passed 5-23-1995) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLES, TRAILERS; VEHICLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store motor vehicles, boats,
boat trailers, and campers, if they are inoperative or unfit for further use
for which they were intended, within the city limits, unless stored within
one’s garage.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, or any part
of any vehicle, in any part of the yard (including easements) of one’s
residence, except on the paved driveway.
(Ord. 4-1994-95, passed 5-23-1995) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 PORTABLE OUTDOOR SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, in person,
or by its authorized agent, to cause, allow, or permit the placing of
electrical or nonelectrical, lighted or unlighted, mechanical or nonmechanical,
portable outdoor signs on any public property or any property owned, occupied,
or under the control of such person.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation found in violation of this provision
of this subchapter shall be liable to the city for any and all expenses,
losses, or damages to the city as a result of such violation, including the
cost of removal of said signs.
(Ord. 4-1994-95, passed 5-23-1995) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If after informal contact from an official of the city, the offense
remains without resolution, the city, through its duly elected and/or appointed
officials, will give written notice by regular U.S. mail to the offending owner
or occupant of the property in question of the existence of the offending
condition.
   (B)   If the owner occupant fails to remove or abate the condition within
ten days from the date the notice is mailed, the city may proceed to remove or
abate the condition and add the cost of same, together with interest thereon at
12% per annum, to the next property tax bill and/or place a lien on the
property in question to secure the payment thereof.
(Ord. 4-1994-95, passed 5-23-1995)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §§
92.01 to
92.07 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each offense.
      (2)   Each day of continued violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 4-1994-95, passed 5-23-1995)
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Animals running at large
   
93.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
93.04   Torture of dogs or cats
   
93.05   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
93.06   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
93.07   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
Dogs
   
93.20   Definition
   
93.21   License required
   
93.22   Registration and issuance of license
   
93.23   License tag to be attached to dog
   
93.24   Dogs running at large
   
93.25   Noise disturbance
   
93.26   Impoundment
   
93.27   Reclaiming impounded dog
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner or his or
her agent.
(KRS 257.010)
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 93.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by the animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including but not limited to being
a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal is caused to fight
for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other than a
dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space, or
health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (C)   (1)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense under
division (A) above arising from the person’s treatment of an equine, the court
may impose one or both of the following penalties against the person, in
addition to fines and imprisonment:
         (a)   An order that the person pay restitution for damage to the
property of others and for costs incurred by others, including reasonable
costs, as determined by agreement or by the court after a hearing, incurred in
feeding, sheltering, veterinary treatment, and incidental care of any equine
that was the subject of the offense resulting in conviction; or
         (b)   An order terminating or imposing conditions on the person’s
right to possession, title, custody, or care of any equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
      (2)   If a person’s ownership interest in an equine is terminated by a
judicial order under division (C)(1)(b) above, the court may order the sale,
conveyance, or other disposition of the equine that was the subject of the
offense resulting in conviction.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
93.99
Cross-reference:
   Torture of dogs or cats, see §
93.04
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 93.04 TORTURE OF DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires,
TORTURE means the intentional infliction of or subjection to extreme physical
pain or injury, motivated by an intent to increase or prolong the pain of the
animal.
   (B)   A person is guilty of torture of a dog or cat when he or she without
legal justification intentionally tortures a domestic dog or cat.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing or injuring of a
dog or cat:
      (1)   In accordance with a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   For humane purposes;
      (3)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (4)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to training for organized dog or cat shows, or other animal shows in
which a dog or a cat, or both, participate;
      (5)   For bona fide animal research activities, using dogs or cats, of
institutions of higher education; or a business entity registered with the
United States Department of Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject
to other federal laws governing animal research;
      (6)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased dog or cat;
      (7)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
dog or cat;
      (8)   For animal or pest control; or
      (9)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (D)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife Resources shall not constitute a violation of this section.
   (E)   The acts specified in this section shall not constitute cruelty to
animals under KRS 525.125 or 525.130.
(KRS 525.135) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Torture of dogs and cats resulting in physical injury, second and subsequent
offenses, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.135
   Torture of dogs and cats resulting in serious physical injury or death, a
Class D felony, see KRS 525.135
§ 93.05 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the city may destroy or kill, or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian or of two reputable citizens called by him or her
to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his or her
agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may
be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of
as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
   (D)   Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100)
DOGS
§ 93.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
§ 93.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in the city
without first obtaining a license for each dog. This section and §
93.22 shall not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within
the city for a period less than 30 days.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 REGISTRATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All dogs kept in the city shall be registered as to sex, breed, name
and address of the owner, and name of the dog. At the time of the registration
the owner shall obtain a license tag for the dog and shall pay a fee as
established by City Commission for each dog.
   (B)   The license tag shall be valid for one year from the date of issue. A
new tag shall be obtained each year by every owner and a new fee paid.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 LICENSE TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall be worn
continuously, and the failure to have the tag so attached shall subject the
owner or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.24 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground, or on any other public or private property.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.25 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb the
peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or more
separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain,
be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he or she
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.26 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
subchapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound the dog or have
the dog impounded in the appropriate place.
§ 93.27 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
93.03 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$500, imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
93.04 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor for the first offense if the dog
or cat suffers physical injury as a result of the torture.
(KRS 525.135)
   (D)   Any person who violates §
93.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
CHAPTER 94: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
94.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
94.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
94.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
94.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
94.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
94.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
94.20   Blasting permit
   
94.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
94.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, FIREWORKS means any composition or
device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
“consumer fireworks” as defined in division (B) below or “display” fireworks as
defined in division (D) of this section and as set forth in the U.S. Department
of Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials regulations. FIREWORKS does not
include:
      (1)   Exception No. 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices
in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT regulations,
and packed and shipped according to those regulations, are not considered to be
FIREWORKS and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all times.
      (2)   Exception No. 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be FIREWORKS.
      (3)   Exception No. 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, “consumer fireworks” means
fireworks that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion, and that comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product
Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of
these devices are limited as enumerated in this section. Some small devices
designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500 and 1507, are classified as Division
1.4G Class C explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and include
the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached which, upon ignition,
lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible effect is
produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several-second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term MINE refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term SHELL refers to a device
that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A mine or
shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in sequence
upon ignition of one external fuse. The term CAKE refers to a dense-packed
collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including lift
charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-quarter inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as common fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes, producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match, a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams, may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means pyrotechnic
devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. This term includes, but is
not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130 milligrams)
of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of
pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as consumer fireworks. DISPLAY FIREWORKS are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500 and 1507, and
are classified as Class B explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of these items is as follows:
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale,
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) above are not legal for retail sale
but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the purposes
specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold at wholesale as
provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) above are legal for retail sale,
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
(KRS 227.708)
§ 94.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, copartnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, or keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city official may
grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the city, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals. Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of a character, and so located, discharged, or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person. COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an employee
possessor. A permit under this division (A) shall be issued only to a competent
display operator holding an ATF license. At least one competent display
operator shall be on site during display set-up and firing. This competent
display operator shall maintain a copy of the permit application, as signed by
the local authority having jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site
and at all times the display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of
the State Fire Marshal or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require
issuance of a permit shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 – Code for Fireworks Display
(adopted edition). Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least
15 days in advance of the date of the display. After the privilege is granted,
sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be
lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this division shall be
transferable. For the purposes of this division (A), PUBLIC DISPLAY OF
FIREWORKS shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials
before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors. Any person remaining
within the display area shall be identified as licensed by the ATF, or an
employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to become a competent display
operator. All persons remaining within the display area shall be at least 18
years of age. The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division (A) above. The regulations shall address the
process by which permits are issued and any other procedures that are
reasonably necessary to effectuate this division (A);
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit
as outlined in division (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present
the permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale;
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives;
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use;
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads;
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports;
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations;
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency; and
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
nonprofit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks as
defined in §
94.01(B) and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   Except as provided in §
94.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
94.01(B) may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the following requirements are met:
   (A)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in §
94.01(B) shall register annually with the State Fire Marshal, who may assess a
fee of no more than $25 for each site at which fireworks shall be sold. The
registration requirement under this division (A) shall not apply to permanent
business establishments which are open year round and in which the sale of
fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business. Each location shall
be required to charge sales tax at the current rate imposed on retailers in KRS
139.200;
   (B)   Permanent business establishments open year-round and in which the
sale of consumer fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business shall
only be permitted to sell those consumer fireworks described in §
94.01(B)(1), or shall meet the criteria for “seasonal retailer” described in
division (C) below;
   (C)   SEASONAL RETAILERS shall be defined as any person, firm, co-
partnership, nonprofit, or corporation intending to sell “consumer fireworks”
between June 10 and July 7, or December 26 and January 4 of each year or both,
and shall include permanent businesses, temporary businesses, stores, stands,
or tents. A seasonal retailer shall register with the State Fire Marshal, who
may assess a fee of no more than $250 for each site at which fireworks shall be
sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate
imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200;
   (D)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit, or corporation intending
to sell consumer fireworks, as defined in §
94.01(B) as the primary source of business, that is not a seasonal retailer as
defined in division (C) of this section, shall register with the State Fire
Marshal, who may assess a fee of no more than $500 for each site at which
fireworks will be sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at
the current rate imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200;
   (E)   The annual registration required by this section shall be received by
the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale at
the site for which the registration is intended. Evidence that a sales and use
tax permit has been obtained from the Department of Revenue shall be presented
to the State Fire Marshal as a condition of registration. If the registration
is received less than 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale at the site
for which registration is intended, an additional assessment of $100 shall be
added to the initial fee;
   (F)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall have its
registration certificate displayed in a conspicuous location at the site;
   (G)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) – Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition);
   (H)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
94.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age;
   (I)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under this section unless the individual is supervised by a parent
or guardian;
   (J)   The State Fire Marshal may revoke the registration of any site which
is in violation of a requirement of this section, or any other requirement
provided pursuant to this chapter. If the violation renders any property
especially susceptible to fire loss, and there is present such hazard to human
life or limb that the public safety imperatively requires emergency action, the
State Fire Marshal may take that action, as provided in KRS 227.330(6); and
   (K)   A person lawfully possessing consumer fireworks, as defined in §
94.01(B) may use those items if:
      (1)   He or she is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Fireworks are not ignited within 200 feet of any structure,
vehicle, or any other person; and
      (3)   Use of the fireworks does not place him or her in violation of any
lawfully enacted local ordinance.
(KRS 227.715) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
94.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in his or her judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his or her agents,
employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry; gold
star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate; toy snakes
which contain no mercury; smoke novelties and party novelties, which contain
less than twenty-five hundredths grain of explosive mixture; shells or
cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms; blank cartridges for a show or
theatre, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports, or for
use by military organizations; or the sale of any kind of fireworks, provided
the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 94.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “Display”
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) above shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 94.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the City Commission or
other authorized city official. The City Commission or other authorized city
official, before granting the permit, may require the applicant to provide a
bond to indemnify the city and all other persons against injury or damages
which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for these hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
94.02 or
94.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4))
CHAPTER 95: LITTERING
Section
   
95.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
95.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
95.03   Hauling loose material
   
95.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
95.05   Litter on private property
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSING
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
CHAPTER 110: LICENSING
Section
Registration and Permitting of Rental Properties
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Registration of rental dwellings
   
110.03   Condition of rental property
   
110.04   Issuance of permit
 
   
110.99   Penalty
REGISTRATION AND PERMITTING OF RENTAL PROPERTIES
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOCAL AGENT. An individual, fiduciary, partnership, association,
corporation, or other entity who represents the owner of a rental dwelling for
purposes of this subchapter.
   OWNER. An individual, fiduciary, partnership, association, corporation, or
other entity holding legal or equitable title in a rental dwelling.
   RENTAL DWELLING or RENTAL PROPERTY. Any residential dwelling, which is in
whole or in part occupied by one or more person(s) pursuant to an oral or
written agreement for monetary or any other consideration, but which person(s)
is not acquiring an ownership interest in the dwelling. It does not include
dwellings that are occupied only by members of the owner’s immediate family who
do not pay rent.
   TENANT. Any person, other than an owner, occupying all or part of a rental
dwelling.
(Ord. 3-2011-12, passed 3-21-2012)
§ 110.02 REGISTRATION OF RENTAL DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Registration required. All owners of rental dwellings shall annually
register the rental property with the city on an application in a form provided
by the city. At the time an application is filed, a registration fee of $250
shall be paid in full.
   (B)   Annual registration. The annual registration date shall be January 1
of each year. In the year the ordinance codified herein is enacted (the year
2012), registration and payment is required no later than June 30, 2012.
   (C)   Registration of new rental dwellings. The owner of a new rental
dwelling or of any dwelling newly converted to a rental dwelling shall register
the rental dwelling prior to allowing occupancy.
   (D)   Change in registration information. If the owner of a rental dwelling
(s) already registered with the city, has had a change in the information of
his or her registration, the owner shall re-register within 60 days after any
change occurs in registration information, but does not have to pay the $250
registration fee.
   (E)   Registration of rental dwellings. Application for registration or re-
registration shall include:
      (1)   The address of the rental dwelling;
      (2)   The number of rental dwelling units;
      (3)   The name, residence address, business address, business phone
number, and personal phone number of the owner and/or the local agent, if
applicable;
      (4)   The address where the owner and/or the local agent, if applicable,
will accept notices or orders from the city; and
      (5)   Verification that all state and city taxes levied and assessed
against the rental dwelling that are due and payable at the time of the filing
of the application have been paid. Delinquencies on such taxes may result in
the denial of an application for registration or re-registration under this
section.
   (F)   Inaccurate or incomplete registration information. It shall be a
violation of this section for an owner to provide inaccurate information for
the registration or re-registration of rental dwellings or to fail to provide
information required by the application.
   (G)   Designation of local agent. If the owner of a rental dwelling, or a
responsible member or officer of the owner, does not reside within 60 miles of
the city, the owner shall designate a responsible local agent who shall be
legally responsible for operating such rental dwelling in compliance with this
subchapter, this code of ordinances, and other applicable laws or regulations.
All official notices may be served on the responsible local agent, and any
notice so served shall be deemed to have been served upon the owner of record.
   (H)   More than one owner or ownership entity. Where more than one person
has an ownership interest, the required information shall be provided for each
owner. If those cases in which the owner is not a person, the information
required for registration shall be provided for the organization owning the
rental dwelling and for the president, general manager, director(s), partner
(s), executor, trustee(s), or other chief executive officer(s) of the
organization.
(Ord. 3-2011-12, passed 3-21-2012; Ord. 3-2022-23, passed 10-19-2022)
§ 110.03 CONDITION OF RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   All rental property must be kept in compliance with the city’s code of
ordinances, as well as Metro Louisville ordinances, as a condition of operating
a rental property in the city.
   (B)   The registration application must be accurate and complete. If there
is any change in the application information, it must be updated within 60
days.
   (C)   Each rental dwelling shall provide measures acceptable to the city to
prevent any excessive noise at any property line.
   (D)   Each rental dwelling shall provide measures acceptable to the city to
prevent violations of the city’s parking ordinance by tenants of the rental
unit
(Ord. 3-2011-12, passed 3-21-2012)
§ 110.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Within 30 days of receipt of an application for registration (or re-
registration), along with the registration fee, by the city, the city shall
either issue the owner a permit to operate the rental property, or, if the city
decides not to issue the permit, the city shall provide a written list of
deficiencies or violations that must be corrected before a permit may be
issued.
   (B)   If the owner contests the permit denial, the owner may appeal the
denial to the full City Commission. The appeal must be filed within 20 days of
the receipt of the denial by owner. The appeal will be heard by the full
Commission at its next regular City Commission meeting, at which time the owner
may present evidence relevant to whether the property is in compliance with all
city ordinances, as well as Metro Louisville ordinances.
(Ord. 3-2011-12, passed 3-21-2012)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Criminal.
         (a)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
110.01 to
110.04 shall be guilty of a violation and fined not less than $20 nor more than
$100.
         (b)   Where state statutes mandate a fine higher than that stipulated
herein, the fine contained in the state statutes shall apply.
         (c)   Any continuing violation of §§
110.01 to
110.04 shall be considered a separate and distinct offense for each day on
which a violation occurs or continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed
therefor.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
110.01 to
110.04 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to two
times the minimum fine prescribed in this division (B), with a minimum civil
penalty of $50 for each violation.
         (b)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the
penalty within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the ordinance
violation. As used herein, CITED shall mean notified of the violation and the
penalty in writing by an elected or appointed official of the city or the
official attorney for the city. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative
to or in conjunction with the criminal penalties authorized herein.
(Ord. 3-2011-12, passed 3-21-2012)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of that business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   (a)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means
carrying goods for sale, making sales, or making deliveries; or
         (b)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (2)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Commission.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their applications the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business; and
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as
the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
applications, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or possesses any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. This notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Commission. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the City Commission, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Commission shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to
the person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Commission after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor”, the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the
time that he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
112.01   Imposition of license fee
   
112.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
112.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
112.04   Due date; interest and refunds
   
112.05   Breakdown of collections
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments for overpayment, underpayment, or nonpayment, see KRS 91A.0804
§ 112.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
§ 112.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee or tax imposed by the city upon each insurance company with
respect to life insurance policies may be based upon the first year’s premiums,
and if so based, shall be applied to the amount of the premiums actually
collected within each calendar quarter upon the lives of persons residing
within the corporate limits of the city.
(KRS 91A.080(2))
§ 112.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance company with
respect to any policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be based upon
the premiums actually collected by the insurance company within each calendar
quarter on risks located within the corporate limits of the city on those
classes of business which the insurance company is authorized to transact, less
all premiums returned to policyholders. In determining the amount of license
fee or tax to be collected and to be paid to the city, the insurance company
shall use the tax rate effective on the first day of the policy term. When an
insurance company collects a premium as a result of a change in the policy
during the policy term, the tax rate used shall be the rate in effect on the
effective date of the policy change. With respect to premiums returned to
policyholders, the license fee or tax shall be returned by the insurance
company to the policyholder pro rata on the unexpired amount of the premium at
the same rate at which it was collected and shall be taken as a credit by the
insurance company on its next quarterly report to the city.
(KRS 91A.080(3))
   (B)   No license fee or tax imposed under this chapter shall apply to
premiums:
      (1)   Received on policies of group health insurance provided for state
employees under KRS 18A.225;
      (2)   Received on policies insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees or the death of their employees caused
thereby, under the provisions of KRS Chapter 342;
      (3)   Received on health insurance policies issued to individuals;
      (4)   Received on policies issued through Kentucky Access created in
Subtitle 17B of KRS Chapter 304;
      (5)   Received on policies for high deductible health plans as defined in
26 U.S.C. § 223(c)(2); or
      (6)   Multi-state surplus lines, defined as non-admitted insurance as
provided in Title V, Subtitle B, the Non-Admitted and Reinsurance Reform Act of
2010, of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Pub. L.
No. 111-203;
      (7)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by nonprofit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
school districts; or
      (8)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by nonprofit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
cities, counties, charter county governments, urban-county governments,
consolidated local governments, unified local governments, school districts, or
any other political subdivisions of the state.
(KRS 91A.080(10))
   (C)   No license fee or tax imposed under this chapter shall apply to
premiums paid to insurers of municipal bonds, leases, or other debt instruments
issued by or on behalf of a city, county, charter county government, urban-
county government, consolidated local government, special district, nonprofit
corporation, or other political subdivision of the state. However, this
exemption shall not apply if the bonds, leases, or other debt instruments are
issued for profit or on behalf of for-profit or private organizations.
(KRS 91A.080(13))
§ 112.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter.
(KRS 91A.080(8))
   (B)   (1)   Any insurance company or agent that overpays any license fee or
tax to a city shall be refunded the amount overpaid. If it is determined that
an insurance company or agent paid a license fee or tax to a city based upon
premiums collected upon lives or risks which are discovered to be located
outside the legal corporate limits of the city which was paid the license fee
or tax, the insurance company or agent shall be refunded those license fees and
taxes within 90 days of notice to the city paid.
      (2)   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date shall
bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6) from the
date due until paid. Such interest payable to the city is separate from
penalties provided for in KRS 91A.080(7). In addition, the city may assess a
10% penalty for a tax or fee not paid within 30 days after the due date.
(KRS 91A.080(9))
§ 112.05 BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(KRS 91A.080(8))
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
Hickory Hill Subdivision
   
150.01   Lots for residence purposes only
   
150.02   Square footage requirements
   
150.03   Approval of Building Committee required
   
150.04   Approval of lawn grades and house elevations
   
150.05   Fence regulations
   
150.06   Easements
   
150.07   Noxious or offensive activity
   
150.08   Trailers, garages, and the like
   
150.09   Farm animals
   
150.10   Signs
HICKORY HILL SUBDIVISION
§ 150.01 LOTS FOR RESIDENCE PURPOSES ONLY.
   (A)   All lots in the Hickory Hill Subdivision shall be used for residence
purposes only.
   (B)   No building shall be erected, altered, placed, or permitted to remain
on any lot other than one detached single-family dwelling not to exceed two
stories in height and a private garage for not over two cars.
(Ord. passed 10-16-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02 SQUARE FOOTAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The ground floor area of a one-story house shall have a minimum of
1,500 square feet; a tri-level: 1,300 square feet; a one and one-half story:
1,300 square feet; on first floor of a two-story house: a ground floor area of
at least 1,000 square feet.
   (B)   Open porches and attached garages are not to be included in computing
the floor area.
(Ord. passed 10-16-1972)
§ 150.03 APPROVAL OF BUILDING COMMITTEE REQUIRED.
   No building shall be erected, placed, or altered on any lot until the
construction plans, and a plan showing the location of the structure, the type
of exterior material, and the driveway culvert or apron, shall have been
approved before construction is begun by the city’s Building Committee. Said
Committee to consist of three members elected annually.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.04 APPROVAL OF LAWN GRADES AND HOUSE ELEVATIONS.
   Lawn grades and house elevations and location of house and garage are to be
approved in the same manner as the plans and specifications under §
150.03 above. Building setback lines on the recorded plats shall be observed as
a minimum.
(Ord. passed 10-16-1972)
§ 150.05 FENCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No fence may be built on any lot over six feet in height nor closer to
the front line of the lot than the front line of the house. Fences are to be of
chain link, boards, brick, or pickets of a uniform neat construction.
   (B)   Spacing of said materials will be uniform, and fences will be properly
maintained. Fences are to be approved prior to installation by the Building
Committee.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.06 EASEMENTS.
   The easements shown on the recorded plats of Hickory Hill Subdivision are
reserved as perpetual easements for the purposes shown on said plats.
(Ord. passed 10-16-1972)
§ 150.07 NOXIOUS OR OFFENSIVE ACTIVITY.
   No noxious or offensive activity shall be carried on upon any lot above
described or anything be done thereon which would become an annoyance or
nuisance to the neighborhood.
(Ord. passed 10-16-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.08 TRAILERS, GARAGES, AND THE LIKE.
   No trailer, basement, tent, shack, garage, or other outbuilding erected on
any lot described above at any time shall be used as a residence temporarily or
permanently. No structure shall be moved onto any lot unless it shall conform
to the restrictions herein. No attached garage shall be closed off and
converted to additional living space. Right is reserved to cut the grass on
lots when its length exceeds six inches and to bill the property owner
accordingly.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.09 FARM ANIMALS.
   No chickens, ducks, geese, or other fowl and no swine, cattle, goats,
horses, or other like animal or animals shall be kept on any lot. No animals
are to be raised for commercial purpose on said property.
(Ord. passed 10-16-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.10 SIGNS.
   No more than one sign shall be permitted on any lot and it shall not be
larger than two feet by two feet. Said sign shall be temporary in nature and
shall not be permanently attached to the ground.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Adoption of state codes; enforcement agents
   
151.02   Application
   
151.03   Appeals
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF STATE CODES; ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Title 815, Chapter 7 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Residential Code, as
contained in Title 815, Chapter 7 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations;
the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as contained in Title 815, Chapter 20 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as
contained in Title 815, Chapter 10 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations,
together with any amendments, are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth in this code of ordinances. Copies of the above codes and any amendments
thereto shall be placed on file in the office of the City Clerk where they
shall be available for public inspection during normal business hours.
   (B)   Louisville Metro shall be designated as the local enforcement agent
for the Kentucky Building Code and Residential Code.
   (C)   Louisville Metro and all other designated officers, agents, and
employees of the city are hereby charged with the enforcement of the provisions
of the Standards of Safety.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the Kentucky Building Code and Kentucky Residential Code
shall be extended to all single-family dwellings in the city which are to be
constructed or remodeled.
§ 151.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B, is
established to hear the appeals.
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
151.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
   (A)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense. Each day the violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(KRS 318.990)
   (B)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000, imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
   (C)   Violators of the Uniform State Building Code or the Uniform State
Residential Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $1,000 for each offense. Each day the violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Violations of State Building or Residential Code; penalty, see KRS 227.990
(1)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
4-1993-94 6-14-1994   Participation in an interlocal agreement for cable
                      television service
5-2006-07 9-20-2006   Participation in the Metro Partnership Program with the
                      Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Government
                     
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
1A-1994-95 7-12-1994   Franchise agreement for television services
-2019      - -2019     Granting franchise to MCImetro Access Transmission
                       Services Corp. for communication services
                      
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cites Code Section
KRS Cites                Code Section
6.050                    35.42
6.955 to 6.975           36.04
Chapter 13A              94.02
Chapter 13B              94.06
18A.225                  112.03
41.240                   31.13
41.240(4)                36.05
42.450 to 42.495         36.04
43.050                   36.04
Chapter 61               35.16
61.870 to 61.884         37.27
61.870(1)                37.01
61.870(2)                37.01
61.870(3)                37.01
61.870(4)                37.01
61.870(5)                37.01
61.870(6)                37.01
61.870(7)                37.01
61.870(8)                37.01
61.870(9)                37.01
61.872(1)                37.15
61.872(2)                37.15
61.872(3)                37.15
61.872(4)                37.16
61.872(5)                37.17
61.872(6)                37.18
61.874(1)                37.22
61.874(2)                37.22
61.874(3)                37.23
61.874(4)                37.23
61.874(5)                37.24
61.874(6)                37.25
61.878                   37.01
61.878(1)                37.26
61.878(2)                37.26
61.878(3)                37.26
61.878(4)                37.26
61.878(5)                37.26
61.880(1)                37.19,
                         37.26
61.884                   37.21
62.060                   34.04
65.067                   34.04
65.120                   Chapter 72
65.210 – 65.300        31.34
66.480                   31.09,
                         31.14
66.480(2)                31.09
Chapter 83A              34.15
83A.010 to 83A.120       33.01
83A.010(3)               10.02
83A.010(6)               10.02
83A.010(8)               10.02
83A.030(2)               33.02
83A.040(1)               34.16
83A.040(2)(a)            34.16
83A.040(2)(b)            34.16
83A.040(2)(d)            34.16
83A.040(3)               34.16
83A.040(4)               35.01
83A.040(5)               35.02
83A.040(6)               34.16,
                         35.02
83A.040(7)               34.16,
                         35.02
83A.040(8)               34.16,
                         35.02
83A.040(9)               34.03
83A.045                  30.02
83A.050                  34.15,
                         35.01
83A.060(1)               35.30
83A.060(2)               35.31
83A.060(3)               35.32
83A.060(4)               35.33
83A.060(5)               35.34
83A.060(6)               35.17
83A.060(7)               35.33
83A.060(8)               35.16,
                         35.35
83A.060(8)(a)            35.36
83A.060(8)(b)            35.36
83A.060(9)               35.37
83A.060(10)              35.38
83A.060(11)              35.39
83A.060(12)              35.40
83A.060(13)              35.40
83A.060(14)              35.41
83A.060(15)              35.42
83A.065                  10.99,
                         90.22
83A.070                  34.02
83A.070(1)               34.02
83A.070(2)               34.02
83A.070(3)               34.02
83A.075                  34.02
83A.080(1)               34.30
83A.080(2)               34.30
83A.080(3)               34.03,
                         34.30
83A.080(4)               34.15
83A.080(5)               34.15
83A.085                  34.31
83A.090                  10.18,
                         35.04
83A.130 to 83A.150       34.16
83A.140(1)               33.01
83A.140(2)               33.02
83A.140(3)               35.03
83A.140(4)               34.16,
                         35.15
83A.140(5)               35.03
83A.140(6)               35.04
83A.140(7)               35.16
83A.140(8)               35.03
83A.170                  30.02
83A.175                  30.02,
                         35.02
91A.010                  36.01
91A.010(4)               10.02
91A.010(8)               10.02
91A.020                  36.02
91A.030                  36.03
91A.040                  32.15,
                         36.04
91A.050                  36.04
91A.060                  36.05
91A.080(2)               112.02
91A.080(3)               112.03
91A.080(7)               112.04
91A.080(8)               112.04,
                         112.05
91A.080(9)               112.04
91A.080(10)              112.03
91A.080(13)              112.03
91A.0804                 Chapter 112
91A.200                  36.21
91A.210                  36.20
91A.220                  36.21
91A.230                  36.22
91A.240                  36.23
91A.250                  36.24
91A.260                  36.25
91A.270                  36.26
91A.280                  36.27
91A.290                  36.28
Chapter 107              36.21
Chapters 116 through 121 34.15
118.305(7)               35.02
131.010(6)               112.04
132.285                  38.01
139.200                  94.03
Chapter 154              37.26
186A.190                 72.27
189.020                  71.32
189.285                  73.02
189.287                  73.01
189.290                  71.30
189.330(8)               71.02
189.338                  70.20
189.450(5)               72.03
189.450(6)               72.03
189.580                  71.15
189.725                  72.08
189.930                  71.31
189.990                  71.15,
                         72.99
189.990(1)               72.99
189.993(8)               71.99
196.099                  37.01
Chapter 198B             151.03
198B.070                 151.03
227.330(6)               94.03
227.700                  94.01
227.700 to 227.750       94.01,
                         94.06
227.702                  94.01
227.704                  94.01
227.706                  94.01
227.708                  94.01
227.710                  94.02
227.715                  94.02,
                         94.03
227.720                  94.04
227.730                  94.05
227.750                  94.06
227.990(1)               151.99
227.990(4)               94.99
257.010                  93.01
257.100                  93.07
Chapter 281              72.26
Chapter 304              112.03
318.990                  151.99
Chapter 342              112.03
376.275(1)               72.26
376.275(2)               72.26
376.275(3)               72.27
376.275(4)               72.27
                         32.09,
Chapter 424              36.04,
                         36.24,
                         36.25 
424.190(2)               36.04
424.220                  32.15,
                         36.04
436.600                  93.05,
                         93.99
446.010(1)               10.02
446.010(2)               10.02
446.010(9)               10.02
446.010(10)              10.02
446.010(12)              10.02
446.010(13)              10.02
446.010(14)              10.02
446.010(15)              10.02
446.010(17)              10.02
446.010(18)              10.02
446.010(23)              10.02
446.010(25)              10.02
446.010(26)              10.02
446.010(27)              10.02
446.010(28)              10.02
446.010(30)              10.02
446.010(31)              10.02
446.010(33)              10.02
446.010(37)              10.02
446.010(39)              10.02
446.010(43)              10.02
446.010(46)              10.02
446.010(47)              10.02
446.010(49)              10.02
446.010(55)              10.02
446.020(1)               10.03
446.020(2)               10.03
446.030                  10.04
446.050                  10.05
446.060                  10.06
446.080(1)               10.03
446.080(3)               10.03
446.080(4)               10.03
446.090                  10.07
446.100                  10.08
446.110                  10.09
446.140                  10.01
520.010                  37.01
525.125                  93.03,
                         93.04
                         93.03,
525.130                  93.04,
                         93.99 
525.135                  93.04,
                         93.99 
534.040(2)(c)            10.99
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
3-2010     - -         91.01 –
                       91.04
3-2012-13  - -         90.35 –
                       90.38
                       150.01,
                       150.02,
-          10-16-1972  150.04,
                       150.06,
                       150.07,
                       150.09
2-1984     3-6-1984    30.01
-          5-13-1992   32.01 –
                       32.15
4-1992-93  1-21-1993   30.02
4-1993-94  6-14-1994   TSO Table I
1A-1994-95 7-12-1994   TSO Table II
1B-1994    12-13-1994  31.01 –
                       31.17
                       31.30 –
3-1994-95  12-13-1994  31.34,
                       31.99
                       92.01 –
4-1994-95  5-23-1995   92.08,
                       92.99
3-1998-99  5-11-1999   90.01,
                       90.02
                       90.15 –
3-1999-00  4-11-2000   90.22,
                       90.99
3-2002-03  4-8-2003    30.03
5-2006-07  9-20-2006   TSO Table I
                       110.01 –
3-2011-12  3-21-2012   110.04,
                       110.99
-2019      - -2019     TSO Table II
3-2022-23  10-19-2022  110.02
                      
 
 
 
