HODGENVILLE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2023-05, passed 5-16-2023
State legislation current through 2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
“Hodgenville Code”, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may
be substituted.
      (2)   Title heads, chapter heads and section and division heads or
titles, and explanatory notes and cross-references, do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   (1)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to
those components of the code unless otherwise specified.
      (2)   Any component code may be referred to and cited by its name, such
as the “traffic code”.
      (3)   Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation “§”
followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”.
      (4)   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title,
chapter and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall
not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of the state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature, except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code, shall
denote the City of Hodgenville, irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. LaRue County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of the state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6), KRS 91A.010(4))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LAW. Applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the State of
Kentucky, the ordinances of the City of Hodgenville and, when appropriate, any
and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Hodgenville, Kentucky.
   MUST. The act referred to is mandatory.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. (KRS 446.010(28))
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part
of such building or land.
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   PRECEDING/FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER.
      (1)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
      (2)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the VACANCY is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   WRITTEN. Printed, typewritten, mimeographed, multigraphed or otherwise
reproduced in permanent visible form.
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
(Prior Code, § 1.04.010)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   (1)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act
to be done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the
day on which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in
computing the time.
      (2)   If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is
required to be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on
which the public office in which the act is required to be completed is
actually and legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none
of the days just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may, by law, as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect; except that, the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by ordinances
passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any chapter, section or
division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as printed or omitted
shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances until Council shall
adopt a new code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNCIL AND OFFICERS
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PERSONNEL
      
33.   CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
35.   ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: COUNCIL AND OFFICERS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Non-partisan primary elections
   
30.02   City Officials Training Program
City Council
   
30.15   Regular meetings; dates, times and places
   
30.16   Salary
Officers
   
30.30   Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.31   City Attorney
   
30.32   Mayor
Cross-reference:
   Administrative policies, see
Ch. 35
   Code of Ethical Conduct, see
Ch. 33
   Personnel plan, see §
32.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 NON-PARTISAN PRIMARY ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The non-partisan primary election is foregone, regardless of the
number of candidates running for city office, and all candidates should file
their nomination papers with the County Clerk in accordance with the statute
governing regular elections.
   (B)   This section shall be construed according to KRS 83A.045(2)(b).
(Ord. 2000-9-11, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 30.02 CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING PROGRAM.
   (A)   Adoption; application. In accordance with House Bill 119 of the 2011
General Assembly, as codified in KRS Chapter 64, the city hereby adopts and
establishes a City Officials Training Program to make available incentive
payments as specified by this section to the elected city officials, including
the Mayor, all members of the City Council, the City Clerk, ABC Administrator,
Code Enforcement Officer, and the City Attorney for obtaining education and
training as required under the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Incentive payment amount; required training participation.
      (1)   Each city official eligible for participation in the City Officials
Training Program shall receive training incentive payments of $300 for
completion of each training unit during his or her continuous service as a city
official within the city. The city official shall receive one training unit per
year for the first year, two training units for the second year, three training
units for the third year, and four training units for the fourth year. The city
official must complete at least one training unit per calendar year to qualify.
      (2)   After year four a maximum number of four units may be received.
City officials may only receive training incentives provided that the official
continues to earn at least one training unit each calendar year.
      (3)   The failure of a city official to obtain a training unit during any
calendar year shall disqualify the official from receiving any training
incentive payments for the calendar year and the city official shall receive no
training incentive for that calendar year and shall have his or her training
incentive multiplier reset to one for the following.
      (4)   Any city official earning excess hours during a calendar year shall
be permitted to carry forward a maximum of 15 hours to apply to the earning of
a training unit in the following calendar year.
      (5)   Training incentive payments shall be made to a city official
presenting proof of completion of a training unit for a calendar year within 60
days of the conclusion of the calendar year.
(Ord. 2022-10, passed 12-16-2022)
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.15 REGULAR MEETINGS; DATES, TIMES AND PLACES.
   (A)   Date of regular meetings. Beginning in November of 2019, the regular
monthly meeting date of the City Council shall be the second Monday of each
successive month. In the event that the second Monday falls on a legal holiday,
the regular meeting shall be held on the following business day at the regular
meeting time.
   (B)   Time of regular meetings. Regular meeting of the City Council shall
commence at 6:00 p.m. local prevailing time, unless and until such time as the
Council designates an alternate meeting time for such regular meetings upon
proper motion and vote. Each regular meeting will continue from its
commencement until such time as all tendered business is completed and the
meeting is adjourned by proper motion and vote.
   (C)   Place of regular meetings. All regular meetings of the City Council
shall be commenced, held, and conducted at the City Hall building of the City
of Hodgenville unless and until such time as the Council designates an
alternate location for such regular meeting upon proper motion and vote.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.010) (Ord. passed 7-23-1984; Ord. 2019-9, passed 10-4-2019;
Ord. 2019-13, passed 10-17-2019)
§ 30.16 SALARY.
   The annual salary of City Council person is established at 2% of the maximum
allowable annual compensation of legislative body members of cities other than
first class, as determined by the Department for Local Government each year.
Nothing in this section shall prevent the legislative body by majority vote
reducing or forgoing an annual adjustment to a lesser amount during their
respective term of office. No increase in allowable annual compensation shall
be effective prior to the first day of the succeeding fiscal year or the
adoption of an annual city budget, whichever is later, after publication of the
Department of Local Governments annual revision of maximum allowable
compensation.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 4-19-2018)
OFFICERS
§ 30.30 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   There is created the office of City Clerk-Treasurer, in accordance
with KRS 83A.080 and 83A.085.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.010)
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk-Treasurer shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 to 61.884;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city, if used;
      (4)   Performance of all duties and responsibilities required of the City
Clerk-Treasurer by statute, ordinance or order of the City Council;
      (5)   Receive and safely keep all money belonging to the city;
      (6)   Pay expenses, salaries and other legal debts of the city as
directed by order of the City Council;
      (7)   Keep an accurate account of all receipts and disbursements, showing
when, from whom and to whom, for what purpose and on what account all city
funds were received or paid, and exhibit the account so kept; and
      (8)   Invest and reinvest city funds on behalf of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.020)
   (C)   The oath to be executed by the Clerk-Treasurer shall be that as set
forth in § 228 of the Constitution of the commonwealth.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.030)
   (D)   Before entering on the duties of this office, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall execute bond to the city with a corporate surety authorized and qualified
to become surety on bond in the state in the amount of $50,000 or as
hereinafter set by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.040)
   (E)   Compensation for the office of Clerk-Treasurer shall be in such
amounts as set by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.050)
   (F)   Personnel rules and regulations of the city shall apply to this
office.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.060)
(Ord. passed 12-12-1983; Ord. 91-3, passed - -1991)
§ 30.31 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The city authorizes and approves the hiring of a City Attorney as an
independent contractor by means of a personal services contract containing the
following specific duties and compensation.
   (B)   The Mayor, with the approval of City Council, shall appoint a City
Attorney who shall be the general law officer and legal counsel of the city.
The Mayor may remove the City Attorney, at will, except as otherwise provided
by statue, ordinance or contract. He or she shall be an attorney licensed to
practice in the commonwealth. He or she shall be chosen solely on the basis of
his or her legal qualifications, with special emphasis on actual experience in,
or knowledge of, state municipal and administrative law. The City Attorney may
also engage in the private practice of law and may hold other public or private
employment. The City Attorney may be a solo practice lawyer or a designated
member of a firm of attorneys who collectively act as City Attorney. The
designated lawyer of the firm serving as City Attorney for the city may be
substituted following notice to the City Council and shall become the “City
Attorney” upon approval of the City Council.
   (C)   (1)   The City Attorney shall be the general law officer of the city.
      (2)   He or she shall attend all meetings of the City Council and advise
its members and all other city officials in all matters pertaining to their
duties or affecting the interest of the city.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to supervise the
preparation of all ordinances, municipal orders, contracts and other legal
documents of the city.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to do and perform all
duties of a legal nature concerning the city which may be required by the
Mayor, City Council or by any ordinance of the city.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney, when requested by the
Mayor with the approval of the City Council, to advise concerning the defense
of any action which may be instituted against any agent or employee of the city
by reason of any act or thing done by such agent or employee in the performance
of his or her duty or in the course of his or her employment.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to meet with and advise
duly constituted boards and commissions of the city, except those which are
specifically authorized by state law to retain or employ counsel of their
choosing.
      (7)   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to advise the city in all
cases and in all courts of the state and the United States wherein the city may
be a party plaintiff or defendant or a party of interest. The City Attorney
shall not be required to render any other professional services, including
representing the city in any litigation or legal proceedings whatsoever, unless
independently employed to do so as described in division (E) below.
   (D)   Monthly compensation for the office of City Attorney shall be as set
by the City Council and may be adjusted from time to time.
   (E)   In addition to the salary fixed for the City Attorney by the City
Council, the City Attorney shall receive additional compensation as an
independent contractor for all extraordinary services, including appearances in
legal actions and administrative proceedings and hearings involving the city,
municipal bond issues, real estate acquisitions and dispositions and other
matters beyond the scope of usual legal counsel to the city or requiring an
unusual amount of time. For such extraordinary services, the City Attorney
shall be paid reasonable fees commensurate with the amount and value of time
devoted thereto, based upon charges made by other attorneys for comparable
legal services.
   (F)   No person shall be appointed or act as City Attorney unless that
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
commonwealth and has professional liability coverage acceptable to the City
Council.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 30.32 MAYOR.
   The salary of the Mayor of the city is hereby established at 46% of the
maximum allowable annual compensation of mayors of cities other than first
class as determined by the Department for Local Government (DLG) each year.
Nothing in this section shall prevent the legislative body, by majority vote,
of reducing or forgoing an annual increase to a Mayor’s annual compensation to
the lesser of 46% of DLG’s published maximum amount or any cost of living
increase granted to city employees each year. No increase in allowable annual
compensation shall be effective prior to the first day of the succeeding fiscal
year or the adoption of an annual city budget, whichever is later, after
publication of the DLG’s annual revision of maximum allowable compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.010) (Ord. 2018-3, passed 4-19-2018)
CHAPTER 31: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Police Department
   
31.01   Establishment
   
31.02   Composition
   
31.03   Salary
   
31.04   Powers and duties
Code Enforcement Board
   
31.15   Definitions
   
31.16   Creation and membership
   
31.17   Enforcement powers
   
31.18   Members; appointment; term; removal from office; oath; compensation
   
31.19   Organization; meetings; quorum
   
31.20   Conflict of interest
   
31.21   Powers
   
31.22   Enforcement proceedings
   
31.23   Hearing; notice; final order
   
31.24   Presentation of cases
   
31.25   Appeals; final judgment
   
31.26   Ordinance fine schedule
   
31.27   Lien; fines, charges and fees
   
31.28   Lienholder notification system
   
31.29   Liens
   
31.30   Property abatement schedule
Joint Planning Commission
   
31.40   Creation; appointment
   
31.41   Membership
   
31.42   Officers and staff
   
31.43   Meetings
   
31.44   Bylaws
   
31.45   Powers and duties
Human Rights Commission
   
31.60   Policy
   
31.61   Definitions
   
31.62   Members
   
31.63   Functions
   
31.64   Powers and duties
   
31.65   Meetings
   
31.66   Election of officers
Tourism and Convention Commission
   
31.70   Commission established; title
   
31.71   Members
   
31.72   Terms
   
31.73   Meetings
   
31.74   Director; Treasurer; employees
   
31.75   Request for funds
   
31.76   Transient room tax
   
31.77   Financial records
   
31.78   Auditing
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Police Department of the city is known to have been established on or
prior to 1-13-1947, as evidenced by City Council meeting minutes setting the
monthly salary of the Chief of Police. However, such establishment was not
recorded by ordinance in the minutes or such minutes having been lost, it is
necessary to now establish a Police Department of the city and the same is
hereby established by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 31.02 COMPOSITION.
   The Police Department of the city shall be composed and consist of a Chief
of Police and such other additional police officers as the city may deem
necessary as members of said Police Department.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 31.03 SALARY.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and other police officers, as members of said
Police Department, shall be paid a salary which shall be set from time to time
by the City Council as conditions warrant, and said salary shall be in lieu of
any fees that any member of the Police Department may become entitled to by
law.
   (B)   Any fees that any member of the Police Department may become entitled
to by law shall instead be paid into the City Treasury.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 31.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Chief of Police and other police officers as members of said Police
Department shall have generally those powers and duties necessary to enforce
the laws of the commonwealth and the ordinances of the city and such other
powers and duties as may be established from time to time by the City Council
as conditions warrant.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 2-12-2018)
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 31.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A city’s necessary and reasonable costs for and associated
with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to or demolishing all or a portion
of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to a
structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with §
31.23(E) of this chapter;
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid, nor contested, the
citation within seven days as provided in §
31.22(F) of this chapter; or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
31.23(C) of this chapter.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 31.16 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created within the City of Hodgenville a Code Enforcement
Board which shall be composed of five members, all of whom shall be residents
of the city for a period of at least one year prior to their appointment and
shall reside there throughout the term in office.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2021-8, passed 9-16-2021)
§ 31.17 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 31.18 MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT; TERM; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the
executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of the legislative
body.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of one year;
      (2)   One member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of two years;
and
      (3)   One member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of three
years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (D)   The executive authority may appoint, subject to the approval of the
legislative body, two alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement Board
in the absence of regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of the
qualifications and shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply to
regular members of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (E)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the executive authority,
subject to approval of the legislative body, within 60 days of the vacancy. If
the vacancy is not filled within that time period, the remaining Code
Enforcement Board members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for
the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (F)   A Board member may be removed from office by the executive authority
for misconduct, inefficiency or willful neglect of duty. The executive
authority shall submit a written statement to the member and the legislative
body setting forth the reasons for removal. The member so removed shall have
the right of appeal to the Circuit Court.
   (G)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reimbursed for actual
expenses and compensated in the amount of $50 per meeting, but not to exceed
$100 per month regardless of the number of meetings attended.
   (I)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or non-
elected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 31.19 ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   (1)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a Chair from
among its members.
      (2)   The Chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member
of the Board.
      (3)   In the absence of the Chair, the remaining members of the Board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
Chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held at 5:30
p.m. on the second Tuesday of each month beginning October 2021 at City Hall.
In the event the meeting date should fall on any major holiday or Council
meeting day then the meeting shall fall on that Thursday. Meetings other than
those regularly scheduled shall be special meetings or emergency meetings held
in accordance with the requirements of the state’s Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the state’s Open Meetings Act, being KRS 61.800 et seq.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the Board’s entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of
the Board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of any member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 2021-3, passed 5-10-2021; Ord. 2021-7,
passed 9-16-2021)
§ 31.20 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, shall disqualify himself or herself from voting on the
matter in which he or she has an interest and shall not be counted for purposes
of establishing a quorum.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 31.21 POWERS.
   The city’s Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers and
duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this subchapter;
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction;
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any Code
Enforcement Officer;
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The Chairperson shall have the authority
to administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony;
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce; and
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 31.22 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board.
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant hereto, if a Code
Enforcement Officer believes, based on his or her personal observation or
investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he or she shall
issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged violator a specified period of
time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If the alleged violator
fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified, the Code
Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued;
      (3)   Mailing a copy of the citation by regular first-class mail to the
last known recorded mailing address of the alleged violator; or
      (4)   If, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the issuance of a
citation using the methods set out in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2) or (C)(3) above
is not possible then the citation is properly served by posting a copy of the
citation in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
information as follows:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable:
         (a)   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation; and
         (b)   The civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects to
contest the citation.
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation; the determination that the violation
was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the
person fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation
as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was
committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 31.23 HEARING; NOTICE; FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time and place of the
hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified mail,
return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at the
person’s usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who is
18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   (1)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and
recorded. Testimony shall be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the
alleged violator and any witnesses to the violation offered by the Code
Enforcement Officer or alleged violator.
      (2)   Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due
process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it is determined that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is
determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued upholding the
citation. The Board may impose a fine up to the maximum authorized by
ordinance, or require the offender to remedy a continuing violation to avoid a
fine, or both.
   (F)   (1)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, signed by Board Chairperson, which shall include the findings and
conclusions reached and the date the order was issued. A copy shall be
furnished to the person named in the citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the person by regular first-
class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by
leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 31.24 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   (A)   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city, a Code Enforcement Officer for the city or by a
member of the city’s administrative staff.
   (B)   The City Attorney may either be counsel to the Code Enforcement Board
or may present cases before the Code Enforcement Board, but shall in no case
serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 31.25 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   (1)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board
following a hearing conducted pursuant to KRS 65.8829(7)(c)2 and §
31.23(E) of this chapter may be made to the county’s District Court within 30
days of the date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the
filing of a complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner as any
civil action under the state’s Rules of Civil Procedure.
      (2)   The District Court shall review the final order de novo.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) above, the Code Enforcement Board’s
order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 31.26 ORDINANCE FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the city’s Code Enforcement
Board shall be subject to the following schedule of civil fines:
   (A)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth in this division (A)
shall apply. This fine schedule shall apply in place of any previous individual
ordinance dealing with a like or similar subject matter and is as follows:
Violation 1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Violation                                  1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Abandoned/inoperable vehicles or machinery $50         $100        $150
Animals/fowl/reptiles                      $25         $50         $100
Burning                                    $25         $50         $100
Erosion control                            $25         $50         $100
Garbage/debris/rubbish                     $25         $50         $100
Grass/weeds                                $25         $50         $100
Maintenance of public ways                 $25         $50         $100
Occupation, trade or professional license  $50         $100        $150
Unsafe and unfit structures                $100        $150        $250
Water/sewer                                $50         $150        $250
 
   (B)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum penalties that may be imposed at the discretion
of the Code Enforcement Board as follows:
Violation 1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Violation                                  1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Abandoned/inoperable vehicles or machinery $100        $150        $250
Animals/fowl/reptiles                      $100        $150        $200
Burning                                    $100        $150        $250
Erosion control                            $100        $150        $250
Garbage/debris/rubbish                     $100        $150        $250
Grass/weeds                                $100        $150        $250
Maintenance of public ways                 $100        $150        $250
Occupation, trade or professional license  $500        $750        $1,000
Unsafe and unfit structures                $500        $750        $1,000
Water/sewer                                $100        $150        $250
 
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 31.27 LIEN; FINES, CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a non-appealable final order, as defined by §
31.15 of this chapter, or by a final judgment of the court, to have committed a
violation of a city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed
for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in
connection with the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs. An
affidavit of the Code Enforcement Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence
of the amount of the lien and regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS
65.8801 to 65.8839.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years following the date
of the non-appealable final order or final court judgment.
   (C)   Subject to §
31.29 of this chapter, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens,
except state, county, school board and city taxes, and may be enforced by
judicial proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) above, the person
found to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the
amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all charges, fees
and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of
the ordinance. The city may bring a civil action against the person and shall
have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 31.28 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in §
31.27 of this chapter, in accordance with the following provisions.
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including, but not limited to, lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit to
the City Clerk-Treasurer the information as follows:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   A registrant may use the electronic form provided on the city web site
to submit the information required by division (B) above. It shall be the
responsibility of the registrant to maintain and update the required contact
information with the city. The city shall inform a registrant of any evidence
received that the electronic mailing address is invalid or not functional so
that the registrant may provide an updated electronic mailing address.
   (D)   Once per month, the city shall send electronic mail notification of
all final orders entered pursuant to this subchapter since the last date of
notification to each party registered pursuant to this section. The
notification shall provide an electronic link to the City Code Enforcement
database located on the city web site. The database shall include the following
information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this subchapter,
the city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   The city shall update its Code Enforcement database to reflect the
issued final order, and shall post this notification required by division (D)
above containing an updated link to the Code Enforcement database in a
conspicuous space on the city website, at the same time that it provides the
electronic notification.
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 31.29 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
31.28(B) of this chapter may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of
notification under §
31.28(D) of this chapter:
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary hereunder.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
31.27 of this chapter shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens
if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
31.28 of this chapter for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A) above.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) above shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens,
except liens for state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45-day period established in
division (A) above expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to the
expiration of the 45-day period, the city shall release the lien in the County
Clerk’s office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §
31.28 of this chapter and this section, or failure of a lien to take precedence
over previously filed liens as provided in division (C) above, shall not limit
or restrict any other remedies the city has against the property of the
violator.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 31.30 PROPERTY ABATEMENT SCHEDULE.
   The following is a property abatement schedule. Property abatement occurs
when a cleanup order is approved and signed by the Code Enforcement Board of
the City of Hodgenville.
Item Name/Description Price
Item Name/Description                  Price
Garbage cleanup                        $75 PL/HR*
Tree/brush cleanup                     $75 PL/HR*
Mowing of property                     $75 PL/HR*
Administrative enforcement fee         $50
Administrative final/cleanup order fee $25
Administrative lien recording fee      $50
Administrative lien release fee        $50
Certified mail service fee             $10
Demolition                             Price by contractor
Reserved                               $0
 
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 12-13-2021)
JOINT PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.40 CREATION; APPOINTMENT.
   This Commission shall be known as the “Land of Lincoln Planning Commission”.
Upon the appointment and subsequent approval of member, election of officers
and adoption of its bylaws, its existence shall begin subject to the provisions
of KRS Ch. 100. The commission may engage in planning operations within its
jurisdiction, which shall be coterminous with its political boundary, except
where otherwise provided for by KRS 100.131.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.010) (Ord. passed 11-1-1966)
§ 31.41 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of 12 members. The County Judge and
the Mayor of the city, with the approval of their respective legislative
bodies, shall appoint four members each, said members to be known as citizen
members. Four members shall be known as ex officio members because of their
elected public office. Said ex officio members shall be as follows: the County
Judge and the Mayor of the city; and one of the administrative officials of the
county and one from the city, selected by the Judge and Mayor respectively; or
one member of each legislative body, selected by that body. All ex officio
members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, but reimbursement
of expense may be authorized. Citizen members shall serve without compensation,
but reimbursement of expenses may be authorized. The term of office of ex
officio members shall correspond to their respective official terms. The term
of office of citizen members shall be four years; except that, the original
terms shall be staggered so that a proportionate number serve one, two, three
and four years, respectively. Reappointments or appointments to fill vacancies
shall continue the staggered pattern. All vacancies, whether by resignation,
dismissal or expiration of the term of office shall be filled within 60 days by
the appropriate appointing authority as otherwise provided for in KRS 100.147.
The oath of office shall be administered to all members of the Commission
before entering upon their duties. The oath shall be administered as provided
by law. A citizen member may be removed by the appropriate appointing authority
for inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance or conflict of interest. The
removed member shall have the right of appeal in the manner prescribed by KRS
100.157.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.020) (Ord. passed 11-1-1966)
§ 31.42 OFFICERS AND STAFF.
   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson and any other officers it deems
necessary from among its citizen members. The term of office shall be one year
with eligibility for reelection. The Commission may employ a staff as it may
deem necessary for its work and may contract with professional planners and
other parties for such services as it may require.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.030) (Ord. passed 11-1-1966)
§ 31.43 MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall conduct each year at least six regular meetings for the
transaction of its business. The bylaws adopted by the Commission shall reflect
the schedule of regular meetings; the manner in which notice shall be given;
date, time, place and the subject or subjects to be discussed, as well as the
method of calling and conducting special meetings. A simple majority of the
total membership shall constitute a quorum. After a quorum has been
established, a simple majority of that quorum can transact any official
business, except in those instances where there is no adoption or amendment of
the Commission’s bylaws or elements of the comprehensive plan or regulations;
then a vote of the simple majority of the total membership shall be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.040) (Ord. passed 11-1-1966)
§ 31.44 BYLAWS.
   The Commission shall adopt and approve its bylaws before it may properly
transact any business. The bylaws shall set forth the procedures, rules and
regulations necessary for the Commission to conduct its business. The bylaws
shall describe the method for administration of funds and provide for an annual
audit thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.050) (Ord. passed 11-1-1966)
§ 31.45 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have general powers necessary to carry out its
functions in accordance with this chapter and KRS Ch. 100. The Commission may
be assigned any powers, duties and functions related to urban renewal or public
housing by the Fiscal Court of the county and/or the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.060) (Ord. passed 11-1-1966)
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
§ 31.60 POLICY.
   It is the public policy of the city to promote fair treatment and equal
opportunity for all persons regardless of race, color, religion, sex, age or
national origin.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.010) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976)
§ 31.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Hodgenville Commission on Human Rights.
   COMMISSIONER. A member of the Commission.
   DISCRIMINATION. Any direct or indirect act or practice of exclusion,
distinction, restriction, segregation, limitation, refusal, denial or any other
act or practice or differentiation or preference in the treatment of a person
because of race, color, religion, sex, age or national origin.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.020) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976)
§ 31.62 MEMBERS.
   There is created a Commission on Human Rights. It shall consist of nine
members who shall be appointed on a bipartisan basis and shall be broadly
representative of employers, proprietors, trade unions, religious groups, human
rights groups and the general public. The Mayor shall appoint the members. Of
the first nine members appointed, three shall be appointed for one year, three
shall be appointed for two years and three for three years; after the first
appointments, all appointments shall be for a term of three years. In the event
of incapacity, death or resignation of any member, a successor shall be
appointed for the unexpired term of the withdrawing member. Members shall be
eligible for reappointment for additional terms. Before making new
appointments, the Mayor shall request the recommendations of the Commission. No
elected or appointed city official shall be a member of the Commission. The
members shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.030) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976)
§ 31.63 FUNCTIONS.
   The Commission shall encourage fair treatment and equal opportunity for all
persons regardless of race, color, religion, sex, age or national origin; and
shall promote mutual understanding and respect among all economic, social,
racial, religious and ethnic groups; and shall endeavor to eliminate
discrimination against, and antagonism between, religious, racial and ethnic
groups and their members.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.040) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976)
§ 31.64 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   In performing its functions, the Commission shall have the following powers
and duties:
   (A)   To accept gifts or bequests, grants or other payments, public or
private, to help finance its activities;
   (B)   To recommend methods for elimination of discrimination and intergroup
tensions and to use its best efforts to secure compliance with its
recommendations;
   (C)   To cooperate with other intergroup relations agencies, both public and
private, on the local, state and national level;
   (D)   To cooperate with the various departments, agencies and boards of the
city and of the commonwealth in effectuating the purposes of this subchapter;
   (E)   To enlist the support of civic, labor, religious, professional and
educational organizations and institutions in community activities and programs
that will further the goals of this subchapter;
   (F)   To organize community committees and councils that will work toward
the goals of this subchapter;
   (G)   To recommend legislation to the city legislative body and modes of
executive action to the mayor that will effectuate the purposes of this
subchapter;
   (H)   To submit an annual report of its activities and of the progress and
problems in intergroup relations in the community to the Mayor and the city
legislative body; and
   (I)   To adopt, promulgate, amend and rescind rules and regulations to
effectuate the policies and provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.050) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976)
§ 31.65 MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall meet as often as it deems necessary, but it shall meet
not less than once each month.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.060) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976)
§ 31.66 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, Secretary-
Treasurer and such other officers as it deems necessary. The Chairperson shall
appoint such committees as the Commission may deem necessary in order to carry
out its functions.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.070) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976)
TOURISM AND CONVENTION COMMISSION
§ 31.70 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; TITLE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Convention and Tourist Commission for
the city pursuant to KRS 91A.350 for the purpose of promoting and developing
convention activities and tourist activities and facilities in the the city.
   (B)   The official name of the body herein created shall be designated as
“the City of Hodgenville Tourism and Convention Commission.”
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 31.71 MEMBERS.
   The members of the Commission herein established shall be appointed pursuant
to KRS 91A.360 in the following matter. There shall be seven members appointed
by the City Mayor as follows:
   (A)   Two Commissioners shall be appointed from a list of three or more
names submitted by the local city hotel and motel association and one
Commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three or more names submitted by
the local county hotel and motel association; provided if only one local and
motel association exists which covers both the city and county, then three
Commissioners shall be appointed from a list of six or more names submitted by
it. In the event that no formal local city or county hotel and motel
association is in existence upon the establishment of the Commission or upon
expiration of the term of a Commissioner appointed pursuant to this section,
then up to three Commissioners shall be appointed by the City Mayor from
persons residing within the jurisdiction of the Commission and representing
local hotels or motels.
   (B)   One Commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three or more names
submitted by the local restaurant association or associations. If no formal
local restaurant association or associations exist upon the establishment of
the Commission or upon the expiration of the term of a Commissioner appointed
pursuant to this section, then one Commissioner shall be appointed by the City
Mayor from persons residing within the city representing a local restaurant.
   (C)   One Commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three or more names
submitted by the Chamber of Commerce.
   (D)   Two Commissioners shall be appointed by the City Mayor.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 31.72 TERMS.
   (A)   The Commissioners shall be appointed for terms of three years,
provided, that in making the initial appointments, the City Mayor shall appoint
two Commissioners for a term of three years, two Commissioners for a term of
two years and three Commissioners for a term of one year. There shall be no
limitation on the number of terms to which a Commissioner is reappointed.
Subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years.
   (B)   The Chairman of the Commission and the remaining members of the
Commission shall serve on a voluntary basis.
   (C)   In the event a vacancy shall occur on the Commission, the replacement
shall be appointed as prescribed above for the remaining terms of the
Commissioner who created a vacancy.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 31.73 MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall meet at least monthly and have special meetings which
may be called by the Chairman or any two Commissioners upon giving a five day
advance oral or written notice. The Commission shall elect a Chairman at its
first meeting following its establishment and annually on its first meeting in
July of each subsequent year. The Commission shall further elect a Vice-
Chairman to preside over meetings in the absence of the Chairman. Action may be
taken by a majority vote of the Commissioners at any properly convened meeting
at which a quorum is present The Commission shall have the powers specified by
the Kentucky Revised Statues.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 31.74 DIRECTOR; TREASURER; EMPLOYEES.
   The Mayor shall appoint a Director, a Treasurer and may employ personnel and
make contracts necessary to carry out the purpose of KRS 91A.350 to 91A.390.
The contracts may include, but shall not be limited to, the procurement of
promotional services, advertising services, and other services and materials
relating to the promotion of tourist and convention business. Contracts of the
type enumerated shall be made only with persons, organizations, and firms with
experience and qualifications for providing promotional services and materials,
such as advertising firms, chambers of commerce, publishers, and printers.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 31.75 REQUEST FOR FUNDS.
   Pursuant to KRS 91A.390, the Commission shall annually submit to the City
Council a request for funds for the operations of the Commission. To provide
funds for the operation of the Commission, there is imposed a transient room
tax of 3% percent on the rent of each occupancy of a suite, room or rooms,
charged by all persons, companies, corporations, or other like or similar
persons, groups or organizations during business as motor courts, motels,
hotels, ins, or like or similar accommodations businesses. The transient room
tax shall not apply to the rental or leasing of an apartment supplied by an
individual or business that regularly holds itself out as exclusively providing
apartments. APARTMENT means a room or set of rooms, fitted especially with a
kitchen and usually leased as a dwelling for a minimum period of 30 days or
more.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 31.76 TRANSIENT ROOM TAX.
   (A)   The transient room tax shall be collected by the operators of the
businesses described in § 40.05 and be paid over to the city and the said city
is authorized to take all appropriate actions to provide for the collection and
enforcement of these taxes, as required by KRS 91A.390(1). The proceeds of this
tax shall be paid on a monthly basis. Each collecting agent shall file a return
in duplicate on a form which is provided for such purpose. The failure to
properly fill out and return said reporting form and the taxes shall be subject
to such civil and criminal penalties as are available in the Kentucky Revised
Statutes for failure to make required disposition of property as provided by
the Kentucky Revised Statutes and this section. In addition, the failure to pay
said taxes within the required time set out above, a penalty of 6% shall be
added to the amount due.
   (B)   All tax moneys received by the city from the collection of the 3%
transient room tax shall be immediately disbursed to the Tourism and Convention
Commission to be used for the purpose of promoting and developing convention
and tourist activities and facilities.
   (C)   All moneys collected from the transient room tax and any restaurant
tax which may be hereinafter imposed, shall be maintained in an account
separate and unique from all other funds and revenues collected and shall be
considered tax revenue for the purposes of KRS 68.100 and KRS 92.330.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 31.77 FINANCIAL RECORDS.
   The Treasurer and any other officer of the Commission writing checks and/or
handling funds shall be bonded in an amount commensurate with the largest
amount of money on hand in any given year. The Commission shall make an
itemized quarterly finance report to the City Council showing the expenses and
income for each month and shall further present copies of its annual budget to
said governmental entities.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 31.78 AUDITING.
   Pursuant to KRS 91A.360(5), the books of the Commission and its account as
established pursuant to § 40.06(C) hereof shall be audited as provided in KRS
65A.030. The independent certified public accountant or Auditor of Public
Accounts shall make a report to the Commission, to the associations submitting
lists of names from which Commission members are selected, to the City Mayor,
to the State Auditor of Public Accounts and to the City Council. A copy of the
audit report shall be made available by the Commission to members of the public
upon request at no charge.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-10-2023)
CHAPTER 32: PERSONNEL
Section
   
32.01   Personnel plan
   
32.02   Self-insurance program
§ 32.01 PERSONNEL PLAN.
   (A)   The classification plan, compensation plan, policies and procedures
attached to the ordinance codified in this section and on file in the office of
the City Clerk-Treasurer shall be the system of personnel administration for
the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.010)
   (B)   The classification plan, compensation plan and policies and procedures
referred to in division (A) above may be waived, altered or suspended only by a
change of ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.020)
(Ord. passed 8-11-1986; Ord. 12-05-01, passed 12-12-2005; Ord. 2015-02, passed
- -2015; Ord. 2015-05, passed 6-11-2015; Ord. 2015-06, passed 6-8-2015; Ord.
2015-10, passed 6-11-2015)
§ 32.02 SELF-INSURANCE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The city approves the joint and cooperative program for self-
insurance, insurance and the investment of public funds among the city and the
other cities, urban-county governments and public agencies within the
commonwealth which become signatories to the interlocal agreement, including
the financing of said program through the issuance of revenue bonds under the
terms and conditions of the interlocal agreement.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.010)
   (B)   The Mayor and the City Clerk-Treasurer are authorized and directed to
execute, acknowledge and deliver, on behalf of the city, the interlocal
agreement, substantially in the form attached to the ordinance codified in this
section.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.020)
   (C)   The city approves and ratifies the articles of association and bylaws
of the state’s Municipal Risk Management Association (“Association”)
substantially in the form attached to the ordinance codified herein and on file
in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.030)
   (D)   It is understood by the city that by executing the interlocal
agreement and thereby becoming a member of the association, the city shall
incur no liability for the payment of any funds and that it shall be necessary
for the city to take further action prior to becoming a participating member in
any of the self-insurance, insurance or investment trusts which may be created
by the Association.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.040)
   (E)   The effectiveness of this section is expressly conditioned upon the
final approval of the interlocal agreement, substantially in the form attached
to the ordinance codified in this section, by the Attorney General of the
commonwealth, as required by KRS 65.260(2), and by any other officer or agency
of the commonwealth, as may be required by KRS 65.300.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.050)
(Ord. passed 6-8-1987)
CHAPTER 33: CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Title
   
33.002   Findings
   
33.003   Purpose and authority
   
33.004   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
33.015   Conflicts of interest in general
   
33.016   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
33.017   Incompatible offices
   
33.018   Withdrawal from participation
   
33.019   Receipt of gifts
   
33.020   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
33.021   Representation of interests before city government
   
33.022   Misuse of confidential information
   
33.023   Political solicitation
   
33.024   Patronage
   
33.025   Outside employment
   
33.026   Post-employment restriction
   
33.027   Fees and honoraria
   
33.028   Endorsements
   
33.029   Complicity with or knowledge of others’ violations
   
33.030   Falsely impugning reputation
   
33.031   Meeting attendance
   
33.032   Nepotism
Financial Disclosure
   
33.045   Who must file
   
33.046   When to file statements; amended statements
   
33.047   Form of statement of financial interests
   
33.048   Control and maintenance of statements of financial interests
   
33.049   Contents of financial interest statements
   
33.050   Non-compliance with filing requirement
Ethics Commission
   
33.065   Created
   
33.066   Alternate members
   
33.067   Facilities and staff
   
33.068   Initial meeting
   
33.069   Powers and duties
   
33.070   Training and education
   
33.071   Annual reports; review
   
33.072   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
33.073   Notice of hearings
   
33.074   Hearing procedure
   
33.075   Appeals
   
33.076   Limitation of actions
   
33.077   Advisory opinions
   
33.078   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
33.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Hodgenville,
Kentucky Code of Ethics”.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.002 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of the city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of the city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.003 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which may arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003, as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint-stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation or any legal entity through which business is conducted for profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY. The City of Hodgenville, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation, other
entity created, either individually or jointly, by the city.
   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Information obtained in the course of holding
public office or employment, or as a contractor to the city, which is not
available to members of the public and which the officer or employee is not
authorized to disclose, except to designated individuals or bodies, including
written and non-written information. When such information is also available
through channels open to the public, officers and employees are not prohibited
from disclosing the availability of those channels.
   CONSULTANT. An independent contractor or professional person or entity
engaged by the city or advising a city officer, and in a position to influence
a city decision or action, or have access to confidential information.
   CUSTOMER or CLIENT.
      (1)   Any person or entity to which a person or entity has supplied goods
or services during the previous 24 months, having a total value greater than
$1,000; or
      (2)   Any person or entity to which an officer or employee’s outside
employer or business has supplied goods or services during the previous 24
months, having a total value greater than $1,000, but only if the officer or
employee knows or has reason to know the outside employer or business supplied
the goods or services.
   DOMESTIC PARTNER. An adult, unrelated by blood, with which an unmarried or
separated officer or employee has an exclusive committed relationship,
maintains a mutual residence and shares basic living expenses.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time, part-time, seasonal or temporary,
and whether paid or unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city.
The term EMPLOYEE shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of
their employees.
   ETHICS COMMISSION or COMMISSION. The City of Hodgenville Ethics Commission
which is created and vested by this chapter with the responsibility of
enforcing the requirements or the city’s Code of Ethics.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, domestic partner, parent, step-parent, child, step-
child, brother, step-brother, sister, step-sister, mother-in-law, father-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   FINANCIAL BENEFIT. Includes any money, service, license, permit, contract,
authorization, loan, discount, travel, entertainment, hospitality, gratuity or
any promise of any of these, or anything else of value. This term does not
include campaign contributions authorized by law.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST. A relationship to something such that a direct or
indirect financial benefit has been, or will be, or might be received as a
result of it.
   HOUSEHOLD. Includes anyone whose primary residence is in the officer or
employee’s home, including non-relatives who are not rent payers or servants.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, domestic partner, an unemancipated child
or step- child residing in the officer’s or employee’s household, or a person
claimed by the officer or employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a
dependent for tax purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A legislative body member;
      (3)   The City Clerk-Treasurer;
      (4)   Any person who occupies a non-elected office created under KRS
83A.080, such as, but not limited to, the City Attorney and City Police Chief;
or
      (5)   A member of any city agency who has been appointed by the city.
   OFFICIAL ACT. Any legislative, administrative, appointive or discretionary
act of any public official or employee of the city or any agency, board,
committee or commission hereof.
   PERSONAL BENEFIT. Includes benefits other than those that are directly
financially advantageous. These include financial benefits to relatives,
business associates and others listed herein, as well as non-financial benefits
to these people and to oneself, including such things as reputation and the
success of one’s career.
   PERSONAL INTEREST. A relationship to something such that a personal benefit
has been, will be or might be obtained by certain action or inaction with
respect to it.
   RELATIVE. A spouse, child, step-child, brother, step-brother sister,
stepsister, parent or step- parent, or a person claimed as a dependent on the
officer or employee’s latest individual state income tax return.
   SUBORDINATE. Another official or employee over whose activities an official
or employee has direction, supervision or control.
   TRANSACTION. Any matter, including, but not limited to, contracts, work or
business with the city, the sale or purchase of real estate by the city and any
request for zoning amendments, variances or special permits pending before the
city, upon which a public officer or employee performs an official act or
action.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 33.015 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted (or unsolicited)
privileges or advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or fail to take any
discretionary action, or agree to take or fail to take any discretionary
action, or influence or attempt to influence any other officer or employee to
take or fail to take any discretionary action, on any matter before the city in
order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family
member, has a financial interest, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   An outside employer or business of his or hers, or of his or her
family member, or someone who works for such outside employer or business;
         (b)   A customer or client; and
         (c)   A substantial debtor or creditor of his or hers, or of his or
her family member.
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship;
      (6)   A person or entity from whom the officer or employee has received
an election campaign contribution of a total of more than $200 during the past
election cycle (this amount includes contributions from a person’s immediate
family or business as well as contributions from an entity’s owners, directors
or officers, as well as contributions to the officer or employee’s party town
committee or non-candidate political committee); or
      (7)   A non-governmental civil group, social, charitable or religious
organization of which he or she (or his or her immediate family member) is an
officer or director.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no personal or financial benefit accrues to
the officer or employee, a family member, an outside employer or a business as
defined in divisions (C)(4) through (C)(7) above, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession or other group, to any greater extent than any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession or other group.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.016 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 61.252, no officer or employee of the city or any city
agency shall directly or through others undertake, execute, hold or enjoy, in
whole or in part, any contract made, entered into, awarded or granted by the
city or a city agency, except as follows.
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city office,
before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency office or
before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However, if a
contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee before he or
she became a candidate, was appointed to office or was hired as an employee, is
renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the appointed office or
is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in division (A) above shall apply
to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (A)(3)
below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply in any case
where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency;
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed;
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency before the contract is executed
because of price, limited supply or other specific reasons; and
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into
in violation of this section.
      (2)   Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.017 INCOMPATIBLE OFFICES.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 165 of the state’s Constitution, no officer or employee
of the city may also be a state officer, deputy state officer or member of the
General Assembly or may fill more than one municipal office at the same time,
whether in the same or a different city.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 61.080, no city officer may also hold a county office.
In addition, the statute also states that the following city and consolidated
local government offices are incompatible with any other public office:
      (1)   Member of the legislative body of cities of the first class;
      (2)   Mayor and member of the legislative body in cities of the home rule
class; and
      (3)   Mayor and member of the legislative council of a consolidated local
government.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to the Constitution and statutory provisions, there
are common law incompatibilities that are defined by the courts.
      (2)   City officers and employment positions are deemed incompatible when
one office or position of employment was inherently inconsistent in function
with the other when there arises an implication that the duties and
responsibilities of both cannot be performed at the same time with a necessary
degree of impartiality and honesty.
   (D)   KRS 61.090 provides that the acceptance of an incompatible office
operates to vacate the first office.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.018 WITHDRAWAL FROM PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   An officer or employee must refrain from acting on or discussing,
formally or informally, a matter before the city, if acting on the matter, or
failing to act on the matter, may personally or financially benefit any of the
persons or entities listed in §
33.015(C) of this chapter. Such an officer or employee should join the public
if the withdrawal occurs at a public meeting, or leave the room if it is a
legally conducted closed meeting (executive session) under KRS 61.810 and KRS
61.815.
   (B)   Withdrawal at a meeting requires the public announcement, on the
record, of the reason for withdrawal.
   (C)   An officer or employee whose outside employment or other outside
activity or relationship can reasonably be expected to require more than
sporadic withdrawal must resign or cease such outside employment or activity.
An officer or employee should not begin employment or an activity or
relationship that can reasonably be expected to require more than sporadic
withdrawal, if a prospective officer or employee is in such a situation, he or
she should not accept the position with the city.
   (D)   If an officer or appointed member is requested to withdraw from
participation in matter, for the reason that he or she has a conflict of
interest, by the following, the member must decide whether to withdraw on the
official record. If the member decides not to withdraw, the unchallenged
members must consider any relevant evidence concerning such claimed conflict of
interest, as defined in this code, and vote whether or not to allow the request
and require that the member withdraw from participating in the matter:
      (1)   Another member;
      (2)   A party to the current matter; or
      (3)   Anyone else who may be affected by a decision relating to this
matter.
   (E)   If withdrawal by the member would leave the body with less than a
quorum capable of acting, the member must disclose the conflict on the public
record, then the remaining members may vote to allow the member with the
disclosed conflict a vote. If the person is the only one authorized by law to
act, the person must disclose the nature and circumstances of the conflict to
the Ethics Commission and ask for a waiver or advisory opinion.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.019 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city, agency shall directly,
or indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
   (B)   Certain items are typically excluded from this provision. Examples of
these items include:
      (1)   Gifts received from relatives;
      (2)   Gifts accepted on behalf of the city and transferred to the city;
      (3)   Reasonable travel and travel-related expenses, cost of admission,
food and beverages and entertainment furnished in connection with certain
specified public events, appearances, ceremonies, economic development
activities or fact-finding trips related to official government business;
      (4)   Usual and customary loans made in the ordinary course of business;
      (5)   Awards, including certificates, plaques and commemorative tokens
presented in recognition of public service; and
      (6)   Informational, promotional and educational items.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.020 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; and
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.021 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceedings, application or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing another employee or employees where the representation is within
the context of official labor union or similar representational
responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.022 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city of any city agency shall
intentionally use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her
official duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further
his or her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
   (B)   Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to
disclosure pursuant to the state’s Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884, at
the time of its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.023 POLITICAL SOLICITATION.
   An officer, employee or municipal candidate may not knowingly request, or
authorize anyone else to request, that any subordinate or potential future
subordinate participate, or not participate, in any political activity,
including the making of a campaign contribution; nor may he or she engage in
any political activity while on duty for the city, with the use of city funds,
supplies, vehicles or facilities, in uniform or during any period of time
during which he or she is normally expected to perform services for the city,
for which compensation is paid.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.024 PATRONAGE.
   No officer or employee may promise an appointment or the use of his or her
influence to obtain an appointment to any position as a reward for any
political activity or contribution.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.025 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   An officer or employee shall not accept any employment or enter into
any contracts that result in a conflict of interest with his or her duties as
an officer or employee of the city.
   (B)   An employee of the city may be self-employed or may take occasional or
part-time jobs if, in the opinion of his or her department head, there is no
conflict with working hours, the employee’s efficiency in his or her city work
or other interest of the city.
   (C)   Employees wishing to take off-duty employment shall have the written
approval of their department head.
   (D)   Employees or officers holding management level positions shall notify
the Mayor prior to creating, contracting with or being employed by any agency
or business firm other than the city for their written approval.
   (E)   City employment shall remain the first priority and if, at any time,
the outside employment interferes with an employee’s job requirements or
performance for the city, the employee shall be required to modify the
conditions of the outside employment or terminate either the off-duty
employment or his or her city employment.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.026 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency or receive compensation for
services rendered on behalf of any person in relation to any particular matter
with respect to any matter on which the officer or employee personally worked
while in the service of the city or city agency for a period of one year after
the termination of the officer’s or employee’s service with the city or city
agency.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.027 FEES AND HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation or honorarium in consideration of an appearance, speech or article
unless the appearance, speech or article is both related to the officer’s or
employee’s activities outside of municipal service and is unrelated to the
officer’s or employee’s service with the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech or article;
provided that, the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing
evidence that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or
city agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.028 ENDORSEMENTS.
   No officer or employee in his or her official capacity may publicly endorse
products or services. However, this does not prohibit an officer or employee
from answering inquiries by other governmental officials, consumer
organizations or product information services regarding products or services.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.029 COMPLICITY WITH OR KNOWLEDGE OF OTHERS’ VIOLATIONS.
   No officer or employee may, directly or indirectly, induce, encourage or aid
anyone to violate any provision of this code. If an officer or employee
suspects that someone has violated this code, he or she is required to report
it to the Ethics Commission pursuant to §
33.071 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.030 FALSELY IMPUGNING REPUTATION.
   An officer or employee may not falsely impugn the reputation of a city
resident, employee or another officer of the city. If an officer or employee
believes his or her accusation to be true, and then learns that it was false,
even in part, he or she should apologize in the same forum the accusations were
made. A failure to so apologize within a reasonable period of time after
learning of the falsity of the accusations will create the presumption that the
conduct was fully intentional.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.031 MEETING ATTENDANCE.
   All elected city officers and members of city boards and commissions are
expected to attend their meetings. It is a violation of this code to miss more
than one-third of the meetings in a 12-month period.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.032 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the following of a family member to an office or position of
employment with the city or a city agency:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member; except that, this prohibition
shall not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or
participating in the development of a budget which includes compensation for a
family member; provided that, the family member is included only as a member of
a class of persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater
extent than any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 33.045 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Ethics
Commission:
   (A)   Elected city officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office;
   (C)   Officers and employees who hold policymaking positions, including
members of municipal boards, such as ethics commissions, finance boards,
planning and zoning boards, boards of zoning, buildings and assessment appeals,
wetlands and conservation-boards, economic development boards and parks and
recreation boards;
   (D)   Officers or employees whose job descriptions or whose actual duties
involve:
      (1)   The negotiation, authorization or approval of contracts, leases,
franchise, revocable consents, concessions, variances, special permits or
licenses;
      (2)   The purchase, sale, rental or lease of real property, personal
property, or services, or a contract for any of these; and
      (3)   The obtaining of grants of money or loans.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.046 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this
section shall be filed with the Ethics Commission, or the administrative
official designated as the custodian of its records by the Ethics Commission,
no later than 5:00 p.m. on 1-1-2016.
      (2)   All subsequent statements of financial interests shall be filed no
later than 5:00 p.m. on January 1 each year, with the following provisions.
         (a)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment.
         (b)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial
statement no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a
candidate for elected city office.
   (B)   The Ethics Commission may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial that has been filed with the Commission, the office or employee
shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material change, file
an amended statement with the Commission.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.047 FORM OF STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form
prescribed by the Ethics Commission or the administrative official designated
by the Ethics Commission.
   (B)   The Commission, or the designated administrative official, shall
deliver a copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the
statement, by first class mail, e-mail or hand delivery, no later than December
1 of each year.
   (C)   The failure of the Commission, or the designated administrative
official, to deliver a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not
relieve the officer or employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.048 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Ethics Commission shall be the “official custodian” of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests
shall be maintained by the Commission, or the administrative official
designated by the Commission as the “custodian”, as public documents, available
for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the
Commission, or the designated administrative official, pursuant to the state’s
Department of Libraries and Archives schedule as follows.
      (1)   Upon expiration of two years after a person ceases to be an officer
or employee of the city or a city agency, the Commission shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of two years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Commission
shall cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of
those statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.049 CONTENTS OF FINANCIAL INTEREST STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer’s immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution and the like);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential or rural, and the location
of all real property within the county, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year; and
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for personal, family or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.050 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Ethics Commission, or the designated administrative
official, shall notify by certified mail each person required to file a
statement of financial interests who fails to file the statement by the due
date, files an incomplete statement or files a statement in a form other than
that prescribed by the Commission.
      (2)   The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who
fails or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice
under division (A) above within the time period established in the notice shall
be guilty of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by
the Commission in an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total
civil fine of $500.
      (2)   Any civil fine imposed by the Commission under this section may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
fails or refuses to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
ETHICS COMMISSION
§ 33.065 CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created an Ethics Commission which shall have the
authorities, duties and responsibilities, as set forth in this chapter, to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Ethics Commission shall consist of three members who shall be
appointed by the executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of
the legislative body. The initial members of the Ethics Commission shall be
appointed within 60 days of the effective date of this chapter. The members
shall serve for a term of three years; except that, with respect to the members
initially appointed, one member shall be appointed for a term of one year, one
member shall be appointed for a term of two years and one member shall be
appointed for a term of three years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for
a term of three years.
   (C)   An Ethics Commission member may be reappointed for any number of
consecutive terms.
   (D)   No member of the Ethics Commission, nor any family member of a member
of the Ethics Commission, shall hold any elected or appointed office, whether
paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city or any city agency.
   (E)   Each member of the Ethics Commission shall have been a resident of the
city for at least one year prior to the date of the appointment and shall
reside in the city throughout the term in office. The members of the Ethics
Commission shall be chosen by virtue of their known and consistent reputation
for integrity and their knowledge of local government affairs.
   (F)   A member of the Ethics Commission may be removed by the executive
authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body for misconduct,
inability or willful neglect of duties. Before any member of the Commission is
removed from office under this division (F), the member shall be afforded the
opportunity for a hearing before the executive authority and the legislative
body.
   (G)   Vacancies on the Ethics Commission shall be filled within 60 days by
the executive authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body. If a
vacancy is not filled by the executive authority within 60 days, the remaining
members of the Ethics Commission shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be
filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (H)   Members of the Ethics Commission shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the legislative body, but shall be reimbursed for
all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
   (I)   The Ethics Commission shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a Chairperson from among the
membership. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Commission.
   (J)   Meetings of the Ethics Commission shall be held, as necessary, upon
the call of the Chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the
members.
   (K)   The presence of two or more members shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of two or more members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the Ethics Commission who has a conflict of
interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Commission shall
disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself from
voting on the matter and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum.
   (L)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Ethics Commission and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Commission shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.066 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The executive authority of the city, with the approval of the legislative
body, may appoint one alternate member of the Ethics Commission who may be
called upon to serve when any regular member of the Board is unable to
discharge his or her duties. An alternate member shall be appointed for a term
of one year. Alternate members shall meet all qualifications and be subject to
all of the requirements of this chapter that apply to regular members.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.067 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the legislative body in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Ethics Commission, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.068 INITIAL MEETING.
   (A)   At its first meeting upon establishment and each January of the
calendar year thereafter, the Ethics Commission will elect a Chair and a Vice-
Chair from among its regular members.
   (B)   A majority of the regular members is required for the Commission to
take any action.
   (C)   The Chair or a majority of the regular members may call a meeting of
the Commission.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.069 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Ethics Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To receive and investigate complaints, hold hearings and make findings
of fact and determinations with regard to alleged violations of the provisions
of this chapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Commission who has
the power to administer oaths;
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Commission;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
executive authority of the city, the city legislative body, the governing body
of any city agency, the County Attorney or other appropriate person or body, as
necessary;
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provisions or this chapter;
   (F)   To enforce all provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter;
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the state’s Open Records Act, being KRS 61.870 et seq.;
   (H)   To prepare and submit an annual report and any recommended changes to
this code to the legislative body and to develop and submit any reports
regarding the conduct of its business that may be required by the executive
authority or legislative body of the city;
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter; provided that, the
rules, regulations and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law;
   (J)   To provide training and education on the city’s Ethics Code to
officials and employees;
   (K)   The Ethics Commission will annually review the list of officials and
employees required to file annual disclosure statements to determine whether
the lists are complete and accurate. Within 90 days after it has been formed,
and by February 1 each year thereafter, the Ethics Commission must:
      (1)   Cause to be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer a list of the names
and offices, or positions, of all officials and employees and others required
to file annual disclosure statements pursuant to §
33.045 of this chapter; and
      (2)   Notify all such persons of their obligation to file an annual
disclosure statement.
   (L)   The Ethics Commission will prepare forms for complaints and for
financial disclosure statements and will make these forms available at the City
Clerk-Treasurer’s office; and
   (M)   By February 1 of each year, the Ethics Commission must review all
annual financial disclosure statements filed with it to determine whether any
person required to file such a statement has failed to file it, has filed a
deficient statement, or has filed a statement that reveals a possible or
potential violation of this chapter. If the Commission determines that an
annual or transactional disclosure statement is deficient or reveals a possible
or potential violation of this code, the Commission will notify the person in
writing of that deficiency or possible or potential violation, and of the
penalties for failure to comply with this code.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.070 TRAINING AND EDUCATION.
   The Ethics Commission will, within one year after its passage, make this
code, and explanations of its provisions (including information on how to fill
out all forms and statements), available to all officials and employees,
candidates and consultants and to municipal residents and to all persons doing
business or interested in doing business with the city, and will develop
educational materials and a required educational program for the officials and
employees of the city regarding the provisions of this code. The educational
program must begin within 18 months after this code goes into effect. In
addition, the Ethics Commission will hold an annual workshop for new and
experienced officials and employees to discuss this code, its values and goals,
its enforcement and the ways in which it has affected their work and the
working of the city government.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.071 ANNUAL REPORTS; REVIEW.
   (A)   The Ethics Commission must prepare and submit an annual report to the
legislative body, summarizing the activities, decisions and advisory opinions
of the Commission. The report may also recommend changes to the text or
administration of this chapter. The report must be submitted no later than
March 31 of each year, covering to the year ended December 31, and must be
filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer and made available to any interested person
upon request.
   (B)   The Ethics Commission will periodically (no less than every five
years) review this chapter, the enforcement of the chapter and the Commission’s
rules, regulations and administrative procedures to determine whether they
promote integrity, public confidence and participation in city government, and
whether they set forth clear and enforceable, common-sense standards of
conduct.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.072 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Ethics Commission, or the administrative
official designated by the Ethics Commission. All complaints shall be in
writing, signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements
established by the Commission. The Commission shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date of receipt.
The Commission shall forward within ten working days to each officer or
employee of the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy
of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Ethics Commission may, on its own initiative, determine through an
inquiry into informal allegations or information provided directly to the
Commission, by referral in the public news media, or otherwise that a violation
of this chapter may exist, and prepare a complaint of its own. The Ethics
Commission may also amend a complaint that has been filed with it by adding
further allegations, by adding respondents involved in the same conduct,
directly or indirectly, by action or inaction, or by deleting allegations that
would not constitute a violation of this chapter, have been made against person
or entities not covered by this chapter, or do not appear to be supported by
the facts. The Ethics Commission may also consolidate complaints where the
allegations are materially related. Amended complaints must be sent to the
complainant and respondent by the Ethics Commission.
   (C)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Ethics
Commission shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations
contained in the complaint. The Commission shall afford a person who is the
subject of the complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the
complaint. The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to
appear and be heard under oath and to offer evidence in response to the
allegations.
   (D)   The person who is the subject of the complaint (respondent) may file
with the Ethics Commission a response to the complaint within 30 days after his
or her receipt of the complaint. The response, if any, must be sent to the
person filing the original complaint (complainant) by the Ethics Commission
within ten days after its filing. Within 15 days after receipt, the complainant
may also file with the Ethics Commission a response to the respondent’s
response, which the Ethics Commission must send to the respondent within five
days after its filing.
   (E)   Extensions of time to any of the time limitations specified in this
section may be granted by the Ethics Commission upon a vote of a majority of
the members. If no meeting can be held before such time limit runs out, the
Chair may extend the limit until the following meeting. The Ethics Commission
must give written notice of any extensions of time to the respondent and the
complainant.
   (F)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Ethics Commission shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Commission, except:
      (1)   The Commission may turn over to the Commonwealth Attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; and
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly discloses the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Commission may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (G)   The Commission shall make a determination based on its preliminary
inquiry whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it
alleges a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If
the Commission concludes that the complaint is outside its jurisdiction,
frivolous or without factual basis, the Commission shall immediately terminate
the inquiry, reduce the conclusion to writing and transmit a copy of its
decision to the complainant and to all officers and employees against whom the
complaint was filed.
   (H)   If the Ethics Commission concludes, based upon its preliminary
inquiry, that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Commission shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the
complaint and may initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a
violation.
   (I)   If a complaint is accepted or prepared pursuant to division (A) above,
the Ethics Commission must conduct an investigation. From this point on, the
complainant may not withdraw his or her complaint, although he or she may
request that the Ethics Commission either make a finding of no probable cause
or no violation.
   (J)   (1)   In conducting an investigation, the Ethics Commission may
administer oaths or affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance
and require the production of any books or records it deems relevant and
material. All city agencies, bodies, officials and employees are required to
respond fully and truthfully to all inquiries and cooperate with all requests
of the Ethics Commission or its agents relating to an investigation. It is a
violation of this chapter for any official or employee to deny access to
information requested by the Ethics Commission in the course of an
investigation or a public hearing, except to the extent that such denial is
required by federal, state or local law.
      (2)   Nothing in this section may be construed to permit the Ethics
Commission to conduct an investigation of itself or of any of its members or
staff. If the Ethics Commission receives a complaint alleging that the
Commission or any of its members or staff has violated any provision of this
code, or any other law, the Commission must promptly transmit to the
legislative body a copy of the complaint.
   (K)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.073 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Ethics Commission determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Commission shall issue an order
setting the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is
issued, unless the alleged violator petitions for, and the Commission consents
to, a later date. The order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy
of any pertinent regulations of the Commission relating to the hearing shall be
sent to the alleged violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a
hearing is issued.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.074 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The state’s Rules of Civil Procedure and the state’s Rules of Evidence
shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Ethics Commission; however, the
hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in accordance
with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Commission so as to
afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the nature
of the proceedings.
   (B)   (1)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the respondent, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Commission in connection with
the matter to be heard.
      (2)   The Commission shall inform the respondent, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   (1)   All testimony in a Commission hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer.
      (2)   All parties shall have the right to call and examine witnesses, to
introduce exhibits, to cross- examine witnesses, to submit evidence and to be
represented by counsel.
      (3)   All witnesses shall have the right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Commission, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Ethics Commission shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   (1)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Ethics Commission
shall, as soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the
purpose of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether
a violation of this chapter has been proven.
      (2)   Within 30 days after completion of the hearing, the Board shall
issue a written report of its findings and conclusions.
   (G)   If the Commission concludes in its report that no violation of this
chapter has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this
determination to the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint
and to the party who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Commission concludes, in its report, that in consideration of
the evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of the chapter, the Commission shall within 15 days:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
of the city or city agency with which the violator serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body that the violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Commission, which
may include a recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from
office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; and/or
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations, of this chapter or state
laws to the County Attorney or Commonwealth Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.075 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Ethics Commission may appeal the finding to the Circuit Court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Ethics
Commission by filing a petition with the court against the Commission.
   (B)   The Commission shall transmit to the Clerk of the Court all evidence
considered by the Commission at the public hearing.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.076 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.077 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A) The Ethics Commission may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   (1)   The Commission may adopt regulations, consistent with the
state’s Open Records Act, being KRS 61.870 et seq., to establish criteria under
which it will issue confidential advisory opinions.
      (2)   All other advisory opinions shall be public documents; except that,
before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so that the
identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Commission, if a person
makes or purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory
opinion requested by or on behalf of the person, the Commission may vote to
make public the advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   (1)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Commission shall be
binding on the Commission in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and
circumstances of the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances
arise which would change the opinion of the Commission if they had existed at
the time the opinion was rendered.
      (2)   However, if any fact determined by the Commission to be material
was omitted or misstated in the request for an advisory opinion, the Commission
shall not be bound by the advisory opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Commission shall be
admissible in the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for
violations of this chapter for actions taken in reliance on the advisory
opinion.
   (G)   Advisory opinions (with unnecessary financial and personal details
redacted) will be indexed and maintained on file by the Ethics Commission.
Officers, employees and businesses should be notified about advisory opinions
that may directly affect their conduct.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.078 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Ethics Commission or any other agency or official of the
city or the commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
state’s Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Ethics Commission to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by
the Ethics Commission not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the
penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Ethics Commission to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Commission to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under
this chapter, a finding by the Ethics Commission that an officer or employee of
the city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion or other disciplinary action
by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other officer
or agency having the power of removal or discipline.
      (2)   Any action to remove or discipline any officer or employee for a
violation of this chapter shall be taken in accordance with all applicable
ordinances and regulations of the city and all applicable laws of the
commonwealth.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-11-2015)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
   
34.01   Abandoned urban property; tax rate
   
34.02   Bank franchise and local deposit tax
   
34.03   Collection of city taxes
   
34.04   Electric utility tax
§ 34.01 ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTY; TAX RATE.
   (A)   Abandoned urban properties classified as real property for tax
purposes. Abandoned urban property is established as a separate classification
of real property for the purpose of ad valorem taxation. As used herein,
ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTY shall mean:
      (1)   Any vacant structure or vacant or unimproved lot or parcel of
ground located within the boundaries of the city which has been vacant or
unimproved for a period of at least one year and which:
         (a)   Because it is dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin infested
or otherwise dangerous to the safety of persons, it is unfit for its intended
use;
         (b)   By reason of neglect or lack of maintenance has become a place
for the accumulation of trash and debris, or has become infested with rodents
or other vermin;
         (c)   Has been tax delinquent for a period of at least three years; or
         (d)   Is located within a development area established under KRS
65.7049, 65.7051 and 65.7053.
      (2)   Any property in the city that has been identified as “blighted” or
“deteriorated” by the Code Enforcement Board. (“Blighted” or “deteriorated”
shall have that definition set forth in KRS 99.705.)
   (B)   Rate of taxation. The rate of ad valorem taxation levied upon
abandoned urban properties is $1 on each $100 of value.
   (C)   Responsibilities delegated to Code Enforcement Officer.
      (1)   As set forth in KRS 92.305, each year the Code Enforcement Officer
shall determine which properties located within the city are abandoned urban
properties and shall prepare and furnish a list thereof to the City Clerk-
Treasurer and the county’s Property Valuation Administrator prior to the date
fixed for the annual assessment of real property within the county.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), a property
classified by the Code Enforcement Officer as abandoned urban property as of
the date fixed for the annual assessment of real property shall be taxed as
abandoned urban property for such tax year, if the owner repairs,
rehabilitates, or otherwise returns the property to productive use, the owner
shall notify the city, by and through its Clerk-Treasurer. If the city finds
the property is no longer abandoned urban property, the city shall notify the
county’s Property Valuation Administrator to strike the property from the list
of abandoned urban properties as of the succeeding date fixed for the annual
assessment of real property within the county.
      (3)   No later than May 1 of each year, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall mail, by regular first-class mail, to the owners of each abandoned urban
property, as those names are listed in the records of the Property Valuation
Administrator, a notice that the property has been classified as abandoned
urban property. The owner of any abandoned urban property who believes that the
property has been incorrectly classified as such may appeal said classification
to the Code Enforcement Board. Such appeal shall be in writing and shall be
made no later than June 1 of that year. The Code Enforcement Board shall afford
the owner the opportunity for a hearing, as set forth in §§
31.15 through
31.29 of this code of ordinances. If the Code Enforcement Board finds that the
property was incorrectly classified as abandoned urban property, it shall cause
the property to be removed from the list of properties so classified, and the
property shall not be taxed as an abandoned urban property for that tax year.
(Ord. 2017-09, passed 10-9-2017)
§ 34.02 BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on all “financial institutions”, as defined in
KRS Ch. 136, located within the corporate limits of the city, for 1996 tax year
and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.024% on all
deposits, as defined in KRS Ch. 136, maintained by such financial institutions.
   (B)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later than
November 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2% discount by
December 31 of each year or without the discount by January 31 of the next
year.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien for taxes on the property assessed for
taxes to the extent allowed under KRS 134.420.
   (D)   All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are not paid
before January 31 for each tax year shall be deemed delinquent and shall be
subject to a penalty of 10% and shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per
annum.
   (E)   All moneys collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid into the
General Fund of the city to be used for payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 2015-08, passed 6-11-2015)
§ 34.03 COLLECTION OF CITY TAXES.
   (A)   January 1 of each year is hereby set as the assessment date for all
real property subject to city taxation within the boundaries of the city.
   (B)   The county assessment of property situated within the city is hereby
adopted as the city assessment for the city ad valorem taxation for each fiscal
year.
   (C)   The tax bills shall be based on the assessment of property within the
corporate limits of the city by the County Property Valuation Administrator.
Said bills shall be prepared and mailed by the City Clerk-Treasurer. Each tax
bill shall include the lot and block number, assessment of real property, the
name of the supposed owner, the ad valorem tax rate, and the amount due.
   (D)   Said tax bills shall be due and payable as follows:
      (1)   If paid by November 30 of each year, pay face amount less 2%
discount;
      (2)   If paid December 1 through December 31 of each year, pay face
amount;
      (3)   If paid January 1 through January 31 of each year, pay face amount
plus 6% penalty;
      (4)   If paid February 1 of each year, pay face amount plus 21% penalty;
or
      (5)   If paid after April 1 of each year, pay face amount plus 21%
penalty plus any cost and expenses incidental to collecting said tax bill.
   (E)   Collection of all delinquent taxes shall be made in the manner
prescribed by law.
   (F)   Shall any portion of this section be ruled void or unenforceable by
any court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder thereof is intended to be
enacted and shall be in full force and effect notwithstanding.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 34.04 ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed. There is imposed on any electric utility company
providing electric service within the city not under franchise, a special tax
as prescribed by the Constitution of the commonwealth, § 181, the purpose of
which tax shall not be for control or regulation of said utility.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.010)
   (B)   Rate. The rate of the tax provided by division (A) above is fixed at
an amount equal to 3% of the gross revenue received by said electric utility
from its ratepayers of all classifications within the city limits on and after
1-1-1962, payable quarterly not more than 30 days following the end of each
calendar quarter.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.020)
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose for which this tax is levied is to provide
revenue for the General Fund of the city and the revenue therefrom shall be
expended only for purposes covered by the proper use of said General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.030)
(Ord. passed 12-29-1961)
CHAPTER 35: ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
Registration of Vacant Residential Properties
   
35.01   Purpose
   
35.02   Definitions
   
35.03   Registration
   
35.04   Maintenance
   
35.05   Enforcement
 
   
35.99   Penalty
REGISTRATION OF VACANT RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES
§ 35.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to establish a vacant
residential property registration and maintenance program as a mechanism to
protect neighborhoods and minimize hazards to persons and property as a result
of the vacancy.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 35.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CREDITOR. A federal or state chartered bank, savings bank, savings and loan
association, or credit union, and any entity acting on behalf of the creditor
named in the debt obligation including, but not limited to, servicers.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Real property with one to four dwelling units.
   VACANT. A residential property with no legal resident or tenant. Evidence of
VACANCY includes any condition that on its own, or combined with other
conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property
is vacant. Such conditions include, but are not limited to, overgrown or dead
vegetation, accumulation of flyers, mail or trash, disconnected utilities, the
absence of window coverings or furniture and statements by neighbors, delivery
persons or government employees.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 35.03 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to filing a complaint of foreclosure or executing a deed
in lieu of foreclosure on a residential property located in the city, a
creditor shall inspect the property to determine whether the property is
vacant.
      (2)   If the property is vacant, the creditor shall, on the same day the
complaint of foreclosure is filed or the deed in lieu of foreclosure is
executed, register the property as a vacant property with the City Clerk-
Treasurer for the purpose of minimizing hazards to persons and property as a
result of the vacancy.
   (B)   If a residential property becomes vacant at any time after a creditor
files a complaint of foreclosure or executes a deed in lieu of foreclosure, but
prior to vesting of title in the creditor or third party, the creditor shall,
within ten business days after obtaining knowledge of the vacancy, register the
property as vacant property with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 35.04 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Registration of a residential property as vacant property shall
include the address of the property and the name and contact information of a
person located within the commonwealth who is authorized to accept service on
behalf of the creditor.
   (B)   (1)   If a residential property becomes or remains vacant as provided
in §
35.03 of this chapter, but prior to vesting of title in the creditor or any
third party, and the city determines the property is in violation of any
ordinance regulating a nuisance, the city or a Code Enforcement Officer may
issue to the creditor, via the person identified in division (A) above, a
notice of violation as set forth in §§
31.15 through
31.29 of this code of ordinances or as it may be amended.
      (2)   The city may require the creditor to correct the violation to the
extent consistent with the terms of the mortgage.
   (C)   A notice of violation issued to a creditor shall comply with the
provisions of §§
31.15 through
31.29 of this code of ordinances or as it may be amended.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 35.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   If the creditor fails to remedy the violation as set forth in the notice of
violation, the Code Enforcement Officer may continue with enforcement
proceedings as set forth in §§
31.15 through
31.29 of this code of ordinances or as it may be amended.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any creditor that fails to register vacant residential property within
the city, per §§
35.01 through
35.05 of this chapter, shall be subject to a civil fine of $100 payable to the
city for each day of delinquency.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 11-13-2017)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapte
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
Solid Waste Disposal
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   System established
   
50.03   Contracting with private firms
   
50.04   Rates and charges
   
50.05   Containers; placement
   
50.06   Burning prohibited
   
50.07   Enforcement
Dumpsters
   
50.20   Definition
   
50.21   Requirements
   
50.22   Permits required
   
50.23   Temporary purpose
   
50.24   Enforcement
   
50.99   Penalty
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Includes all wastes, refuse and other matters considered to be
garbage in the Kentucky Revised Statutes and the decisions of the state’s Court
of Appeals.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse and other discarded solid materials, including
solid waste materials resulting from industrial, commercial and agricultural
operations and from community activities, but does not include solids or
dissolved pollutants in water resources, such as silt, dissolved or suspended
solids in industrial waste water effluents, dissolved materials in irrigation
return flows or other common water pollutants.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL. The collection, storage/treatment, utilization and
processing of final disposal of solid waste.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.010) (Ord. passed 12-29-1966)
§ 50.02 SYSTEM ESTABLISHED.
   The City Council is empowered to establish a solid waste disposal system in
order to dispose of all the solid waste within the city limits and may use city
vehicles for the removing and disposal of said garbage or may hire, rent or
contract trucks from private sources for the purpose of transporting or
disposing of the same.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.020) (Ord. passed 12-29-1966)
§ 50.03 CONTRACTING WITH PRIVATE FIRMS.
   The City Council is empowered to enter into a contract and to negotiate the
terms of the same with any private trucker or carrier for the transporting and
removal of said solid waste from the city and disposing of the same.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.030) (Ord. passed 12-29-1966)
§ 50.04 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   In order to pay the expenses of the solid waste disposal system
provided for herein, there is levied the following rates and charges:
      (1)   Single-family residence per month: $2; and
      (2)   Each family unit of a multiple residence: $1.50.
   (B)   The charges as set forth in this section shall be added to the regular
water bill of the user of the services and shall be due and payable therewith.
Any resident not using city water shall be billed direct each month and payment
due at the same time as water users.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.040) (Ord. passed 12-29-1966)
§ 50.05 CONTAINERS; PLACEMENT.
   As provided in §
50.04 of this chapter, each individual entity is required to place all garbage
in a metal or plastic container or garbage can not less than 20 gallons or more
than 32 gallons. Said container or garbage can shall be placed near a public
road, street alley or at a place convenient to be picked up for disposal
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.050) (Ord. passed 12-29-1966) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   The burning of solid waste within the city limits is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.060) (Ord. passed 12-29-1966) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Council is further empowered to enforce this subchapter in law or
in equity when the provisions hereof are not promptly complied with by any
individual, residence owner, business establishment or other persons specified
herein or by any individual entity provided for in this subchapter within the
city limits in accordance with the terms of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.070) (Ord. passed 12-29-1966)
DUMPSTERS
§ 50.20 DEFINITION.
   A DUMPSTER is any trash or refuse container greater than 96 gallons in size
that requires a specially designed truck with lifting forks or a winch to empty
or move.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 50.21 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person, business, school, church, charitable or non-profit
organization, club or civic organization, or commercial or industrial location
that maintains a dumpster on its property to dispose of garbage or refuse of
any kind must meet the following requirements.
      (1)   A dumpster must be of a size appropriate to its location and for
the amount of garbage or refuse regularly placed into the dumpster before it is
emptied.
      (2)   A dumpster shall be located, within reason, to minimize conflicts
with nearby buildings.
      (3)   No dumpster will be approved for use at any residential property
containing four or fewer residences.
      (4)   No dumpster shall be located within ten feet of the right-of-way of
any street, road or highway.
      (5)   No dumpster shall obstruct safe sight distances for traffic and
pedestrians.
      (6)   No dumpster shall obstruct views of traffic signs or street signs.
      (7)   No dumpster shall be located on a sidewalk or any public way.
      (8)   No dumpster shall be located within 15 feet of a window or door of
a building on an adjacent lot.
      (9)   The area surrounding a dumpster shall be maintained free of litter,
the lids shall be kept closed when not in use and dumpsters shall not be
overflowing with debris.
      (10)   Any dumpster located within 15 feet of an adjacent residentially
zoned property (as seen from any point on the property line at a height of six
feet), must be screened on any side facing such lot. Dumpsters may be screened
with a weather-resistant solid wood fence, decorative masonry wall, evergreen
plants or a structure designed to be architecturally compatible with the
principal building on the lot where the dumpster is located. The screening
shall not interfere with the collection of garbage or refuse from the dumpster.
   (B)   Any dumpster currently located in the city that meets the requirements
of divisions (A)(1) through (A)(9) above may remain at its current location and
is exempt from the screening requirements in division (A)(10) above unless the
dumpster is voluntarily moved, removed or replaced with a larger dumpster, or
if the property changes ownership.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 6-11-2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A permit must be obtained from the city before any dumpster regulated by
this subchapter is brought into the city. No fee shall be charged for a
dumpster permit. The plans for dumpster locations must be submitted to the City
Clerk-Treasurer for review by the Code Enforcement Officer for compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter. A permit, once issued, is valid
indefinitely, unless the dumpster is moved or replaced with a larger dumpster
at which time a new permit must be obtained.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 6-11-2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 TEMPORARY PURPOSE.
   A dumpster may be brought into the city for a TEMPORARY PURPOSE, defined
herein as a period of time lasting six months or less. A permit must be
obtained for a dumpster brought into the city for a temporary purpose in the
same manner as a permit issued under §
50.21 of this chapter. However, a dumpster brought into the city for a
temporary purpose is subject only to the requirements set forth in §
50.21(A)(1) through (A)(9) of this chapter. A temporary permit shall last for a
period of six months and, if the dumpster remains on the property for a period
longer than six months, a permit issued under §
50.22 of this chapter will be required.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 50.24 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person or entity that violates the provisions of this subchapter shall
be subject to citation issued by any law enforcement officer and/or Code
Enforcement Officer. Citations shall be enforced through the Code Enforcement
Board, as provided in §
31.26 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or persons who fail to comply with any of the terms of §§
50.01 through
50.07 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined not
less than $5, and not more than $15, for each offense. Each day of violation
constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.080)
   (C)   The failure to obtain a permit for a dumpster regulated by §§
50.20 through
50.24 of this chapter or to adhere to the requirements of §§
50.20 through
50.24 of this chapter shall be classified as a civil offense with a penalty of
up to $100 per day that the dumpster fails to meet the requirements of §§
50.20 through
50.24 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-29-1966; Ord. 2018-05, passed 6-11-2018)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM
Section
Generally
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Applications for water and/or sewer service
   
51.03   Water taps and connections
   
51.04   Purchase and use of water
   
51.05   Abutting owners must connect to sewer lines
   
51.06   Sewer connections required for new buildings
   
51.07   Non-sewer facilities prohibited
   
51.08   Sewer connections; regulations
   
51.09   Storm and water drain connections prohibited
   
51.10   Sewer taps to be only by city
   
51.11   Property owners required to install toilets
   
51.12   Sewer installation costs to be borne by property owners
   
51.13   All septic facilities not connected to sewers prohibited
   
51.14   Unsanitary deposit of garbage and discharge of sewage or other wastes
to non-sewer facilities prohibited
   
51.15   Inflammable and other improper substances prohibited from being
deposited in sewer system
   
51.16   Special usages of sewer system
   
51.17   Unusual sewage discharge
   
51.18   Other special classifications
   
51.19   Ownership of lines and meters
   
51.20   Regulations, prohibitions and conditions
   
51.21   State laws incorporated by reference
   
51.22   Restrictions on amendments to this chapter
Rates, Fees and Charges
   
51.35   Deposits
   
51.36   Payment
   
51.37   Reconnections
   
51.38   Connections
   
51.39   Waste water cleanout
   
51.40   Bulk water sales
   
51.41   Customer copies
   
51.42   Waste water rates
   
51.43   Water rates
   
51.44   Monthly user fee
GENERALLY
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Hodgenville, Kentucky, acting by and through its City
Council or by and through such other body as shall be the governing body of
said city under the laws of the state at any given time.
   CUSTOMER. The fee simple property owner, or his or her legally authorized
agent, and/or his or her tenant who has agreed to purchase water and/or sewer
service from the city.
   MANAGER. The manager, superintendent, or other person duly employed and
authorized by the city to supervise the operation of the system.
   SYSTEM. The combined and consolidated water and sewer system of the city, as
now or hereafter constituted.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.02 APPLICATIONS FOR WATER AND/OR SEWER SERVICE.
   Each customer must complete a written application for water and/or sewer
service at city hall. Each customer will be required to bring proper
identification and identify a valid physical address. Applicants for service
must be at least 18 years of age. All rental property must have both the
landlord and the tenant’s name on the rental agreement, and the tenant applying
for water/sewer service must be named on the rental agreement. Tenants will be
required to pay a deposit. Deposits are refundable to a tenant upon termination
of services. Before deposits are refunded, deposit amounts will be applied
against any unpaid bills of the tenant, and if any balance remains, the amount
will be refunded to the tenant.
   (A)   Customers desiring service at locations where water and/or sewer
service is available, and an existing point of delivery (such as, meter, sewer
tap) is established, shall complete an application as outlined above, and pay
deposit(s).
   (B)   Customers desiring service at locations where water/sewer service is
available, and no point of delivery (such as, meter, sewer tap) is established,
shall complete an application as outlined above and pay all tap fees.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.03 WATER TAPS AND CONNECTIONS.
   Whenever the city shall determine that it is feasible to provide water
service to a customer, the city shall install, maintain, and operate a main
distribution pipeline, or lines from the system source of water supply to the
customer’s lot or easement at a cost to the city. However, if the necessary
water line from the city’s water main to the customer’s water meter is
unusually long, or if the installation requires boring under or disruption of
any existing improvements as determined by the manager, the customer may be
required to pay all or portion of the cost. The expense borne by the city shall
include necessary tap, fittings, and shut-off valve, which items belong to the
city. The water line, and valves from the customer’s lot or easement to the
premises are the customer’s responsibility and expense. The minimum earth cover
of the customer’s service shall be 30 inches. The manager shall determine the
size, type and number of meters to be installed. The city shall have access to
the meter for the purpose of installation, meter reading, inspection,
maintenance, operation, replacement or removal. A 5/8" x 3/4" water meter shall
be the standard customer service meter unless the customer requests a larger
meter. If a request for a larger meter is made, the city will evaluate the
installation and decide whether or not to approve the request.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.04 PURCHASE AND USE OF WATER.
   (A)   Each customer shall be entitled to purchase as much water as desired
from the city, pursuant to such agreements as may be provided and required by
the city. However, should a customer sell or dispose of a portion of his or her
property or subdivide the same, he or she, or the new owner of any new tract,
may not demand water and taps without paying connections fees for each such
tract to be served.
   (B)   In the event that the total water supply shall be insufficient to meet
all of the needs of the customers, or in the event that there is a shortage of
water, the city or its manager may prorate the water available among the
various customers, on such basis as is deemed equitable by the city or the
manager, and may also prescribe a schedule of hours covering the use of water
for specified purposes and for such appropriate period of time as may be
necessary under the circumstances.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.05 ABUTTING OWNERS MUST CONNECT TO SEWER LINES.
   (A)   All owners, tenants, and occupants of dwellings, houses, apartments,
hotels, motels, mobile homes, house trailers, mobile home parks, trailer camps,
manufacturing or commercial establishments, or any other building of any kind
or nature situated on a lot or lots, within city limits, through which any
sewage collection line has been or is hereafter installed, or which abuts upon
any street, alley or easement within city limits in which there is or hereafter
installed a sewage collection line, or to which property a sewage collection
line is extended, shall within 90 days following the date on which such sewage
collection line is placed in operation, connect therewith all sanitary sewage
drain pipes of such dwellings, houses, apartment, hotels, motels, mobile homes,
house trailers, mobile home parks, trailer camps, manufacturing or commercial
establishments or other buildings with said sanitary sewage collection line,
conveying thereby all of the sewage there from into said sewer system. Such
connections to be made in accordance with such rules and regulations as the
city may from time to time duly establish; and the failure to make such
connections is hereby declared unlawful and to constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   Each owner, tenant, and occupant of similar property outside the city
limits, who is connected to the city water system and receives water service
from the city, shall, within 90 days following the date on which the city sends
written notice to such party that a city sewage collection line is available to
such property, connect such property to such sewage collection line, in
accordance with such rules and regulations; and the city shall cut off the
water supply to any such owner, tenant, and/or occupant failing to make such
connections.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 SEWER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED FOR NEW BUILDINGS.
   All architects, contractors, builders, or other persons, before commencing
the erection of any buildings or other improvement capable of emitting liquid
wastes or sewage on any lot parcel of land abutting on a street, alley or
easement in which there may hereafter installed a sewage collection line, or to
which a sewage collection line is made available, shall before erecting or
installing such building or improvement, exhibit to the City Council, or such
official as the City Council may designate, satisfactory evidence that a means
has been provided or will be provided for connecting the sanitary sewage drain
pipes from such buildings or other improvement with such sewer collection line.
No storm water or other surface or sub-surface water drain shall be connected
with any sanitary sewer line currently existing or hereafter constructed, nor
shall any storm water, surface, or sub-surface water be otherwise introduced
into any such sanitary sewage collection line.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.07 NON-SEWER FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain or permit
to be constructed or maintained any outdoor toilet, privy, vault, cesspool,
septic tank, or other similar contrivance for the reception of sewage on any
lands owned by such person, or under his or her control, which abut upon a
sewage collection line in any public street, alley, or other easement or
through which a sewage collection line passes or to which a sewage collection
line either currently exists or shall be hereafter available; all such outdoor
toilets or privies shall be removed; and all such vaults, cesspools, septic
tanks, or other similar contrivances for the reception of sewage shall be
closed or filled or otherwise removed from the properties described above
within 90 days after such sewage collection service becomes available.
   (B)   All such privies, surface toilets, or other means of casting or
depositing sewage into a container above or below the surface of the ground or
upon or into the soil or into any running or percolating stream of water or
into any cistern or well whereby the soil or any surface or subsurface waters
is contaminated with such sewage are hereby declared to constitute a public
nuisance and their use or maintenance for a period of more than 90 days
following the availability of a sewage collection line to the property is
hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 SEWER CONNECTIONS; REGULATIONS.
   All sewer connections shall be made under such regulations as the city may
establish. Failure to effect such connection is hereby declared to be unlawful
and shall constitute a nuisance. The provisions contained in Chapter 52 of this
title, or successor ordinances, shall apply.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.09 STORM AND WATER DRAIN CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No storm water drain shall be or remain connected or be connected with any
separate sanitary sewer heretofore or hereafter constructed as, or made a part
of, the sewer system of the city; nor shall any storm water be otherwise
introduced into any such separate sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.10 SEWER TAPS TO BE ONLY BY CITY.
   No person, firm, or corporation except the city shall make any sewer taps,
which is the breaking or entering into sewer lines of the city. The city will,
upon application to the city and payment of any tapping or connection fee, as
may be prescribed by the city, tap the city sewer and run a lateral line to the
property line of any applicant where sewers are available, and any and all
installations or attachments thereto shall be made by the applicant under the
direction and supervision of the city, provided that nothing herein shall be
construed as requiring the city to furnish a sewer connection or sewer services
to any premises where a city sewer is not available at the time that the
application is made.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.11 PROPERTY OWNERS REQUIRED TO INSTALL TOILETS.
   Each owner of a house, building, or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within city and to which
sewer service is made available by the city, is hereby required, at the owners’
expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect such
facilities directly with such available public sewer in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.12 SEWER INSTALLATION COSTS TO BE BORNE BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of a
building sewer shall be borne by the property owner, who shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer. All connections shall be made under the
supervision of the manager of the sewer system or other duly authorized
official of the city.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.13 ALL SEPTIC FACILITIES NOT CONNECTED TO SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain a privy, well,
vault cesspool, cistern, septic tank or similar contrivance for the reception
of flowable sewage where sewers are available, and all such privies, wells,
vaults, cesspools, cisterns, septic tanks, facilities, and similar contrivances
shall be removed or disconnected by the owners and the occupants of premises to
which sewers are made available in the city as soon as the same are made
available to such premises. All such privies, facilities, and other means of
casting or depositing sewage into a container above or below the surface of the
ground, or upon or into the soil or into any running or percolating stream of
water or into any cistern or well, whereby the soil is contaminated with such
sewage, are hereby declared to be unlawful and to constitute a nuisance.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.14 UNSANITARY DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE AND DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE OR OTHER WASTES
TO NON-SEWER FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city, any garbage or other objectionable waste, or to discharge to any natural
outlet within the city, any sewage industrial wastes, or other polluted waters,
except where suitable treatment has been provided under the supervision of the
manager or other duly authorized city official.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.15 INFLAMMABLE AND OTHER IMPROPER SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED FROM BEING
DEPOSITED IN SEWER SYSTEM.
   No substances shall be placed or discharged into the municipal sewer system
that may create a combustible, gaseous, explosive, or inflammable condition in
said system, nor shall any substances or objects be placed or discharged into
the municipal sewer system which will not dissolve and which will thus cause an
obstruction and clogging within said system. No petroleum products shall be
placed or discharged into the municipal sewer system.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.16 SPECIAL USAGES OF SEWER SYSTEM.
   In the event that a building or premises uses water in excess of 10,000
gallons per month as shown by the water meter readings for two consecutive
months, and it can be shown that a substantial portion of the water as so
measured does not and cannot enter the municipal sewer facilities, then the
manager may determine, in such manner as may be found practicable, the amount
of water entering the sewers. In that event the sewer rate or charge shall be
based on the amount of water entering the sewers, or the manager may require or
permit the installation of additional meters or measuring devices in such
manner as to be determined the quantity of water or sewage actually entering
the municipal sewer facilities, in which case the sewer rate or charge shall be
based thereon.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.17 UNUSUAL SEWAGE DISCHARGE.
   In the event the sewage, water, or other liquid wastes being discharged into
the municipal sewer facilities from any building or premises contains unduly
high concentrates of any substances which add to the operating costs of the
municipal sewer facilities, then special rates, rentals, or charges may be
established, charged, and collected as to such building or premises, or the
owner or other interested party may be required to specially treat such sewage,
water, or other liquid wastes before it is discharged into the municipal sewer
facilities.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.18 OTHER SPECIAL CLASSIFICATIONS.
   Whenever the manager determines it is necessary to classify any commercial
institutions or industries by reason of the unusual purpose for which water is
used, or by reason of the character of the sewage, water, or other liquid
wastes discharged therefrom, or whenever the established schedules of rates and
charges for any reason are not applicable, then special rates or other charges
may be established by the governing body of the city. Any person, firm, or
corporation dissatisfied with the established scheduled or rates and charges by
reason of peculiar or unusual use of occupancy of any premises, and
consequently alleging peculiar or unusual uses of water, may file an
application with the governing body of the city or with another board or body
of the city which may be in charge and control of the municipal waterworks and
sewer system, for special classification rates and charges.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.19 OWNERSHIP OF LINES AND METERS.
   The city shall own all lines, meters, cut-off valves, and other water and
sewer equipment as shall be paid for by the city.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.20 REGULATIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND CONDITIONS.
   The following regulations, prohibitions, and conditions shall be deemed to
supplement the bond ordinance and the water and sewer rate ordinance adopted by
the city in connection with the financing:
   (A)   All taps and connections to the water and sewer of the city shall be
made by and under the direction and supervision of the manager.
   (B)   Water service may be discontinued by the manager for any violation of
any rule, regulation, or condition of service, and especially for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   Misrepresentation in the application or contract as to the property
or fixtures to be supplied, or as to additional use of water and/or supplied,
or as to additional use of water and/or sewer service, or as to unusual or
extraordinary use of sewer facilities;
      (2)   Failure to report to the city additions to the property or fixtures
to be supplied, or of additional use of water and/or sewer service;
      (3)   Resale or giving away bulk water;
      (4)   Waste or misuse of water due to improper or imperfect service pipes
and/or failure to keep same in suitable state of repair;
      (5)   Tampering with meter, meter seal, service, or valves, permitting
such tampering by others;
      (6)   Connection, cross-connection, or permitting the same, of any
separate water supply to premises which receive water from the city; or
      (7)   Nonpayment of bills.
   (C)   Any customer desiring to discontinue the water and/or sewer service to
his or her premises for any reason must give notice of discontinuance in
writing at the city hall; otherwise, a customer shall remain liable for all
water used and water and/or sewer services rendered to such premises by the
city unless said notice is received by the city.
   (D)   (1)   For owner-occupied properties, bills and notices relating to the
conduct of the business of the city will be mailed to the owner at the address
listed on the application unless a change of address has been filed in writing
with the city. For tenant-occupied properties, bills and notices relating to
the conduct of the business of the city will be mailed to the address listed on
the tenant’s application, addressed first to the real property owner and in
care of the tenant. The city shall not otherwise be responsible for delivery of
any bill or notice, nor will the customer be excused from payment of any bill
or any performance required in said notice.
      (2)   If the occupant of any premises is not also the owner, both the
property owner and the occupant shall be responsible for the payment of the
water and sewer bill, including any penalties and late fees. If said bill
becomes delinquent, as set forth below, water service to the property shall be
discontinued and will not be reconnected until either the property owner or the
occupant pays the delinquent bill(s). In certain special circumstances, such as
a mobile home when the real property owner of the mobile home lot is not also
the owner of the mobile home situated on lot and/or the mobile home is occupied
by a tenant, all parties associated shall be jointly liable for payment of the
water and sewer bill, including any penalties and late fees.
         (a)   Meters shall be read monthly between 15th and 20th of each
month. Bills for water and sewer service will be prepared and mailed on or
before the first day of each month. Bills shall be due and payable at city hall
or to any designated agent by the 10th day of the month.
         (b)   All bills not paid by on or before on or before 4:30 p.m. on the
past due date, the 10th day of each month, shall be deemed delinquent, and the
city shall assess a late fee. Any bill remaining unpaid by 9:00 a.m. on the
20th day of the month shall result in disconnection of service and shall be
assessed a reconnect fee. If the customer should pay the delinquent bill in
full after 9:00 a.m. on the day of disconnection, but prior to the city
actually disconnecting the customer’s water supply, the reconnection fee shall
still apply. The city may, but is not required to, serve a customer a written
final notice of said delinquency. Any customer is entitled, upon written
request, to a hearing before the City Council on the question of termination of
service. If a delinquent bill is not paid within ten days after the date of
delinquency, and if no hearing is requested, or if a hearing is requested and
timely held, and such customer’s delinquency is hereby established, the water
supply to the customer may be discontinued without further notice. If, however,
prior to discontinuance of service, there is delivered to the city, or to its
employee empowered to discontinue service, a written certificate signed by a
physician, a registered nurse, or a public health officer that, in the opinion
of the certifier, discontinuance of service will aggravate an existing illness
or infirmity on the affected premises, service shall not be discontinued until
the affected resident can make other living arrangements or until ten days
after the time of the city’s receipt of said certification, whichever occurs
first.
         (c)   If a deadline date falls on a Saturday, Sunday or city holiday,
such deadline shall not expire until the times specified above on the next
succeeding regular city work day.
   (E)   Where the water supply to the customer has been discontinued for non-
payment of delinquent bills, a reconnection fee or charge, as may be specified
or revised from time to time in any applicable ordinance, shall be made for
reconnection of water service. The reconnection will not be made to either the
customer, or a member of the customer’s immediate family, until after all
delinquent bills and other charges, if any, owed by the customer to the city
have been paid.
   (F)   The manager shall have the right to require that a reasonable sum, or
such other meter deposit as may be specified or revised from time to time in
any applicable ordinance, shall be placed on deposit with the city by a
customer for the purpose of establishing or maintaining such customer’s credit
and/or as assurance for the payment of water or sewer bills by such customer.
Deposits shall be placed in an account separate from any other city account and
any interest earned shall be retained by the city as a fee for maintaining such
account.
   (G)   All meters shall be installed, renewed, and maintained at the expense
of the city, and the city reserves the right to determine the size and type of
meter used.
   (H)   Upon written request of any customer, the city shall test the meter
serving said customer. The test will be made without charge to the customer if
the meter has not had a prior test. If the test indicates meter accuracy within
the limits of 2%, the customer shall be charged the actual costs associated
with testing, which may vary from time to time. If a meter is inaccurate in
excess of 2%, adjustments shall be made for the two preceding months prior to
the test according to the inaccuracy in excess of 2%.
   (I)   Where a meter has ceased to register, or a meter reading cannot be
obtained, the quantity of water consumed will be based upon an average of the
prior six months’ consumption, considering the conditions of water service
prevailing during the period in which the meter fails to register.
   (J)   The city shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate interruption
of service, and, when such interruption occur, will endeavor to reestablish
service with the shortest possible delay. When the service is interrupted, all
consumers affected by such interruption will be notified in advance whenever
possible.
   (K)   The city shall in no event be held responsible for any claim made
against it by reason of the breaking of any mains or service pipes, or by
reason of any other interruption of the supply of water caused by the failure
or breakage of machinery or stoppage for necessary repairs. No person shall be
entitled to either damages or a payment refund for any interruption of service
that the city deems necessary.
   (L)   Customers having boilers and/or pressure vessels receiving a supply of
water from the city must have a code compliant reduced pressure zone device
double check valve on the water supply line and a vacuum valve on the steam
line to prevent collapse in case the water supply from the city is discontinued
or interrupted for any reason, with or without notice. Customers using a city
supply of water to fill portable or mobile tanks must have a code compliant
reduced pressure zone double check valve and air break on the water fill supply
line to prevent backflow contamination of the city water supply. Reduced
pressure zone devices shall be tested annually at the customer’s expense and
the results shall be provided to the city.
    (M)   The premises receiving a supply of water and all service lines,
meters, and fixtures, including any fixtures within said premises, shall be
subject to inspection by the duly authorized employees of the city during all
reasonable hours.
   (N)   Piping on the premises of a customer must be so installed that
connections are conveniently located with respect to the city lines and mains.
The customer shall provide a place for meeting that is unobstructed and
accessible at all times. The customer shall furnish and maintain a cutoff valve
on his side of the meter, and the city will furnish a like valve on its side of
the meter.
   (O)   The customer’s service lines shall be installed and maintained by the
customer at his own expense in a safe and efficient manner and in accordance
with the city’s rules and regulations and with the regulations of the
Department of Health and State Plumbing Code.
   (P)   If any loss or damage to city’s property or any accident or other
injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the negligence or
wrongful action of the customer, a member of his or her household, his or her
agent, employee or tenant, the cost of the necessary repairs or replacements
shall be paid by the customer to the city, and any liability otherwise
resulting shall be that of the customer.
   (Q)   Water furnished by the city may only be used for domestic consumption
by the customer, members of the customer’s household, and the customer’s
employees. The customer shall not sell or give bulk water to any other person.
   (R)   Each customer shall grant or convey, or shall cause to be granted or
conveyed, to the city, a perpetual easement and rights-of-way across any
property owned or controlled by the customer for water and/or sewer lines, and
any associated construction or maintenance work, whenever said easement or
rights-of-way is necessary to enable the city to furnish service to the
customer.
   (S)   (1)   Water for building or construction purposes will be furnished by
meter measurement, only after suitable deposit has been made. The manager shall
determine the amount based upon the size and type of the construction work
contemplated. All water for building or construction purposes, as set forth in
the permit must pass through one and the same meter.
      (2)   Water so supplied shall be discharged through a hose or pipe
directly upon the material to be made wet, or into a barrel or other container,
and in no case upon the ground or into or through a ditch or trench. The
discharge hose or pipe shall not be permitted to remain in the receiving
materials or container when not actually discharging water. The applicant shall
prevent both the use of water by any party other than the applicant and the use
of water for any purpose or upon any premises not so stated or described in the
application. If the applicant fails to prevent such use, water service may be
discontinued to the application without notice.
   (T)   Special terms and conditions may apply when the city or the community
uses water for public purposes such as fire extinguishment, public parks and
the like.
   (U)   (1)   The city may construct extensions to its water and sewer lines
to points within its service area, but the city is not required to make any
such installation unless the customer pays to the city the entire cost of the
installation. All line extensions shall be evidenced by a contract signed by
the city and the person advancing funds for said extensions.
      (2)   All decisions in connection with the manner of installation of any
extension and maintenance thereof shall remain in the exclusive control of the
city; such extension shall be the property of the city; and no other person
shall have any right, title, or interest therein.
   (V)   The city may refuse service to any person, not presently a customer,
when in the opinion of the city, the capacity of the facilities will not permit
such service.
   (W)   These rules may be changed, amended or supplemented.
   (X)   Complaints may be made to the manager of the system, whose decision
may be appealed to the governing body of the city within ten days; otherwise,
the manager’s decision will be final.
   (Y)   The city may allow one payment extension every 12 months as long as
the customer comes into city hall prior to the disconnect date and completes
the extension form. If the customer is a renter of the property to which the
extension is being requested, the landlord of said property must also give
written permission for payment extension. When the city approves payment
extension, the payment must be paid in the same month as the payment due date
and cannot go into any other month.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.21 STATE LAWS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   All applicable state statues which now or may hereafter exist are
incorporated herein and made a part of this chapter, and the city may use any
powers therein contained, in addition to those in this chapter set out.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.22 RESTRICTIONS ON AMENDMENTS TO THIS CHAPTER.
   This chapter may be amended, provided such amendment does not conflict with
any previous financial obligations required by any water and sewer bond
agreement with the Farmers Home Administration, United States Department of
Agriculture or any other federal, state or private water and sewer financing
agency.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-9-2019)
RATES, FEES AND CHARGES
§ 51.35 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   No deposit shall be required for owner-occupied real property where
the bills shall be issued in the owner’s name.
   (B)   An advanced deposit in the amount of $100 for water service and in the
amount of $100 for waste water service shall be required for all tenant-
occupied residential real property before water and/or wastewater services will
be provided.
   (C)   No deposit shall be required for commercial, business or industrial
real property where the bills shall be issued in the owner’s name.
   (D)   An advanced deposit in the amount of $100 per each water and or waste
water service or one-month estimated bill as estimated by the city, whichever
is greater, shall be required for all tenant-occupied commercial, business, or
industrial real property before water and/or waste water services will be
provided.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.36 PAYMENT.
   (A)   Late payments. All bills not paid on or before 4:30 p.m. on the 10th
day of each month shall be deemed delinquent and shall be assessed a late fee
of $10.
   (B)   Credit cards. All bills paid by credit card shall be assessed an
additional fee of 2.75% of the total bill.
   (C)   ACH banking. All customers paying bills by ACH shall be assessed a fee
of $1 per month. If ACH is denied, the customer shall be assessed a fee of $30.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.37 RECONNECTIONS.
   (A)   When water service to a property has been disconnected for nonpayment
of a delinquent bill, reconnection will not be made until the customer pays in
full all past due amounts and applicable fees by cash, money order, cashier’s
check, or credit card. Personal checks will not be accepted.
   (B)   A reconnection fee of $50 shall be assessed for reconnections made
between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on a regular city work day, and a reconnection
fee of $100 shall be assessed for reconnections made after 4:00 p.m. on a
regular city work day or on a nonscheduled city work day.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.38 CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   A fee of $1,200 shall be assessed for all new 5/8" x 3/4" basic water
service connections inside city limits provided a water main is accessible from
the customer’s property. Service will be provided to the customer’s property
line. Water service lines larger than 3/4" shall be charged for the actual cost
difference above the basic service connection.
   (B)   A fee of $1,000 shall be assessed for all new 4" waste water
connections inside city limits provided a waste water main is accessible from
the customer’s property line. Waste water service lines larger than 4" shall be
charged for the actual difference above a basic service connection.
   (C)   A fee of $1,500 shall be assessed for all new 5/8" x 3/4" basic water
service connections outside city limits provided a water main is accessible
from the customer’s property. Service will be provided to the customer’s
property line. Water service lines larger than 3/4" shall be charged for the
actual cost difference above the basic service connections.
   (D)   A fee of $1,300 shall be assessed for all new 4" waste water
connections outside city limits provided a waste water main is accessible from
the customer’s property line. Waste water service lines larger than 4" shall be
charged for the actual difference above a basic service connection.
   (E)   Any previously served property that has been vacant or has had water
and/or waste water service disconnected for one year or more but desires
reconnection must first be evaluated by the water and/or waste water manager to
determine suitability for renewed service. If the water and/or waste water
manager, in his or her sole discretion, determines that any connection or
service line is unfit for renewed service, the customer shall be required to
replace the connection or service line with a new connection or line at the
customer’s expense. The fees for new 5/8" x 3/4" basic water service
connections and new 4" waste water connections shall apply.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.39 WASTE WATER CLEANOUT.
   (A)   No fee shall be assessed for one cleanout for a customer desiring a
waste water service line cleanout each rolling 12-month period. The service
must occur between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on a regular city work day. Customer
must have at least one outside cleanout tap located no more than 75 feet from a
sewer main. Any additional cleanout per rolling 12-month period shall incur a
fee of $75. The customer or customer’s representative must be present at the
property during any cleanout service.
   (B)   A minimum fee of $150, with an additional charge of $50 per hour for
each hour over two hours, shall be assessed to a customer desiring a waste
water service line cleanout after 4:00 p.m. on a regular city work day or on a
nonscheduled city work day. These fees shall not apply if the manager
determines during the course of the cleanout that the stoppage is on the city
waste water main.
   (C)   If, during the course of a waste water service line cleanout, the city
determines that the customer’s service line is defective, the city shall not
provide any additional cleanouts until the defective line is repaired, at the
customer’s expense.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.40 BULK WATER SALES.
   Bulk water sales at the water plant shall be assessed a fee $3 per 1,000
gallons plus a $20 loading fee. The minimum for bulk water sales is 1,000
gallons.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.41 CUSTOMER COPIES.
   Copies of customer statements shall be provided after payment of a fee of
$.10 per page in addition to a $30 per hour clerk fee. These fees apply to
copies picked up in person as well as to those provided by mail or fax.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.42 WASTE WATER RATES.
   (A)   Rates inside city limits. The rates and charges for sewer services
furnished by the city’s Water Works are hereby revised as follows.
      (1)   Minimum sewer rate. The monthly sewer rate shall be based upon the
gallons of water used each month. There is a minimum usage charge of 3,000
gallons of water per month for all years set forth herein.
      (2)   Meter rates for sewer usage. Effective date of this division (A)
(2): the following metered charges shall apply for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2021.
 
Number of Gallons of Water per Month Sewer Charges 1,000 Gallons Per Month
First 3,000 gallons                  $24.15 minimum charge
Next 7,000 gallons                   additional $7.38 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons                  additional $8.10 per 1,000 gallons
Next 20,000 gallons                  additional $8.10 per 1,000 gallons
Next 40,000 gallons                  additional $8.10 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (3)   Meter rates for sewer usage. Effective date of this division (A)
(3): the following metered charges shall apply for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2022.
 
Number of Gallons of Water per Month Sewer Charges Per 1,000 Gallons Per Month
First 3,000 gallons                  $24.87 minimum charge
Next 7,000 gallons                   additional $7.60 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons                  additional $8.34 per 1,000 gallons
Next 20,000 gallons                  additional $8.34 per 1,000 gallons
All over 40,000 gallons              additional $8.34 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (4)   Meter rates for sewer usage. Effective date of this division (A)
(4): the following metered charges shall apply for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2023.
 
Number of Gallons Of Water Per Month Sewer Charges per 1,000 Gallons Per Month
First 3,000 gallons                  $25.61 minimum charge
Next 7,000 gallons                   additional $7.82 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons                  additional $8.59 per 1,000 gallons
Next 20,000 gallons                  additional $8.59 per 1,000 gallons
All over 40,000 gallons              additional $8.59 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (5)   Meter rates for sewer usage. Effective date of this division (A)
(5): the following metered charges shall apply for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2024.
 
Number of Gallons of Water Per Month Sewer Charges per 1,000 Gallons Per Month
First 3,000 gallons                  $26.37 minimum charge
Next 7,000 gallons                   additional $8.84 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons                  additional $8.84 per 1,000 gallons
Next 20,000 gallons                  additional $8.84 per 1,000 gallons
All over 40,000 gallons              additional $8.84 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   Rates outside city limits. The rates and charges for sewer services
furnished by the city’s Water Works are hereby revised as follows.
      (1)   Minimum sewer rates. The monthly sewer rate shall be based upon the
gallons of water used each month. There is a minimum usage of 3,000 gallons of
water per month for all years set forth herein.
      (2)   Meter rates for sewer usage. Effective date of this division (B)
(2): the following metered charges shall apply for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2021.
 
Number of Gallons of Water Per Month Sewer Charges Per 1,000 Gallons Per Month
First 3,000 gallons                  $36.17 minimum charge
Next 7,000 gallons                   additional $11.07 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons                  additional $11.07 per 1,000 gallons
Next 20,000 gallons                  additional $11.07 per 1,000 gallons
All over 40,000 gallons              additional $11.07 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (3)   Meter rates for sewer usage. Effective date of this division (B)
(3): the following metered charges shall apply for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2022.
 
Number of Gallons of Water Per Month Sewer Charges Per 1,000 Gallons Per Month
First 3,000 gallons                  $37.25 minimum charge
Next 7,000 gallons                   additional $11.40 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons                  additional $11.40 per 1,000 gallons
Next 20,000 gallons                  additional $11.40 per 1,000 gallons
All over 40,000 gallons              additional $11.40 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (4)   Meter rates for sewer usage. Effective date of this division (B)
(4): the following metered charges shall apply for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2023.
 
Number of Gallons of Water per Month Sewer Charges Per 1,000 Gallons Per Month
First 3,000 gallons                  $38.36 minimum charge
Next 7,000 gallons                   additional $11.74 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons                  additional $11.74 per 1,000 gallons
Next 20,000 gallons                  additional $11.74 per 1,000 gallons
All over 40,000 gallons              additional $11.74 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (5)   Meter rates for sewer usage. Effective date of this division (B)
(5): the following metered charges shall apply for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2024.
 
Number of Gallons of Water Per Month Sewer Charges Per 1,000 Gallons Per Month
First 3,000 gallons                  $39.51 minimum charge
Next 7,000 gallons                   additional $12.09 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons                  additional $12.09 per 1,000 gallons
Next 20,000 gallons                  additional $12.09 per 1,000 gallons
All over 40,000 gallons              additional $12.09 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 6-12-2017; Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 51.43 WATER RATES.
   (A)   Rates inside city limits. The rates and charges for water services
furnished by the city’s Water Works are hereby revised as follows:
      (1)   Minimum water rate. There shall be a minimum usage charge of 3,000
gallons of water per month for all years set forth herein.
      (2)   Meter rates for water usage.
         (a)   Effective date of this division (A)(2): the following metered
charges shall apply for the fiscal year beginning 7-1-2017:
 
Number of Gallons of Water per Month Water Charges Per 1,000 Gallons Per Month
First 3,000 gallons                  $23.97 minimum charge
Next 7,000 gallons                   additional $6.47 per thousand gallons
Next 10,000 gallons                  additional $6.23 per thousand gallons
Next 20,000 gallons                  additional $5.09 per thousand gallons
All over 40,000 gallons              additional $5.09 per thousand gallons
 
         (b)   Water sold for resale: $2.10 per 1,000 gallons to County Water
District #1.
         (c)   Bulk water sales at water plant: $3 per 1,000 gallons minimum,
plus $20 loading fee.
      (3)   Meter rates for water usage.
         (a)   Effective date of this division (A)(3): the following metered
charges shall apply for the fiscal year beginning 7-1-2018.
 
Number of Gallons of Water Per Month Water Charges Per 1,000 Gallons Per Month
First 3,000 gallons                  $25.17 minimum charge
Next 7,000 gallons                   additional $6.79 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons                  additional $6.79 per 1,000 gallons
Next 20,000 gallons                  additional $5.60 per 1,000 gallons
All over 40,000 gallons              additional $5.60 per 1,000 gallons
 
         (b)   Water sold for resale: $2.10 per 1,000 gallons minimum to County
Water District #1.
         (c)   Bulk water sales at water plant: $3,00 per 1,000 gallons
minimum, plus $20 loading fee.
      (4)   Meter rates for water usage.
         (a)   Effective date of this division (A)(4): the following meters
charges shall apply for the fiscal year beginning 7-1-2019.
 
Number of Gallons of Water Per Month Water Charges per 1,000 Gallons Per Month
First 3,000 gallons                  $25.91 minimum charge
Next 7,000 gallons                   additional $6.99 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons                  additional $6.99 per 1,000 gallons
Next 20,000 gallons                  additional $5.77 per 1,000 gallons
All over 40,000 gallons              additional $5.77 per 1,000 gallons
 
         (b)   Water sold for resale: $2.10 per 1,000 gallons minimum to County
Water District #1.
         (c)   Bulk water sales at water plant: $3 per 1,000 gallons minimum,
plus $20 loading fee.
      (5)   Meter rates for water usage.
         (a)   Effective date of this division (A)(5): the following metered
charges shall apply for the fiscal year beginning 7-1-2020.
 
Number of Gallons of Water Per Month Water Charges per 1,000 Gallons Per Month
First 3,000 gallons                  $26.69 minimum charge
Next 7,000 gallons                   additional $7.20 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons                  additional $7.20 per 1,000 gallons
Next 20,000 gallons                  additional $5.94 per 1,000 gallons
All over 40,000 gallons              additional $5.94 per 1,000 gallons
 
         (b)   Water sold for resale: $2.10 per 1,000 gallons minimum to County
Water District #1.
         (c)   Bulk water sales at water plant: $3 per 1,000 gallons, plus $20
loading fee.
   (B)   Rates outside city limits. The rates and charges for water services
furnished by the city’s Water Works are hereby revised as follows:
      (1)   Minimum water rate. There shall be a minimum usage charge of 3,000
gallons of water per month for all years set forth herein.
      (2)   Meter rates for water usage.
         (a)   Effective date of this division (B)(2): the following metered
charges shall apply for the fiscal year beginning 7-1-2017 fiscal year.
 
Number of Gallons of Water Per Month Water Charges per 1,000 Gallons Per Month
First 3,000 gallons                  $36.27 minimum charge
Next 7,000 gallons                   additional $9.81 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons                  additional $9.34 per 1,000 gallons
Next 20,000 gallons                  additional $7.65 per 1,000 gallons
All over 40,000 gallons              additional $7.65 per 1,000 gallons
 
         (b)   Water sold for resale $2.10 per 1,000 gallons minimum to County
Water District #1.
         (c)   Bulk water sales at water plant: $3 per 1,000 gallons, plus $20
loading fee.
      (3)   Meter rates for water usage.
         (a)   Effective date of this division (B)(3): the following metered
charges shall apply for the fiscal year beginning 7-1-2018.
 
Number of Gallons of Water per Month Water Charges per 1,000 Gallons Per Month
First 3,000 gallons                  $38.45 minimum charge
Next 7,000 gallons                   additional $10.39 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons                  additional $10.27 per 1,000 gallons
Next 20,000 gallons                  additional $8.41 per 1,000 gallons
All over 40,000 gallons              additional $8,41 per 1,000 gallons
 
         (b)   Water sold for resale: $2.10 per 1,000 gallons minimum to County
Water District #1.
         (c)   Bulk water sales at water plant: $3 per 1,000 gallons, plus $20
loading fee.
      (4)   Meter rates for water usage.
         (a)   Effective date of this division (B)(4): the following metered
charges shall apply for the fiscal year beginning 7-1-2019.
 
Number of Gallons of Water per Month Water Charges per 1,000 Gallons Per Month
First 3,000 gallons                  $39.60 minimum charge
Next 7,000 gallons                   additional $10.70 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons                  additional $10.58 per 1,000 gallons
Next 20,000 gallons                  additional $8.66 per 1,000 gallons
All over 40,000 gallons              additional $8.66 per 1,000 gallons
 
         (b)   Water sold for resale: $2.10 per 1,000 gallons minimum to County
Water District #1.
         (c)   Bulk water sales at water plant: $3 per 1,000 gallons, plus $20
loading fee.
      (5)   Meter rates for water usage.
         (a)   Effective date of this division (B)(5): the following metered
charges shall apply for the fiscal year beginning 7-1-2020.
 
Number of Gallons Of Water per Month Water Charges per 1,000 Gallons Per Month
First 3,000 gallons                  $40.79 minimum charge
Next 7,000 gallons                   additional $11.02 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons                  additional $10.89 per 1,000 gallons
Next 20,000 gallons                  additional $8.92 per 1,000 gallons
All over 40,000 gallons              additional $8.92 per 1,000 gallons
 
         (b)   Water sold for resale $2.10 per 1,000 gallons minimum to LaRue
Water District #1.
         (c)   Bulk water sales at water plant: $3.00 per 1,000 gallons plus
$20.00 loading fee.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 51.44 MONTHLY USER FEE.
   (A)   Monthly user fee.
      (1)   A monthly user fee of $6 per three-quarter inch meter will be
assessed.
      (2)   A monthly user fee of $10 per one-inch meter will be assessed.
      (3)   A monthly user fee of $15 per 1.5-inch meter will be assessed.
      (4)   A monthly user fee of $20 per two-inch meter will be assessed.
      (5)   A monthly user fee of $40 per three- to four-inch meter will be
assessed.
      (6)   A monthly user fee of $75 per six-inch meter will be assessed.
   (B)   The user fee shall be effective with the July 2021 billing cycle.
   (C)   The user fee shall be in addition to the minimum usage charge of 3,000
gallons of water per month for all years set forth herein.
   (D)   The user fee shall be restricted for the use of meter debt reduction
and annual maintenance.
   (E)   Damage to any meter cover, meter box or meter device housed by the
meter box caused by the negligence of the property owner will be the
responsibility of the property owner.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 4-12-2021)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose and policy
   
52.002   Definitions
   
52.003   Abbreviations
Use of Public Sewers
   
52.015   Mandatory sewer connections
   
52.016   Unlawful discharge to storm sewers or natural outlets
   
52.017   Compliance with local, state and federal laws
   
52.018   Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewers
   
52.019   Prohibited discharges
Private Waste Water Disposal
   
52.030   Public sewer not available
   
52.031   Requirements for installation
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.045   Permits
   
52.046   Prohibited connections
   
52.047   Design and installations
   
52.048   Inspection
Pollutant Discharge Limits
   
52.060   General conditions
   
52.061   Restricted discharges
   
52.062   Dilution of waste water discharge
   
52.063   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
52.064   Special industrial pretreatment requirements
   
52.065   Protection from accidental and slug discharges
   
52.066   State requirements
   
52.067   City’s right of revision
   
52.068   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
Pretreatment Program Administration
   
52.080   Waste water discharges
   
52.081   Industrial user discharge permits
   
52.082   Permit modifications
   
52.083   Permit conditions
   
52.084   Alternative discharge limits
   
52.085   Permit duration
   
52.086   Permit transfer
   
52.087   Compliance data reporting
   
52.088   Periodic compliance reports
   
52.089   Permit violations
   
52.090   Monitoring
   
52.091   Inspection and sampling
   
52.092   Pretreatment
   
52.093   Annual publication
   
52.094   Significant non-compliance
   
52.095   Confidential information
   
52.096   Signatory requirements
Fees
   
52.110   Purpose
   
52.111   Charges and fee
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
52.125   Right to enter premises
   
52.126   Right to obtain information regarding discharge
   
52.127   Access to easements
   
52.128   Safety
Enforcement
   
52.140   General
   
52.141   Notice of violation
   
52.142   Administrative orders
   
52.143   Show cause hearing
   
52.144   Additional enforcement remedies
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the waste water collection and treatment system for the city
and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
required by the Clean Water Act of 1977, being Pub. Law No. 95-217 and the
general pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives to this chapter are:
      (1)   To the municipal waste water system which will interfere with the
operation of the system or contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal waste
water system which will pass through the system inadequately treated into
receiving waters so as to cause violations of the city’s KPDES permit or the
atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim waste waters and
sludges from the system;
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
waste water system;
      (5)   Provide for the safety of the treatment plant employees; and
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its KPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, sludge permit conditions, including use and
disposal requirements and any other federal or state environmental laws to
which the municipal waste water system is subject.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contribution to the municipal waste water system through the issuance of
permits to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city
who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city publicly
owned treatment works (POTW).
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Superintendent shall
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Secretary of the state’s Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Cabinet or an authorized representative thereof.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
      (1)   An AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE of a user may be:
         (a)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
         (b)   A general partner or proprietor if the user is a partnership or
proprietorship, respectively; and
         (c)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above is such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
      (2)   An AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE of the city may be any person
designated by the city to act on its behalf.
   BASELINE MONITORING REPORT (BMR). A report submitted by categorical
industrial users within 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
standard which indicates the compliance status of the user with the applicable
categorical standard (40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b)).
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration in milligrams
per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, water and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   BUILDING SEWER PERMIT. As set forth in §§
52.045 through
52.048 of this chapter.
   CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (CBOD). With chemical inhibition of
nitrification, the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of
organic matter under standard laboratory procedure, five days at 20°C expressed
in terms of concentration in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to categorical
pretreatment standards which have been promulgated by EPA.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS, NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARDS or PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of
the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1347), which applies to a specific category of industrial
users.
   CITY. The City of Hodgenville, Kentucky.
   CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA). (Also known as the FEDERAL WATER POLLUTION CONTROL
ACT.) Enacted by Pub. Law No. 92-500, 10-18-1972, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq: as
amended by Pub. Law No. 95-217, 12-28-1977; Pub. Law No. 97-117, 12-29-1981;
Pub. Law No. 97-440, 1-8-1983; and Pub. Law No. 100-04, 2-4-1987.
   COMBINED SEWER. Any conduit designed to carry both sanitary sewage and storm
water or surface water.
   COMBINED WASTESTREAM FORMULA (CWF). Procedure for calculating alternative
discharge limits at industrial facilities where a regulated wastestream is
combined with other non-regulated wastestreams prior to treatment (40 C.F.R. §
403.7).
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids and fecal
coliform bacteria; plus any additional pollutants identified in the POTW’s
NPDES/KPDES permit, where the POTW is designed to treat such pollutants and, in
fact, does treat such pollutants so as to ensure compliance with the POTW’s
NPDES/KPDES permit.
   CONCENTRATION-BASED LIMIT. A limit based on the relative strength of a
pollutant in a wastestream, usually expressed in mg/l.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The city when there exists an approved pretreatment
program under the provisions of 40 C.F.R. § 403.11.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The maximum allowable value for any single observation in a
given day.
   DILUTE WASTESTREAM. Boiler blowdown, sanitary waste water, non-contact
cooling water and certain process wastestreams that have been excluded from
regulation in categorical pretreatment standards because they contain none or
only trace amounts of the regulated pollutant.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated waste water directly
to the waters of the commonwealth.
   DISCHARGER. Any person that discharges or causes a discharge to a public
sewer.
   DOMESTIC WASTE WATER. The water-carried wastes produced from non-commercial
or non- industrial activities and which result from normal human living
processes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT. The liquid overflow of any facility designed to treat, convey or
retain waste water.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EQUIPMENT. All movable, non-fixed items necessary to the waste water
treatment process.
   FLOW PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. Combination of individual samples
proportional to the flow of the wastestream at the time of sampling.
   FLOW WEIGHTED AVERAGING FORMULA (FWA). A procedure used to calculate
alternative limits for a categorical pretreatment standard where regulated and
non-regulated wastestreams combine after treatment, but prior to the monitoring
point as defined in 40 C.F.R. part 403.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. All pollutants other than compatible pollutants, as
defined herein.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from any source regulated under § 307(b) or (c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317) into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). A source of indirect discharge.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The waste water from industrial or commercial processes
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   INTERCEPTOR. A device designed and installed so as to separate and retain
deleterious, hazardous or undesirable matter from normal wastes which permits
normal sewage or liquid wastes to discharge into the sewer or drainage system
by gravity. INTERCEPTOR, as defined herein, is commonly referred to as a
GREASE, OIL OR SAND TRAP.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and/or
      (2)   Is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES/
KPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued
thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): § 405 of the Clean
Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.; the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA)
(including Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.; and including state
regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to
Subtitle D of the SWDA (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act, the
Toxic Substances Control Act and the Marine Protection, Research and
Sanctuaries Act (40 C.F.R. § 403.3).
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (See SHALL.)
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood products,
pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding, surgical wastes,
potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis wastes.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The maximum allowable value for the average of all
observations obtained during one month.
   MULTI-UNIT SEWER CUSTOMER. A location served where there are two or more
residential units or apartments, two or more businesses in the same building or
complex or where there is any combination of business and residence in the same
building or complex.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act which applies to a
specific category of industrial users. This term includes prohibitive discharge
limits established pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NATIONAL (OR KENTUCKY) POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM OR NPDES/KPDES
PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1332), or a
permit issued by the commonwealth under this authority and referred to as
KPDES.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse,
pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or ground water.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is, or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section; provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source;
         (c)   The production or waste water generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site; and
         (d)   In determining whether these are substantially independent,
factors such the extent to which the new facility is integrated with the
existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same
general type of activity as the existing source should be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of divisions (1)(b) or (1)(c) above, but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
   NINETY- (90-) DAY COMPLIANCE REPORT. A report submitted by a categorical
industrial user, within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical standards that documents and certifies the compliance
status of the user (40 C.F.R. § 403.12(d)).
   ORDINANCE. This chapter, unless otherwise specified.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge of pollutant which cannot be treated adequately by
the POTW and, therefore, exits into waters of the United States in quantities
or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges
from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s
NPDES/KPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) (40 C.F.R. § 403.3).
   PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORT. A report on compliance status submitted by
significant industrial users to the control authority at least semiannually (40
C.F.R. § 403.12(e)).
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estates, government
entity of any other legal entity or their legal representatives, agent or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical, wrecked or discharged equipment,
rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste
discharged into water, including medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat and certain characteristics of waste
water (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, CBOD, COD, toxicity or
odor).
   POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological and radiological integrity of water.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to waste water.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in waste water to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process change(s), or other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6
(d).
   PROCESS WASTE WATER. Any water which, during manufacturing or processing,
comes into direct contact with or results from the production of or use of any
raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product or waste
product.
   PRODUCTION-BASED STANDARD. A discharge limitation expressed in terms of
allowable pollutant mass discharge rate per unit of production and is applied
directly to an industrial user’s manufacturing process.
   PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD. Any regulation developed under the authority
of § 307(b) of the Act and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility. In general, the PUBLIC SEWER shall include the main sewer in the
street and the service branch to the curb or property line, or a main sewer on
private property and the service branch to the extent of ownership by public
authority.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned in this instance by the city.
This definition includes any sewers that convey waste water to the POTW
treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purpose of this chapter,
POTW shall also include any sewers that convey waste waters to the POTW from
persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users
of the city’s POTW.
   REGULATED WASTESTREAM. An industrial process wastestream regulated by a
national categorical pretreatment standard.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
   SEWAGE. Any and all facilities used for collecting, conveying, pumping,
treating and disposing of waste water.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries waste water or drainage water.
   SEWER USER CHARGES. A system of charges levied on users of a POTW for the
cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement of such works.
   SEWER SYSTEM OR WORKS. All facilities for collecting, transporting, pumping,
treatment and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the sewerage system and
the POTW.
   SEWERAGE. Any and all facilities used for collecting, conveying, pumping,
treating and disposing of waste water.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (See MAY.)
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Defined by EPA guidance as:
      (1)   All industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. N; and
      (2)   Any non-categorical industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges 25,000 gallons per day or more of process waste water
(“process waste waters);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up to 5% or more
of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic (BOD, TSS and the like)
capacity of the treatment plant; or
         (c)   Has a reasonable potential, in the opinion of the control or
approval authority, to adversely affect the pollutants, sludge contamination or
endangerment of POTW workers).
   SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge of a non-routine episodic nature including,
but not limited to, an accidental spill or non-customary batch discharge or any
discharge of water or waste water in which the concentration of any given
constituent or quantity of flow exceeds, for any duration longer than 15
minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration or flow rate
during normal operation which adversely affects the POTW.
   SLUG LOAD. Any pollutant (including biochemical oxygen demand) released in a
discharge at a flow rate or concentration which will cause interference with
the operation of the treatment works or which exceeds limits set forth in the
industry’s discharge permit and which include accidental spills.
   SPILL PREVENTION AND CONTROL PLAN. A plan prepared by an industrial user to
minimize the likelihood of a spill and to expedite control and cleanup
activities should a spill occur.
   SPLIT SAMPLE. Portion of a collected sample given to the industry or to
another agency to verify or compare laboratory results.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification scheme based on
the type of industry or process at a facility.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
recent editions of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Waste
Water, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation as
specified at 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   STATE. Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STORM DRAIN. (Sometimes termed STORM SEWER.) A drain or sewer for conveying
water, ground water, surface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the city to supervise the publicly
owned treatment works and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter or his or her duly authorized representative.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for services in addition to the basic sewer user and
debt service charges, for those users whose contributions contain biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD5), chemical oxygen demand (COD), total suspended solids
(TSS), oil and grease or ammonia-nitrogen (NH3-N) in concentrations which
exceed limits specified herein for such pollutants. Where authorized by the
control authority, payment of a SURCHARGE will authorize the discharge of the
referenced pollutants so long as the discharge does not cause pass through or
interference.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, waste water or other liquids and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Waste Water.
   TIME PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. Combination of individual samples with
fixed volumes taken at special time intervals.
   TOXIC ORGANIC MANAGEMENT PLAN. Written plan submitted by industrial users as
an alternative to TTO monitoring, which specifies toxic organic compounds used,
the method of disposal used and procedures for assuring that toxic organics do
not routinely spill or leak into waste water discharge to the POTW.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of EPA under the provisions of
the Clean Water Act § 307(a) or any amendments thereto.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the treatment
works effluent criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and waste water treatment facilities.
   UNREGULATED WASTESTREAM. A wastestream that is not regulated by a national
categorical pretreatment standards.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
waste water into the POTW.
   WASTE WATER. The spent water of a community, sanitary or domestic wastes
shall mean the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial
building and institutions as distinct from industrial waste.
   WASTE WATER DISCHARGE PERMIT (WDP). A permit issued to industrial users
which authorizes discharges to the public sewer as set forth herein.
   WASTE WATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away, treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTE WATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating waste water, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTE WATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT or SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings.
   ADMI. American Dye Manufacturers Institute.
   ASTM. American Institute for Testing and Materials.
   BMP. Best management practices.
   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
   BPJ. Best professional judgment.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CIU. Categorical industrial user.
   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
   CWA. Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.).
   CWF. Combines wastestream formula.
   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
   FWA. Flow weighted average.
   FR. Federal Register.
   gpd. Gallons per day.
   IU. Industrial user.
   KPDES. Kentucky Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   l. Liter.
   mg. Milligrams.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
   RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
   SIC. Standard industrial classification.
   SIU. Significant industrial user.
   SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal, Act 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
   TSS. Total suspended solids.
   TTO. Total toxic organics.
   U.S.C. United States Code.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 52.015 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby
required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect with such facilities directly with the proper sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so; provided that, said public sewer is within 100 feet
(30.5 meters) of the property line.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
waste water where public sanitary sewer service is available, as defined in
division (A) above, except as provided for in §§
52.030 and
52.031 of this chapter.
   (C)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private waste water disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public system within 60 days in compliance with this chapter, and any
septic tanks, cesspools and similar private waste water disposal facilities
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material or salvaged and
removed.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited any pollutant in any unsanitary manner on public or private property
within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, except in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet or storm
sewer within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any
sanitary waste water or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
or management has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of
this chapter.
      (2)   No provision of this chapter shall be construed to relieve the
owner of a discharge to any natural outlet of the responsibility for complying
with applicable state and federal regulations governing such discharge.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.017 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   The discharge of any waste water into the public sewer system by any person
is unlawful, except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and any
more stringent state or federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.,
the Clean Water Act of 1977 being Pub. Law No. 95-217, and subsequent
amendments, and 40 C.F.R. part 403.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.018 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS INTO SEWERS.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged, through any
leak, defect or connection any unpolluted waters such as storm water, ground
water, roof runoff or subsurface drainage to any sanitary sewer, building
sewer, building drain or building plumbing. The Superintendent or his or her
representative shall have the right, at any time, to inspect the inside or
outside of buildings or smoke test for connections, leaks or defects to
building sewers and require disconnection or repair of any pipes carrying such
water to the building sewer. No sanitary drain sump or sump pump discharge by
manual switch-over of discharge connection shall have a dual use for removal of
such water.
   (B)   The owners of any building sewers having such connections, leaks or
defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.019 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant waste water which will interfere with performance of
the POTW.
      (2)   These general prohibitions apply to all such users of a POTW
whether or not the user is subject to national categorical pretreatment
standards or any other national, state or local pretreatment standards or
requirements.
   (B)   A user shall not contribute the following substances to the POTW:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall the waste water exhibit
a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140°F or 60°C using the test methods
specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five or higher than ten
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the POTW;
      (3)   Any slug load of pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants
(BOD and the like) released at a flow rate and/or concentration that will cause
interference with the normal operation of the POTW;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the waste water facilities (i.e., wood, glass, ashes, sand,
cinders, unshredded garbage, paper products such as cups, dishes, napkins and
milk containers and the like);
      (5)   Any waste water having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
waste water with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW that will
result in a treatment plant influent temperature which exceeds 40°C (104°F);
      (6)   Any pollutant(s) which result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems;
      (7)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scum, to he unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the
POTW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in non-compliance with sludge use
or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of the
Act; any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq., the Clean Air Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances
Control Act being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq. or state criteria applicable to the
sludge management method being used;
      (8)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES/KPDES
permit and/or sludge disposal system permit;
      (9)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through at the POTW;
and/or
      (10)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants except at discharge points
designed by the POTW.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
PRIVATE WASTE WATER DISPOSAL
§ 52.030 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§§
52.015 through
52.019 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected, until the public
sewer is available, to a private waste water disposal system complying with the
provisions of the county’s Health Department and all applicable local and state
regulations.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (C)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by applicable
local or state regulations.
   (D)   Holders of NPDES/KPDES permits maybe excepted. Industries with current
NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge at permitted discharge points; provided, they
are in compliance with the issuing authority.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.031 REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all local or state regulations.
   (B)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the local and state
authorities.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.045 PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits required:
         (a)   For residential; and
         (b)   For service to commercial and industrial establishments.
      (2)   In either case, the owner(s) or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city.
      (3)   Applicants for service to commercial and industrial establishments
shall be required to furnish information about all waste producing activities,
waste water characteristics and constituents. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. Details regarding commercial
and industrial permits include, but are not limited to, those required by this
chapter.
      (4)   Permit and inspection fees shall be paid to the city at the time
the application is filed.
   (B)   Users shall promptly notify the city in advance of any introduction of
waste water constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the waste water constituents being introduced into the POTW. The
Superintendent may deny or condition the new introduction or change in
discharge based on the information submitted in the notification or additional
information as may be requested.
   (C)   No person(s) shall uncover, plug or make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining permission from the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.046 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, basement wall seepage or
floor seepage, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other surface
runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Any such
connections which already exist on the effective date of this chapter shall be
completely and permanently disconnected within 60 days of the effective date of
this chapter. The owner(s) of any building sewers having such connections,
leaks or defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources.
Pipes, sumps and pumps for such sources of ground and surface water shall be
separate from waste water facilities. Removal of such sources of water without
presence of separate facilities shall be evidence of drainage to public
sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.047 DESIGN AND INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway. The sewer from
the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any
obligations or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
single connection aforementioned.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter. Permit and inspection fees for new buildings
using existing building sewers shall be the same as for new building sewers. If
additional sewer customers are added to the old building sewers, additional
sewer tap fees shall be charged accordingly even though no new sewer tap is
actually made into the city system.
   (C)   Extension of customer service lines from any point on the customer’s
side of the tap for delivery of waste from any location other than that of the
customer in whose name the tap is registered shall not be permitted.
   (D)   (1)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM A-74,
latest revision, PVC (polyvinyl-chloride) sewer pipe, ASTM D-3034, latest
version, or ductile iron pipe, AWWA specification C-151 cement lined, and shall
meet requirements of the state’s Plumbing Code. Joints shall be as set out
hereinafter.
      (2)   Any part of the building sewer that is located within five feet of
a water service pipe shall be constructed with cast iron soil pipe or ductile
iron pipe, unless the building sewer is at least one foot deeper in the ground
than the water service line. Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe shall be
used in filled or unstable ground, in areas where the cover over the building
sewer is less than three feet, or in areas where the sewer is subject to
vehicular or other external loads.
   (E)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the local and State Building and Plumbing Codes and other applicable rules and
regulations of the city.
   (F)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
to the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s).the owner(s) shall
indemnify the city for any loss of damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. Fees for connection shall
be as established by the city.
   (G)   The owner shall ensure all excavations for building sewer installation
shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the
public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory
to the city.
   (H)   In all buildings in which any sanitary facility drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the same building sewer.
Drain pipe and sump for collection of such sanitary drainage shall be above
basement floor or in separately water-tight or drained sump or channel.
   (I)   The building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer at the
easement or property line. Where no property located service branch is
available, an authorized agent of the city shall cut a neat hole into the main
line of the public sewer and a suitable wye or tee saddle installed to receive
the building sewer. The invert of the building sewer at such point of
connection with a saddle shall be in the upper quadrant to the main line of the
public sewer. A neat workmanlike connection, not extending past the inner
surface of the public sewer, shall be made and the saddle made secure and
water-tight by encasement in epoxy cement specially prepared for this purpose.
A wye fitting shall be installed at the property line between the public sewer
and the building sewer. This fitting shall serve the purpose of a clean out and
for applying the smoke test during inspection of the line. After testing, a
cast iron or ductile iron riser will be inserted in this fitting and brought
flush with the ground surface. A stopper or plug, outfitted with a type joint
applicable to the pipe used, shall seal this riser against the intrusion of
ground or surface water.
   (J)   All building sanitary sewer lines will be installed so as to meet or
exceed the most current revision of the state’s Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.048 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent
or his or her representative. The connections shall be made gas-tight and
water- tight and verified by proper testing.
   (B)   All building sewers shall be smoke tested through the wye branch at
the public sewer connection, with public sewer tightly plugged off, after
connections at both ends are made and after all pipe is properly bedded and
backfilled at least to top of pipe and if backfill is completed, within two
weeks after completion of backfill. At time of test, any openings into the
building drain inside the building shall be water trapped or plugged. Any
leakage of smoke from building sewer or building drain and plumbing shall be
located at test and repaired to stand repetition of smoke test without leakage.
When smoke testing is completed, the temporary flow line plug shall be removed
and a permanent water- tight plug shall be placed in branch of test wye-branch
and carefully backfilled by hand and tamped to at least six inches above the
top of the branch.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS
§ 52.060 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   The following described substances, materials, waters or wastes shall be
limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentration or quantities
which: will not harm either the sewers, waste water treatment process or
equipment will maintain and protect water quality in the receiving stream; and
will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. The Superintendent may set additional limitations or limitations more
stringent than those established in the provisions below if in his or her
opinion more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In
forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of a discharge, the
Superintendent shall give consideration to such factors as the quantity of
subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, the waste water treatment process employed,
capacity of the waste water treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.061 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   The following are restricted:
   (A)   Waste water containing more than 50 milligrams per liter of petroleum
oil, non-biodegradable cutting oils or products of mineral oil origin;
   (B)   Waste water containing floatable oils, fat or grease, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures 32-
150°F (0-65°C);
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders may
be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, motels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage originates
from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the
premises or when served by caterers;
   (D)   Any waste water containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants which: injure or
interfere with any waste water treatment process; constitute a hazard to humans
or animals; causes the city to violate the terms of its KPDES permit; prevents
the use of acceptable sludge disposal methods; or exceed a limitation set forth
in a categorical pretreatment standard;
   (E)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations;
   (F)   Any water or wastes which by interaction with other water or wastes in
the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids which
interfere with the collection system or create a condition deleterious to
structures and treatment processes;
   (G)   Any waste water with objectable color which cannot be removed to an
acceptable level within the operation of the waste water treatment process;
   (H)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the waste water treatment processes employed to the
extent required by the city’s NPDES/KPDES permit;
   (I)   Any waste(s) or waste water(s) classified as a hazardous waste by the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) without a 60-day prior
notification of such discharge to the Superintendent. This notification must
include the name of the hazardous waste, the EPA hazardous waste number, type
of discharge, volume/mass of discharge and time of occurrence(s). The
Superintendent may prohibit or condition the discharge(s) at any time;
   (J)   Waste water identified as causing, alone or in conjunction with other
sources, the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
   (K)   Recognizable portions of human or animal anatomy;
   (L)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents or other
substances which will cause excessive foaming in the municipal waste water
system;
   (M)   (1)   Any water or wastes which have characteristics based on a 24-
hour composite sample, grab or a shorter period composite sample, if more
representative, that exceed the following normal maximum domestic waste water
parameter concentrations:
 
Parameter              Maximum Allowable Concentration Without Surcharges
BOD                    250 mg/l
COD                    375 mg/l
TSS                    250 mg/l
NH3-N                  40 mg/l
Oil and grease [total] 100 mg/l
 
      (2)   Any person discharging waste water exceeding the maximum allowable
concentration as noted above, will be subject to a surcharge fee for each pound
loading over and above the set limit. Any other amenable constituents requiring
the additional of specific chemicals for proper treatment will also be subject
to a surcharge as noted on the waste water discharge permit. Exceedance of the
effluent limits specified above shall not be deemed to constitute a violation
of a permit condition of this chapter if the appropriated surcharge fee is paid
and the discharge does not cause interference or pass through of the POTW.
   (N)   The following limitations are established for characteristics of any
waste waters to be discharged into the municipal sewer system. All significant
industrial users must comply with these limitations where they are more
stringent than applicable state and/or federal regulations.
Parameter Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/L)
Parameter            Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/L)
Arsenic
Cadmium
Chromium
Copper
Cyanide, total       [These parameters are to be determined by amendment if and
Lead                 when applicable]
Mercury
Nickel
Silver
Zinc
Total toxic organics
 
   (O)   (1)   The city has received authority through the U.S. EPA and state
statutes to enforce the requirements of 40 C.F.R. Subch. N, 40 C.F.R. part 403
and 40 C.F.R. part 35.
      (2)   All users shall comply with the requirements of those regulations.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.062 DILUTION OF WASTE WATER DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal
categorical pretreatment standards, or in any pollutant specific limitation
developed by the city or state.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.063 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptor shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the
maintaining of these interceptors the owner(s) shall be responsible for the
proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and
shall maintain records of the dates, and means of disposal. The city may
require that hauling of the collected materials not performed by owner(s)
personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
Interceptors shall also comply with applicable regulations of the county’s
Health Department.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.064 SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements imposed on publicly owned waste water
treatment works by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972
and later amendments, all pretreatment standards promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency for new and existing industrial dischargers to
public sewer systems are hereby made a part of this chapter. Any industrial
waste discharge which violates these EPA pretreatment standards shall be in
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, the industry shall be solely responsible for
the continued maintenance in satisfactory and effective operation of such
facilities at their own expense. The city may agree to assume these
responsibilities if proper and appropriate arrangement for reimbursement of
costs are made.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who transports septic tank, seepage pit or cesspool
contents, liquid industrial waste or other batch liquid waste and wishes to
discharge such waste to the public sewer system shall first have a valid
discharge permit. All applicants for a discharge permit shall complete the
application form, pay the appropriate fee and receive a copy of the city’s
regulations governing discharge to sewers of liquid wastes from trucks. All
persons receiving such permits shall agree, in writing, to abide by all
applicable provisions of this chapter, and any other special provisions that
may be established by the city as necessary for the proper operation and
maintenance of the sewerage system.
      (2)   In addition any person holding a valid permit and wishing to
discharge to the waste water treatment plant must submit to the chief operator
a sample of each load prior to discharge. A fee and payment schedule shall be
established in the permit to cover cost of the required analysis.
      (3)   It shall be illegal to discharge any batch liquid waste into any
manhole or other part of the public sewer system, or any building sewer or
other facility that discharges to the public sewer system, except at designated
points of discharge specified by the city for such purpose.
      (4)   Any liquid waste hauler illegally discharging to the public sewer
system or discharging waste water not authorized in the permit shall be subject
to immediate revocation of discharge privileges and further subject to the
penalties and enforcement actions prescribed in §
52.999 of this chapter, including fines and imprisonment.
      (5)   Waste haulers who have been granted permission to discharge to the
public sewer system shall pay fees for such discharge in accordance with a fee
schedule established by the Superintendent and approved by the city.
      (6)   Nothing in this chapter shall relieve waste haulers of the
responsibility for compliance with County Health Department, state or federal
regulations.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.065 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL AND SLUG DISCHARGES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Each significant industrial user shall provide protection from
accidental and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials or other substances
regulated by this chapter which adversely affects the POTW. Facilities to
prevent accidental and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner or user’s own cost and expense. Once every
two years, the Superintendent will determine whether each industrial user needs
to develop or update a plan to control slug discharges. If the Superintendent
determines that a slug control plan or revision is necessary, the plan shall
contain the following:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices;
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals;
         (c)   Procedures for notifying the POTW; and
         (d)   Prevention procedures for spills.
      (2)   In the case of all possible or actual accidental and/or slug
discharges, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and
notify the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include location of
discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume and corrective actions.
   (B)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the Superintendent a detailed written report
describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user
to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a
result of damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties or other liability which may be imposed by this subchapter, the
enforcement response plan or other applicable law.
   (C)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.066 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.067 CITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish more stringent limitations, or
requirements on discharges to the POTW if deemed necessary to comply with the
objectives presented in this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.068 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of federal categorical pretreatment standards for a
particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent than
limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory, shall
immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
§ 52.080 WASTE WATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to the POTW any waste water except
as authorized by the city in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any agency, non-domestic user and/or industry outside the jurisdiction
of the city that desires to contribute waste water to the POTW must execute
(through an authorized representative) an interjurisdictional agreement,
whereby the agency and/or industry agrees to be regulated by all provisions of
this chapter and state and federal regulations. An industrial user permit may
then be issued by the Superintendent in accordance with §
52.081 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.081 INDUSTRIAL USER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   General. All significant industrial users proposing to connect to or
to contribute to the POTW shall obtain an industrial user permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
   (B)   Permit application. Users required to obtain an industrial user permit
shall complete and file with the city, an application in the form prescribed by
the city, and accompanied by a permit fee. New users shall apply at least 90
days prior to connecting to or contributing to the POTW. Existing permit holder
shall apply no later than 60 days prior to expiration of permit. In support of
the application, the user shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for
evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and location if different from the address;
      (2)   SIC number(s) according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, United States Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Waste water constituents and characteristics as determined by an
analytical laboratory acceptable to the city; sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to §
304(g) of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and contained in
40 C.F.R. part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily and 30-minute peak waste water flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by the city, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional pretreatment
is required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   (a)   If additional pretreatment will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standards;
         (b)   The following conditions shall apply to this schedule.
            1.   The schedule must be acceptable to the city.
            2.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form
of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards.
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress and the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
the rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number of employees and hours of operation of plant and proposed
or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application; and
      (14)   A copy of the industry’s written environmental control program,
comparable document or policy.
   (C)   Issuance. The city shall evaluate the data furnished by the user and
may require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the City Engineer or his or her designee may issue an industrial
waste water discharge permit subject to terms and conditions provided herein.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.082 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standards, the industrial waste water discharge permit of users
subject to such standards shall be revised to required compliance with such
standards within the time frame prescribed by such standards. Where a user,
subject to national categorical pretreatment standards, has not previously
submitted an application for an industrial waste water discharge permit as
required, the user shall apply for an industrial waste water discharge permit
within 90 days after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical
pretreatment standards. In addition, the user with an existing industrial waste
water discharge permit shall submit, to the City Engineer within 90 days after
the promulgation of an applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard,
the information required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.083 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Industrial waste water discharge permits shall be expressly subject to
all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user
charges and fees established by the city.
   (B)   Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit surcharges or schedule of other charges and fees for the
waste water to be discharged to a community sewer;
      (2)   Limits on the average and/or maximum waste water constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
location; frequency of sampling; number, type and standards for tests; and
reporting schedule;
      (6)   Compliance schedules;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining, for a minimum of three
years, all plant records relating to pretreatment and/ or waste water discharge
as specified by the city, and affording city access thereto as required by 40
C.F.R. § 403.12(o)(2);
      (9)   Requirements for notification of the city of any new introduction
of waste water constituents or any substantial change in the volume or
character of the waste water constituents being introduced into the waste water
treatment system;
      (10)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
      (11)   The permit may require the user to reimburse the city for all
expenses related to monitoring, sampling and testing performed at the direction
of the City Engineer and deemed necessary by the city to verify that the user
is in compliance with the said permit; and
      (12)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.084 ALTERNATIVE DISCHARGE LIMITS.
   (A)   Where an effluent from a categorical industrial process(es) is mixed
prior to treatment with waste water other than that generated by the regulated
process, fixed alternative discharge limits may be derived for the discharge
permit by the Superintendent. These alternative limits shall be applied to the
mixed effluent and shall be calculated using the combined wastestream formula
and/or flow-weighted average formula, as defined in §
52.002 of this chapter.
   (B)   Where the effluent limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are
expressed only in terms of mass of pollutants per unit of production
(production-based standard), the Superintendent may covert the limits to
equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of pollutant discharged per day
or of effluent concentration for purposes of calculating effluent permit
limitations applicable to the permittee. The permittee shall be subject to all
permit limits calculated in this manner under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c) and must
fully comply with these alternative limits.
   (C)   All categorical users subject to production-based standards must
report production rates annually so that alternative permit limits can be
calculated, if necessary. The categorical user must notify the Superintendent
30 days in advance of any major change in production levels that will affect
the limits for the discharge permit.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.085 PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five
years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be stated to
expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum
of 60 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing permit. The terms and
conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the city during the
term of the permit as limitations or requirements as identified in §§
52.060 through 52.068 of this chapter are modified or other just cause exists.
The user shall be informed of any proposed changes in their permit at least 30
days prior to the effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in
the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.086 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Industrial user permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. An industrial user permit shall not be reassigned or transferred or
sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or changed operation
without a 30-day prior notification to the Superintendent and provision of a
copy of the existing permit to the new owner. The Superintendent may deny the
transfer of the permit if it is deemed necessary.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.087 COMPLIANCE DATA REPORTING.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new user, following
commencement of the introduction of waste water into the POTW, any user subject
to federal categorical pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit, to
the Superintendent, a report indicating the nature and concentration of all
pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
categorical pretreatment standards and requirements and the average and maximum
daily flow for these process units in the user’s facility which are limited by
such categorical standards and requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable categorical pretreatment standards and requirements are being met on
a consistent basis and, if no, what additional pretreatment and time schedule
is necessary to bring the user into compliance with the applicable categorical
pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement shall be signed by an
authorized representative of the user.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.088 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   All significant industrial users shall submit, to the
Superintendent, every six months (on dates specified in the industrial user
permit) unless required more frequently by the permit, a report indicating, at
a minimum, the nature and concentration, of pollutants in the effluent which
are limited by such pretreatment standards or discharge permit in addition,
this report shall include a record of all daily flows which during the
reporting period exceeded the average daily flow.
      (2)   At the discretion of the Superintendent and in consideration of
such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles and the
like, the Superintendent may agree to alter the months during which the above
reports are to be submitted.
   (B)   All analyses shall be performed by a laboratory acceptable to the
city. Analytical procedures shall be in accordance with procedures established
by the U.S. EPA Administrator pursuant to § 304(g) of the Clean Water Act,
being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and
amendments thereto and 40 C.F.R. part 261 or with any other test procedures
approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator. Sampling shall be performed in
accordance with the techniques approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator.
   (C)   Where 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not include a sampling or analytical
technique for the pollutant(s) in question, sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication,
Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for
Priority Pollutants, April 1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other
sampling and analytical procedures approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator.
   (D)   A baseline monitoring report (BMR) must be submitted to the
Superintendent by all categorical industrial users at least 90 days prior to
initiation of discharge to the sanitary sewer. The BMR must contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      (1)   Production data: a process description, SIC code number, raw
materials used, chemicals used, final product, pretreatment industrial category
(if applicable), and a schematic which indicates points of discharge to the
sewer system;
      (2)   Identifying information to include name, address of facility, owner
(s), contact person and any other permits held by the facility;
      (3)   Waste water characteristics: total plant flow, types of discharges,
average and maximum flows from each process;
      (4)   Nature/concentration of pollutants: analytical results for all
pollutants regulated by this chapter and/or any applicable federal pretreatment
standard and sample type and location. All analyses must conform with 40 C.F.R.
part 136 and amendments thereto; and
      (5)   Information concerning any pretreatment equipment used to treat the
facility’s discharge.
   (E)   New sources shall give estimates of the information requested in
divisions (C) and (D) above, but at no time shall a new source commence
discharge(s) to the public sewer of substances that do not meet provisions of
this chapter. All new sources must be in compliance with all provisions of this
chapter, state and federal pretreatment regulations prior to commencement of
discharge to the public sewer.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.089 PERMIT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users must notify the Superintendent within
24 hours of first becoming aware of a permit violation. This notification shall
include the date of violation, the parameter violation and the amount in
exceedance.
   (B)   The user shall immediately repeat the sampling and analysis of the
parameter(s) in question and submit the results to the Superintendent within 30
days after becoming, aware of the violation. Exception to this regulation is
only if the city performs the sampling within the same time period for the same
parameter(s) in question.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.090 MONITORING.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall require significant users to provide and operate,
at the user’s own expense, monitoring facilities and equipment necessary to
allow inspection, sampling and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or
internal drainage system. The monitoring facility should normally be situated
on the user’s premises, but the city may, when such a location would be
impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be
constructed in a public right of-way. The Superintendent shall review and
approve the location, plans and specifications for such monitoring facilities
and may require them to be constructed to provide for the separate monitoring
and sampling of industrial waste and sanitary sewage flows.
      (2)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or
facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
The facility shall be designed and maintained in a manner such that the safety
of city and industrial personnel shall be foremost. The facility, sampling and
measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a proper operating
condition at the expense of the user.
      (3)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
approval of the location, plans and specifications.
   (B)   All sampling analyses done in accordance with approved federal EPA
procedures by the industrial user during a reporting period shall be submitted
to the Superintendent regardless of whether or not that analysis was required
by the industrial user’s discharge permit.
   (C)   The industrial user must receive the approval of the Superintendent
before changing the sampling point and/or monitoring facilities to be used in
all required sampling.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.091 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether
the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where waste water is created or
discharged shall allow the city or their representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling copying records, records examination or in the performance of any of
their duties.
   (B)   (1)   The city, approval authority and EPA shall have the right to set
up on the user’s property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling,
inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations.
      (2)   Where a user has security measures in force which would require
property identification and clearance before entry onto their premises, the
user shall make the necessary arrangements with their security guards so that
upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the city, approval
authority and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes
of performing their specific responsibilities.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.092 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall provide necessary waste water
treatment as required to comply with this chapter and achieve compliance with
any applicable federal categorical pretreatment standards within the time
limitations as specified by the federal pretreatment regulations.
   (B)   The city may require the development of a compliance schedule for
installation of pretreatment technology and/or equipment by any industrial user
that cannot meet discharge limits required by this chapter.
   (C)   Any facilities required to pretreat waste water to a level required by
this chapter shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user’s expense.
Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the city for review, and shall be acceptable to the city
before construction of the facility.
   (D)   The review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary
to produce an effluent that complies with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of
operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior to the
user’s initiation of the changes.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.093 ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   (A)   The city shall annually publish in its largest daily newspaper a list
of significant users which were in significant non-compliance with any
pretreatment requirements or standards. The notification shall also summarize
any enforcement actions taken against the user(s) during the same 12 months.
   (B)   All records relating to the city’s pretreatment program shall be made
available to officials of the EPA or approval authority upon request. All
records shall be maintained for a minimum of three years in accordance with 40
C.F.R. § 403.12(o)(2).
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.094 SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE.
   A user is defined as being in SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE when it commits one
or more of the following conditions:
   (A)   Causes imminent endangerment to human health or the environment or
results in the exercise of emergency authority;
   (B)   Involves failure to report non-compliance accurately;
   (C)   Results in a chronic violation defined here as 66% or more of all
measurements taken during a six-month period that exceed (by any magnitude) the
daily maximum limit or the monthly average limit for the same pollutant
parameter;
   (D)   Results in a technical review criteria (TRC) violation defined here as
33% or more of all measurements for each pollutant parameter taken during a
six-month period that equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum limit or
the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS,
fats and oil and grease and 1.2 for all other pollutants, except pH);
   (E)   Any violation of a pretreatment effluent limit that the control
authority determines has caused, along or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through or has endangered the health of the POTW personnel
or the public;
   (F)   Any discharge causing imminent endangerment to human health/welfare or
to the environment or resulting in the POTW’s use of its emergency authority to
halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (G)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, failure to comply with
schedule milestones for starting or completing construction or attaining final
compliance by 90 days or more after the schedule date;
   (H)   Failure to provide required reports within 30 days of the due date;
and
   (I)   Any violation or group of violations which the control authority
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.095 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests in writing and is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the city that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available to all
governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES/KPDES permit,
sludge disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment programs upon request
such portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state
agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Waste water constituents and characteristics shall not
be recognized as confidential information and shall be available to the public
without restriction.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.096 SIGNATORY REQUIREMENTS.
   All applications, reports or information submitted to the city shall be
signed and certified.
   (A)   All permit applications shall be signed:
      (1)   For a corporation: by a principal executive officer of at least the
level of vice-president; or
      (2)   For a partnership or sole proprietorship: by a general partner or
the proprietor, respectively.
   (B)   All other correspondence, reports and self-monitoring reports shall be
signed by a person described above or by a duly authorized representative of
that person. A person is a duly authorized representative only if:
      (1)   The authorization is made in writing by a person described above;
and
      (2)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having facility or activity, such as the position of plant manager,
superintendent or position of equivalent responsibility.
   (C)   Any person signing a document under this section shall make the
following certification: “I certify under penalty of law that I am familiar
with the information contained in this report and its attachments and that to
the best of my knowledge and belief such information is true, complete and
accurate.”
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
FEES
§ 52.110 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter provides for the recovery of costs from users of the POTW
for the implementation of the program established herein. The applicable
charges or fees shall be set forth in the city’s schedule of charges and fees.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.111 CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city may adopt charges and fees which may include:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
city’s pretreatment program;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
      (4)   Fees for permit applications;
      (5)   Fees for filing appeal;
      (6)   Fees for consistent removal by the POTW of excessive strength
conventional pollutants; and
      (7)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
   (B)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the city.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 52.125 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The Superintendent and other duly promulgated employees and representatives
of the city and authorized representatives of applicable federal and state
regulatory agencies bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to discharges to the public sewer
system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.126 RIGHT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION REGARDING DISCHARGE.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city and
authorized representatives of applicable federal and state regulatory agencies
bearing proper credentials and identification are authorized to obtain
information including, but not limited to, copying of records concerning
character, strength and quantity of industrial wastes which have a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the waste water collection
system.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.127 ACCESS TO EASEMENTS.
   Duly authorized employees and representatives of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purpose of, but no limited to, construction, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portions of the waste
water facilities lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any on said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.128 SAFETY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
52.127 of this chapter, all duly authorized employees of the city shall observe
all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company. The
company shall be held blameless for injury or death to city employees. The city
shall secure the company against loss or damage to its property by city
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.140 GENERAL.
   (A)   The city, through the Superintendent or his or her designee, to ensure
compliance with this chapter, and as permitted through 40 C.F.R. Subch. N and
401 KAR 5:055, may take the following enforcement steps against users in non-
compliance with this subchapter. The remedies available to the POTW include
injunctive relief, civil and criminal penalties, immediate discontinuance of
discharges and/or water service and the publishing of the list of significant
violators annually. The enforcement authority shall be vested in the
Superintendent or his or her designee.
   (B)   The Superintendent may suspend the waste water treatment service and/
or an industrial user permit when such suspension is necessary, in the opinion
of the city, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents
or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare
of persons, to the environment, causes interference to the POTW or causes the
city to violate any condition of its NPDES/KPDES permit.
   (C)   Any user notified of a suspension of the waste water treatment service
and/or the industrial user permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The city shall
reinstate the industrial user permit and/or the waste water treatment service
upon proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge. A detailed
written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be
submitted to the city within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.141 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any user found to be violating any provisions of this chapter, waste
water permit or any order issued hereunder, shall be served by the city with
written notice stating the nature of the violation(s). Within ten days of the
receipt date of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required
actions, shall be submitted to the Superintendent. Submission of this plan in
no way relieves the user of potential liability for any violation occurring
before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (B)   If the violations persist or the explanation and/or plan are not
adequate, the city’s response shall be more formal and commitments (or
schedules as appropriate) for compliance will be established in an enforceable
document. The enforcement response selected will be related to the seriousness
of the violation. Enforcement responses will be escalated if compliance is not
achieved expeditiously after the initial action. A significant non-compliance,
as defined in §
52.094 of this chapter, will require a formal enforcement action.
   (C)   The full scale of enforcement actions will be as detailed in the
enforcement response plan.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.142 ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.
   (A)   Any user who after receiving a notice of violation shall continue to
discharge in violation of this chapter or other pretreatment standards or
requirements or is determined to be a chronic or persistent violator or who is
determined to be a significant violator, shall be ordered to appear before the
city. At said appearance, a compliance schedule will be given to the non-
conforming user and an administrative fine assessed. The fine shall be
determined on a case-by-case basis which shall consider the type and severity
of violations, duration of violation, number of violations, severity of impact
on the POTW, impact on human health, users economic benefit from the violation,
history of violations, good faith of the user and shall be a non-arbitrary, but
appropriate, amount.
   (B)   The administrative order may take any of the following three forms.
      (1)   Consent orders. The Superintendent or his or her designee is hereby
empowered to enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or
other similar documents establishing an agreement with the user responsible for
the non-compliance. Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the
user to correct the non-compliance within a time period also specified by the
order. Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as orders issued
pursuant to division (B)(3) below.
      (2)   Compliance order. When the Superintendent or his or her designee
finds that an user has violated or continues to violate the ordinance or a
permit or order issued thereunder, he or she may issue an order to the user
responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specific time period,
sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices or other related appurtenances have been installed and are properly
operated. Orders may also contain such other requirements as might be
reasonably necessary and appropriate to address the non-compliance, including
the installation of pretreatment technology, additional self-monitoring and
management practices.
      (3)   Cease and desist orders. When the Superintendent finds that an user
has violated or continues to violate this chapter or any permit or order issued
hereunder, the Superintendent may issue an order to cease and desist all such
violations and direct those persons in non-compliance to:
         (a)   Comply forthwith; or
         (b)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventative action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and terminating the discharge.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.143 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The Superintendent or his or her designee may issue to any user who
causes or contributes to violations of this chapter; waste water permit or
order issued hereunder, an order to appear and show cause why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be served on the user
specifying the time and place of the hearing to be held by the Superintendent
regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to be taken, the
proposed enforcement action and directing the user to show cause, before the
Superintendent, why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The
notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified
mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service
may be made on any agent or officer of the industrial user. Whether or not a
duly notified industrial user or its representative appears, immediate
enforcement action may be pursued.
   (B)   The city may, itself, conduct the hearing and take the evidence, or
designate a representative to:
      (1)   Issue, in the name of the city, notices of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in such hearing;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the city for
action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographical. The transcript, so recorded, will be
made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the usual charges thereof.
   (D)   (1)   After the city has received the evidence, it may issue an order
to the user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified
time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are property operated.
      (2)   Further orders and directives as are necessary and appropriate may
be issued.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.144 ADDITIONAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Performance bonds. The Superintendent may decline to reissue a permit
to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of this
chapter or any order or previous permit issued hereunder unless such user first
files with it a satisfactory bond, payable to the POTW, in a sum not to exceed
a value determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to achieve consistent
compliance.
   (B)   Liability insurance. The Superintendent may decline to reissue a
permit to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of
this chapter or any order or pervious permit issued hereunder, unless the
industrial user first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances
sufficient to restore or repair POTW damage caused by its discharge.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Written notice.
      (1)   Any user found to be violating any provision of this chapter or a
waste water permit or order issued hereunder, shall be served by the
Superintendent or his or her designee with written notice stating the nature of
the violation. The offender shall permanently remedy all violations upon
receipt of this notice.
      (2)   As contained in §§
52.140 through
52.144 of this chapter, the notice may be of several forms. Also as contained
in §§
52.140 through
52.144 of this chapter, penalties of various forms may be levied against users
for violations of this chapter. The penalties, if levied, shall range from
publication of violators in the local newspaper to administrative fines of at
least $1,000 per day per violation.
   (B)   Revocation of permit.
      (1)   Any user violating any of the provisions of this chapter or a waste
water permit order issued hereunder may be subject to termination of its
authority to discharge sewage into the municipal sewer system. Such termination
may be immediate if necessary for the protection of the POTW. Said user may
also have water service terminated.
      (2)   Any user who violates the following conditions of this chapter, or
applicable state or federal regulations, is subject to having his or her permit
revoked in accordance with the procedures of this chapter:
         (a)   Failure of a user to factually report the waste water
constituents and characteristics of his or her discharge;
         (b)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations
or waste water constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
         (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
   (C)   Liability. Any user violating any of the provisions of this chapter,
discharge permit or other order issued hereunder shall become liable to the
city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such
violation. This civil liability is as provided by state and federal
regulations.
   (D)   Misrepresentation and/or falsifying of documents. Any user who
knowingly and/or negligently makes any false statements, representations or
certification of any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required pursuant to this chapter or industrial user discharge permit or who
falsifies, tampers with or knowingly and/or negligently renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this chapter, shall be punished by a
fine of at least $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than 12 months or by
both.
   (E)   Destruction of POTW and legal action. No person(s) shall maliciously,
willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with
any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the POTW. Any person
(s) violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge
of disorderly conduct. It shall be noted that the Clean Water Act, being 33
U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. does not require proof of specific intent to obtain
conviction.
   (F)   Legal action. If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or
other wastes into the city’s waste water disposal system contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, federal or state pretreatment requirements or any
order of the city, the city may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or
equitable relief in the appropriate court of this jurisdiction.
   (G)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user has violated or continues to
violate the provisions of this chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, the
Superintendent, through counsel, may petition the court for the issuance of a
preliminary or permanent injunction or both (as may be appropriate) which
restrains or compels the activities on the part of the industrial user.
   (H)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any user who has significantly violated or continues to violate
this chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, may be liable to the
Superintendent for a civil penalty of not more than $100 per day, plus actual
damages incurred by the POTW per violation per day for as long as the violation
continues. Each day in which such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense. In addition to the above described penalty and damages, the
Superintendent may recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs, court
reporter’s fees and other expenses associated with the enforcement activities,
including sampling and monitoring expenses.
      (2)   The Superintendent may petition the court to impose, assess and
recover such sums. In determining amount of liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective actions by the
user, the compliance history of the user and any other factor as justice
requires.
   (I)   Criminal prosecution.
      (1)   Any user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of
this chapter or any orders or permits issued hereunder shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $100 per
violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or both.
      (2)   In the event of a second conviction, the user shall be punishable
by a fine not to exceed $10,000 per violation per day or imprisonment for not
more than three years or both.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 6-9-2014)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Toy vehicles
   
70.02   Restricted parking
   
70.03   Parking and standing
   
70.04   Loading zones
   
70.05   Use or operation of engine brake, compression brake and mechanical
exhaust devices prohibited
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 TOY VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a skateboard upon the streets, alleys,
sidewalks or public parking lots of the city, nor shall any person operate a
skateboard upon any private property, other than his or her own, without
express permission of the subject property owner.
   (B)   Any skateboard used in violation of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to confiscation as contraband, pursuant to the procedures of
this section by law enforcement officials. Any skateboard seized in accordance
with this section shall be impounded by the citing officer and shall be taken
before the court trying the person cited under this section. Upon conviction,
the court trying the case shall have the discretion of determining whether or
not the skateboard seized under the provisions of this section shall be
declared “contraband”. When such skateboard is declared contraband, the court
shall enter an order accordingly. A copy of the order shall be forwarded to the
citing officer and the contraband shall be placed in the custody of the citing
officer. The citing officer shall deliver the contraband to the Chief or other
commanding officer of his or her law enforcement agency, who may then, at his
or her discretion, destroy the contraband or sell same to the residents of the
state, at the highest market price obtainable. All proceeds arising from the
sale of contraband under this section shall become the property of the subject
law enforcement agency. A record shall be kept of the sale, including the name
of the purchaser, which records shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 1, 1991 Series, passed 3-11-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 RESTRICTED PARKING.
   There shall be no parking on the west side of State Highway #31E beginning
in front of the property known as Uncle Hank’s Restaurant and running to a
point 100 feet south of State Highway #84.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.010) (Ord. passed 12-14-1971) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 PARKING AND STANDING.
   (A)   Manner of parking where meters not installed. Any vehicle which is
parked on any public way shall be so parked that all wheels on one side shall
be near the curb, or to the edge of the pavement on any public way which does
not have a curb, unless angle parking is designated by lines on the pavement or
posting of signs.
   (B)   The Mayor and/or the Code Enforcement Officer to designate no parking
zones. The Mayor and/or the Code Enforcement Officer, upon recommendation of
the Chief of Police, are hereby authorized and directed to designate no parking
zones along the streets, avenues, alleys and other public ways of the city by
any means or devices, included but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Placing signs along the curb or edge of the street or other public
way, which signs shall read "parking";
      (2)   Placing signs along the curb or edge of the street or other public
way, which signs shall read "parking between these signs";
      (3)   Painting the curb yellow.
   (C)   Parking in no parking zones prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to park any vehicle in or along any no parking zone which has heretofore
been or hereafter may be established in accordance with Section 10-40.
   (D)   Parking on sidewalk. No person shall park any vehicle on any sidewalk
or in such manner as to wholly or partially obstruct any sidewalk within the
city.
   (E)   Parking between sidewalk and public way. No person shall park or place
any vehicle or other object between the curb of a public way and the adjacent
sidewalk or between the edge of the pavement, where the public way is not
curbed, and the adjacent sidewalk.
   (F)   Obstruction of driveways. It shall be unlawful for any person to park
any vehicle on any public way of the city in such manner as to obstruct any
driveway or entrance to any other public way.
   (G)   Double parking. No person shall double park any vehicle on any public
way, whether the vehicle is attended or unattended, except while engaged in
loading or unloading property.
   (H)   Unauthorized no parking and loading zones prohibited. It shall be
unlawful for any person to establish or attempt to establish any no parking
zone or loading zone on or along any public way of the city, except when done
by or under the direction of the Mayor and/or Code Enforcement Officer.
   (I)   Unauthorized painting of curb prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to paint any curb along any public way within the city any color
whatsoever, unless same is done by or under the direction of the Mayor and/or
Code Enforcement Officer.
   (J)   Impoundment of improperly parked vehicles. Any vehicle parked upon the
public streets of the city at a place, in a manner or for a length of time
prohibited by any of the provisions of this chapter or other ordinance of the
city is, if unoccupied, hereby declared to be an obstruction in such streets
and a public nuisance and any police officer and/or the Code Enforcement
Officer of the city is hereby authorized to cause the same to be removed and
impounded for such purposes.
   (K)   Parking near fire hydrants or in fire lanes prohibited. It shall be
unlawful for any person to leave, station, set or park any vehicle or other
object within ten feet of any fire hydrant or fire hose connection located upon
or near the rights-of-way or in any designated fire lane within the city.
   (L)   Parking in handicapped spaces limited.
      (1)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the benefit of a
handicapped person and is displaying an auto registration plate as provided in
KRS 186.042, an out-of-state handicapped registration plate, a handicapped
parking permit issued by any Veterans' Administration hospital or a special
parking permit issued to a handicapped person as prescribed in KRS 189.456, the
motor vehicle may be placed in a designated handicapped parking space.
      (2)   Except as hereinabove provided, no person shall park a vehicle in
or otherwise obstruct a space designated for handicapped parking.
   (M)   Parking restrictions for vehicles or equipment having total length of
22 feet or greater.
      (1)   No vehicle, equipment or other thing whatsoever, or any attached
combination thereof, having a total length of 22 feet or more, or a total width
of seven feet, nine inches or more, shall be parked, placed or left upon the
public ways of the city for a period of more than one hour, except when loading
or unloading thereof is actually in progress or when a permit has been issued
by the City Manager or Police Chief or their designee, which permit shall be
based upon a genuine need related to construction, remodeling, repairing,
razing and similar activities being performed upon adjacent premises; such
permit shall be limited in duration to the time such need actually exists.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation owning a vehicle, equipment or
other thing parked, placed or left upon the public ways of the city in
violation hereof shall, upon conviction, be fined $25 and each calendar day
such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. If the operator
of same is not the owner thereof, the operator shall, upon conviction, also be
subject to said penalty.
   (N)   Motor vehicles on private property.
      (1)   It shall be illegal for the operator of any vehicle to operate a
vehicle on or park the same for any time on any private property in the city,
including any private parking lot, without the consent of the owner or operator
of the private property.
      (2)   The term PRIVATE PARKING LOT shall include any lot owned or
operated by a business or industry and used as a parking lot for its employees,
customers or other persons stopping there for the purpose of doing business
with or soliciting business from the business or industry for whom the lot is
provided.
      (3)   The consent mentioned in division (N)(1) above may be express or
implied. However, no consent shall be implied on private parking lots, where
warning signs are posted, for persons who are not employed there except (a)
when the business or industry is open for business and (b) the non-employee who
is traveling on or parked in the private parking lot is on the premises for the
purpose of doing business with or soliciting business from the business or
industry enterprise.
      (4)   The sign(s) referred to in division (N)(3) above shall clearly
state that the parking lot is privately owned and that use by unauthorized
persons may subject the operators to fines per §
70.99. The sign may also warn, in the manner required by KRS 189.725, that
unauthorized vehicles may be towed away at the owner's expense.
      (5)   Operators of vehicles who violate this division (N) shall be
subject to a fine as provided in §
70.99. This penalty in no way limits the right the owner or attendant of the
privately owned parking lot otherwise must have the vehicle towed away at the
expense of the owner of the vehicle.
   (O)   Removing parking ticket; prima facie proof. It shall be unlawful for
any person to remove from one vehicle and place on another vehicle a notice of
violation and proof that such notice has been removed from one vehicle to
another shall constitute a prima facie case in any prosecution against the
owner or operator of the vehicle from which the notice has been removed.
   (P)   Fraudulent parking ticket to avoid payment of fine. It shall be
unlawful for any person to place any previously issued notice of violation or
any device resembling a notice of violation on a vehicle for the purpose of
avoiding payment of any penalty imposed in this section, and proof that such
device has been so placed or found upon a vehicle shall constitute prima facie
evidence in any prosecution hereunder against the owner or operator of the
vehicle on which it has been placed.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 4-15-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Parking citation enforcement, see KRS 82.600 et seq.
   Enactment of parking ordinances by local government, see KRS 82.605
§ 70.04 LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, a LOADING ZONE shall be a
space located on a public way reserved for the stopping of vehicles during and
for the exclusive purpose of loading or unloading passengers or materials.
   (B)   Designation. The Mayor and/or Code Enforcement Officer, upon
recommendation by the Chief of Police, is hereby authorized and directed to
provide for the establishment of such loading zones as may be necessary for the
efficient conduct of commerce within the city, and for the designation, by
appropriate signs, of the exact location and dimensions of such loading zones
and the hours during which they shall be reserved as such.
   (C)   Unauthorized use prohibited. No person shall stop, park or allow to
stand in a loading zone any vehicle for any purpose other than the unloading
and delivery or pickup and loading of materials or persons during the hours
when the provisions applicable to such zone are in effect, or for a longer
period of time than shall be necessary for such authorized purposes.
   (D)   Effective hours. Loading zones shall be reserved as such between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., prevailing time, Monday through Friday. Such
zones shall not be reserved as such after 4:00 p.m., prevailing time, or at any
time on Saturday or Sunday or any other holiday generally observed by retail
business.
   (E)   Use of loading zones by passenger vehicles. The driver of a passenger
vehicle may stop temporarily in a loading zone for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading materials or passengers. All passenger
vehicles used by any person for the purposes of commerce to deliver goods,
wares and merchandise and having need to use loading zones shall have
commercial signs on each side of such vehicle.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 4-15-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 USE OR OPERATION OF ENGINE BRAKE, COMPRESSION BRAKE AND MECHANICAL
EXHAUST DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate
or cause to be used or operated any engine brake, unmuffled compression brake
or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of
any vehicle which results in a noise disturbance, except on limited-access
highways. This prohibition shall not apply to personnel of the city who are
driving vehicles related to providing emergency services or any driver of a
vehicle who is responding to an emergency event.
   (B)   A noise disturbance means any sound which:
      (1)   Endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or animals;
      (2)   Annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities; or
      (3)   Endangers or injures personal or real property.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 4-15-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
70.02 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a violation and, upon his or
her conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not less than $25, nor more
than $100.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided on the notice of violation, the owner of any
vehicle found parked or standing in violation of §§
70.03 and
70.04 shall pay to the City Treasurer a penalty of $5, except that any person
in violation of §
70.03(M) and (N) shall pay to the City Treasurer a penalty of $15. Any person
who shall fail to pay any penalty as herein prescribed or as provided on the
notice of violation within seven days of the issuance of the notice of
violation shall be in criminal violation of §§
70.03 and
70.04, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100,
except that the fine for a violation of §
70.03(M) and (N) shall be not less than $25 nor more than $150. Each violation
for which a separate notice of violation has been issued shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 1, 1991 Series, passed 3-11-1991; Ord. 2021-2, passed 4-15-2021)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES
      
91.   SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS
      
92.   DISCRIMINATION
      
93.   [RESERVED]
      
94.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
95.   SMOKING
CHAPTER 90: RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES
Section
Lake Salem and Lake McDougal Rules and Regulations
   
90.01   Administration
   
90.02   Fishing and boating
   
90.03   Weapons and firearms
   
90.04   Swimming, tubing and the like
   
90.05   Alcoholic beverages
   
90.06   Camping
   
90.07   Open fires
   
90.08   Littering
   
90.09   Trapping
   
90.99   Penalty
LAKE SALEM AND LAKE MCDOUGAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 90.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Mayor of the city and his or her authorized designees (the County
Sheriff’s office, State Fish and Wildlife and any other sworn law enforcement
officers in the commonwealth) shall administer and enforce this subchapter.
   (B)   If the Mayor or any authorized designee finds the provisions of this
subchapter are being violated, a citation or warrant is to be issued through
District Court, including the County Attorney’s office. Said citation or
warrant shall, through District Court, cause a hearing to be scheduled.
   (C)   The city will not be responsible for any lost items or damages to any
vehicles, boats, trailers or personal belongings.
   (D)   All city ordinances apply to both Salem and McDougal Lakes, their
waterways and any adjoining properties.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 90.02 FISHING AND BOATING.
   (A)   Fishing is permitted at both Salem Lake and McDougal Lake, except for
grass carp fishing. If grass carp are caught, they must be returned to the
water unharmed.
   (B)   All state fishing and boating laws apply on both lakes.
   (C)   No combustion motors are allowed on the water at any time. This
includes, but is not limited to, outboard motors, generators or any other fuel-
powered engines. The exception to this rule is for federal, state, local
officials and emergency personnel. Only battery-powered motors and engines are
allowed on the water.
   (D)   No combustible fuels or oil-based substances are allowed on the water
at any time. Kerosene lanterns are permitted.
   (E)   No jug fishing, trout lines, minnow traps, netting or bow fishing is
allowed at any time. Frog gigging is allowed pursuant state laws.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 WEAPONS AND FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot, discharge or disengage any
weapons and/or firearms inside city limits or on any city-owned properties.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 SWIMMING, TUBING AND THE LIKE.
   No swimming, tubing, knee boarding, rafting or bathing is allowed at any
time.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   No alcoholic beverages are permitted at any time.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 CAMPING.
   (A)   Camping is permitted, but cannot exceed two consecutive nights. No
pull-behind campers, pop-up campers, fifth wheelers or recreational vehicles
are allowed.
   (B)   Camping permit is required to camp. Permit is no charge. Registration
can be obtained by online registration or in person at Hodgenville City Hall.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 2021-10, passed 12-13-2021) Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.07 OPEN FIRES.
   Open fires are not allowed.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 LITTERING.
   Littering is not allowed. State fines will be assessed if caught littering.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 TRAPPING.
   Trapping is permitted only with written permission from the Mayor or his or
her designee.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A person convicted of one or more of the listed rules and
regulations of §§
90.01 through
90.09 of this chapter shall be sentenced to pay a fine in the amount of:
         (a)   For a Class A violation: $500 per violation;
         (b)   For a Class B violation: $250 per violation; and
         (c)   For a Class C violation: $75 per violation.
      (2)   (a)   Anyone with grass carp in his or her possession, per §
90.02(A) of this chapter, will be fined $25 per fish.
         (b)   Any violation of §
90.02(C) of this chapter is a Class B violation.
         (c)   Any violation of §
90.02(D) of this chapter is a Class B violation.
         (d)   A violation of §
90.02(E) of this chapter is a Class C violation.
      (3)   A violation of §
90.03 of this chapter is a Class A violation.
      (4)   A violation of §
90.04 of this chapter is a Class C violation.
      (5)   A violation of §
90.05 of this chapter is a Class B violation.
      (6)   Any violation of §
90.06 of this chapter is a Class C violation.
      (7)   Any violation of §
90.07 of this chapter is a Class C violation.
      (8)   Any violation of §
90.08 of this chapter is a Class A violation.
      (9)   Any violation of §
90.09 of this chapter is a Class B violation.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-12-2016)
CHAPTER 91: SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Preventable false alarms
   
91.03   Notification to inspect or repair
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of any mechanical, burglary, robbery, security
or fire alarm system for the purpose of summoning police and/or fire personnel,
or which causes one or more police or fire personnel to be dispatched or
summoned to a particular location within the city, when, in fact, no crime
fire, or other emergency has, or is being attempted or committed, on the
premises.
   PREVENTABLE FALSE ALARM. The careless activation of any police security or
fire alarm by any individual, or activation of any police security or fire
alarm system proximately caused by the failure of the owner, lessee, operator
or occupant, or his or her contractor or agent, to properly design, install or
reasonably maintain the security or alarm system in a safe operating condition.
Police security or fire alarms shall not be deemed PREVENTABLE FALSE ALARMS in
violation of this chapter if it is determined by the Chief of Police, Chief of
the Fire Department, or their designee, that the alarm was caused by:
      (1)   An act of vandalism causing physical damage to the premises;
      (2)   Alarms occurring during electrical storms, tornadoes, blizzards or
other acts of God where there is evidence of damage or disruption to the alarm
system;
      (3)   Electrical power or telephone circuit disruption beyond the control
of the alarm company and/or user; or
      (4)   Any and all other acts or omissions by persons, or events beyond
the reasonable control of the owner, lessee, operator or occupant of the
premises and the security alarm system.
(Ord. 2011-9, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 91.02 PREVENTABLE FALSE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to activate, initiate, transmit or
otherwise cause, authorize or allow more than five preventable false alarms at
the same location within a six-month period.
   (A)   Notice and corrective action requirement. If the Police or Fire
Departments, through their respective designees, have probable cause to believe
that five preventable false alarms have occurred at the same location within a
six-month period, the Chief of the respective Department, or his or her
designee, shall within 48 hours of having established probable cause, notify
the property owner or other entity, user or person in charge of the alarm
system, in writing (by delivering said notice in person or by certified mail,
return receipt requested), of the nature and number of preventable false alarms
that have occurred to date, including a brief description of the date and
circumstances of each preventable false alarm, and shall further advise the
property owner, entity, user or person in control of the alarm system, that any
additional preventable false alarms after the period of correction provided in
division (B) below shall constitute a violation of this chapter for which the
offender may be subject to prosecution or civil penalty. Thereafter, a
compliance status with zero preventable alarms shall be maintained for at least
six months to avoid additional penalty.
   (B)   Duty to inspect and repair. Upon written notification from the Police
or Fire Departments, through their respective designee, of the occurrence of
five preventable false alarms within a six-month period, the property owner,
entity, user or person in control of the police or fire security alarm system
in question, shall have the alarm system inspected by a representative of the
manufacturer of the alarm system or a qualified and reputable representative of
a fire and security alarm system dealer, to determine if the false alarms are
the result of mechanical failure, malfunction, improper design, installation,
lack of proper maintenance or human error due to carelessness or lack of
training. The inspection report shall note any and all deficiencies believed to
exist in the professional opinion of the qualified inspector, and what repairs
or other corrective action the inspector believes is required to render the
alarm system safe, operational and functional in relation to the type of
property or business it was designed and intended to secure. It shall be the
responsibility of the property owner, entity, user or other person in control
of the alarm system to make the necessary repairs and/or take any and all other
remedial measures reasonably identified and required, by the qualified
inspector, and to submit a copy of the inspection report along with written
proof of the repairs and/or remedial action taken to correct any malfunctions
or deficiencies identified in the alarm system to the Police or Fire
Departments from whom the original notice was received, within 14 days of
receipt of the formal notification required in division (A) above.
   (C)   Duty to train and provide orientation to employees and occupants. Upon
written notification from the Police or Fire Departments, through their
respective designees, of the occurrence of five preventable false alarms within
a six-month period, the property owner, entity, user or person in control of
the police or fire security alarm system in question, shall provide system
operation instruction to all system operators or potential authorized users of
the premises, and shall provide written documentation of the training to the
Police or Fire Departments from whom the original notice was received, within
14 days of receipt of the formal notification required in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2011-9, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 91.03 NOTIFICATION TO INSPECT OR REPAIR.
   A false alarm shall not be deemed a “preventable false alarm” under the
prohibition in §
91.02 of this chapter if it occurs at a location for which the property owner,
entity, user or person in control of the alarm system has been formally
notified to inspect and repair any malfunctions or deficiencies in accordance,
with §
91.02 of this chapter as set forth hereinabove; provided that, the false alarm
occurs within the time period prescribed for the alarm system to be inspected
and repaired, if necessary.
(Ord. 2011-9, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be in violation of any section of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, for each offense, shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $500. As an alternative to, or in
conjunction with, the penalties set forth herein, any person found to be in
violation of this chapter may also be assessed a civil penalty not to exceed
$250, payable to the city within 20 days of the issuance of the citation. Civil
penalties not paid within the time prescribed herein may be recovered by the
city in a civil action, in the same manner provided for the collection of a
civil debt.
(Ord. 2011-9, passed 11-14-2011)
CHAPTER 92: DISCRIMINATION
Section
Discrimination Prevention
   
92.01   Policy
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Discrimination in public places
   
92.04   Discrimination in the workplace
   
92.05   Discrimination in housing
   
92.06   Enforcement
Grievance Procedures
   
92.20   Procedures adopted by reference
   
92.21   Administration
   
92.22   Amendment procedure
 
   
92.99   Penalty
DISCRIMINATION PREVENTION
§ 92.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to safeguard all individuals within the city
from discrimination because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex or
age in connection with: places of public accommodation, resort or amusement;
employment and housing; thereby to protect their interest in personal dignity
and freedom from humiliation, to make available to the city their full
productive capacities, to secure the city against strife and unrest which would
menace its democratic institutions and to preserve the public safety, health
and general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.010) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Commission on Human Rights.
   COMMISSIONER. A member of the Commission.
   DISCRIMINATION. Any direct or indirect act or practice of exclusion,
distinction, restriction, segregation, limitation, refusal, denial or any other
act or practice or differentiation or preference in the treatment of a person
or persons because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex or age.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, labor unions, joint apprenticeship
committees, partnerships, associations, corporations, legal representatives,
mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations,
trustees in bankruptcy receivers or other legal or commercial entities; the
city or any of its agencies.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.020) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976)
§ 92.03 DISCRIMINATION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   (1)   In this subchapter, PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION, RESORT OR
AMUSEMENT includes any place, store or other establishment, either licensed or
unlicensed which supplies goods or services to the general public or which is
supported directly or indirectly by government funds; except that, a private
club is not a place of public accommodation if its policies are determined by
its members and its facilities or services are available only to its members
and their bona fide guests.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, it is an unlawful
practice for a person to deny an individual the full and equal enjoyment of the
goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages and accommodations of a
place of public accommodation, resort or amusement, as defined in this division
(A), on the ground of race, color, religion, national origin, sex or age.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.030)
   (B)   It is an unlawful practice for a person, directly or indirectly, to
publish, circulate, issue, display or mail, or cause to be published,
circulated, issued, displayed or mailed, a written, printed, oral or visual
communication, notice or advertisement, which indicates that the goods,
services, facilities, privileges, advantages and accommodations of a place of
public accommodation, resort or amusement, will be refused, withheld from or
denied an individual on account of his or her race, color, religion, national
origin, sex or age, or that the patronage of, or presence at, a place of public
accommodation, resort or amusement, of an individual, on account of his or her
race, color, religion or national origin is objectionable, unwelcome,
unacceptable or undesirable.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.040)
(Ord. passed 3-9-1976) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   Employers. It is an unlawful practice for an employer:
      (1)   To fail or refuse to hire, or to discharge any individual, or
otherwise to discriminate against an individual with respect to his or her
compensation, terms, conditions or privileges of employment, because of such
individual’s race, color, religion, national origin, sex or age; and/or
      (2)   To limit, segregate or classify his or her employees in any way
which would deprive or tend to deprive an individual of employment
opportunities or otherwise adversely affect his or her status as an employee,
because of such individual’s race, color, religion, national origin, sex or
age.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.050)
   (B)   Labor organizations. It is unlawful practice for a labor organization:
      (1)   To exclude or to expel from its membership, or otherwise to
discriminate against, a member or applicant for membership because of his or
her race, color, religion, national origin, sex or age;
      (2)   To limit, segregate or classify its membership, or to classify or
fail or refuse to refer for employment an individual, in any way which would
deprive or tend to deprive an individual of employment opportunities, or would
limit such employment opportunities or otherwise adversely affect his or her
status as an employee or as an applicant for employment, because of such
individual’s race, color, religion, national origin, sex or age; and/or
      (3)   To cause or attempt to cause an employer to discriminate against an
individual in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.060)
   (C)   Advertisements. It is unlawful practice for an employer, labor
organization or employment agency to print or publish or cause to be printed or
published a notice or advertisement relating to employment by such an employer
or membership in or any classification or referral for employment by the
employment agency, indicating any preference, limitation, specification or
discrimination, based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex or age;
except that, such a notice or advertisement may indicate a preference,
limitation or specification based on religion or national origin, when religion
or national origin is a bona fide occupational qualification for employment.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.070)
   (D)   Employment exceptions. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
subchapter, it is not an unlawful practice for:
      (1)   An employer to hire and employ employees, or an employment agency
to classify or refer for employment an individual, for a labor organization to
classify its membership or to classify or refer for employment an individual,
or for an employer, labor organization or joint labor-management committee
controlling apprenticeship or other training or retraining programs to admit or
employ an individual in any such program, on the basis of his or her religion
or national origin in those certain instances where religion or national origin
is a bona fide occupational qualification reasonably necessary to the normal
operation of that particular business or enterprise;
      (2)   A religious corporation, association or society to employ an
individual on the basis of his or her religion to perform work connected with
the carrying on by such corporation, association or society of its religious
activity; and/or
      (3)   A school, college, university or other educational institution to
hire and employ employees of a particular religion if the school, college,
university or other educational institution is in whole or substantial part
owned, supported, controlled or managed by a particular religious corporation,
association or society, or if the curriculum of the school, college, university
or other educational institution is directed toward the propagation of a
particular religion and the choice of employees is calculated by such
organization to promote the religious principles for which it is established or
maintained.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.080)
   (E)   Compensation exceptions. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
subchapter, it is not an unlawful practice for an employer to apply different
standards of compensation, or different terms, conditions or privileges of
employment pursuant to a bona fide seniority or merit system, or a system which
measures earnings by quantity or quality of production or to employees who work
in different locations; provided that, such difference are not the result of an
intention to discriminate because of race, color, religion, national origin,
sex or age, nor is it an unlawful practice for an employer to give or to act
upon the results of any professionally developed ability test; provided that,
such test, its administration or action upon the results is not deigned,
intended or used to discriminate because of race, color, religion, national
origin, sex or age.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.090)
(Ord. passed 3-9-1976) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. A building, structure or part thereof which is
used or occupied, or is intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied
as the home or residence of one or more individuals.
      REAL ESTATE BROKER or REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON. An individual, whether
licensed or not, who, for a fee, commission, salary or other valuable
consideration, or who with the intention or expectation of receiving or
collecting the same, lists, sells, purchases, exchanges, rents or leases real
estate or the improvements thereon, including options, or who negotiates or
attempts to negotiate such an activity; or who advertises or holds himself or
herself out as engaged in such activities; or who negotiates or attempts to
negotiate a loan secured by mortgage or other encumbrances, upon a transfer of
real estate; or who is engaged in the business of charging an advance fee or
contracting for collection of a fee in connection with a contract whereby he or
she undertakes to promote the sale, purchase, exchange, rental or lease of real
estate through its listing in a publication issued primarily for such purpose;
or an individual employed by or acting on behalf of any of these.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes buildings, structures, real estate, land,
tenements, leaseholds, cooperatives, condominiums and hereditaments, corporeal
and incorporeal.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.100)
   (B)   Real estate agents. It is an unlawful practice for a person having the
right to sell, exchange, rent or lease any property, or for a real estate
broker, real estate salesperson or an individual employed by or acting on
behalf of any of these:
      (1)   To refuse to sell, exchange, rent or lease or otherwise deny to
withhold real property from an individual because of his or her race, color,
religion, national origin, sex or age;
      (2)   To discriminate against an individual because of his or her race,
color, religion, national origin, sex or age in the terms, conditions or
privileges of the sale, exchange, rental or lease of real property or in the
furnishings of facilities or services in connection therewith;
      (3)   To refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to purchase,
rent or lease real property from an individual because of race, color,
religion, national origin, sex or age;
      (4)   To refuse to negotiate for the sale, rental or lease of real
property to an individual because of his or her race, color, religion, national
origin, sex or age;
      (5)   To represent to an individual that real property is not available
for inspection, sale, rental or lease when, in fact, it is so available, or to
refuse to permit an individual to inspect real property because of his or her
race, color, religion, national origin, sex or age;
      (6)   To print, circulate, post or mail or cause to be printed,
circulated, posted or mailed an advertisement or sign, or to use a form of
application for the purchase, rental or lease of real property which indicates,
directly or indirectly, a limitation, specification or discrimination as to
race, color, religion, national origin, sex or age, or an intent to make such a
limitation, specification or discrimination;
      (7)   To offer, solicit, accept, use or retain a listing of real property
for sale, rental or lease with the understanding that an individual may be
discriminated against in the sale, rental or lease of that real property or in
the furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith because of his
or her race, color, religion, national origin, sex or age; and/or
      (8)   Otherwise to deny to or withhold real property from an individual
because of his or her race, color, religion, national origin, sex or age.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.110)
   (C)   Financial institutions. It is an unlawful practice for a person, bank,
banking organization, mortgage company, insurance company or other financial
institution or lender to whom application is made for financial assistance for
the purchase, lease, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair,
maintenance or improvement of real property, or an individual employed by or
acting on behalf of any of these:
      (1)   To discriminate against an individual because of the race, color,
religion, national origin, sex or age of the individual or the present or
prospective owner, tenant or occupant of that real property or of a member,
stockholder, director, officer, employee or representative of any of these, in
the granting, withholding, extending, modifying or renewing, the rates, terms,
conditions, privileges or other provisions of financial assistance or in the
extension of services in connection therewith;
      (2)   To use a form of application for financial assistance or to make or
keep a record or inquiry in connection with applications for financial
assistance which indicate directly or indirectly a limitation, specification or
discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin, sex or age or an
intent to make such a limitation, specification or discrimination; and/or
      (3)   To discriminate by refusing to give full recognition, because of
sex, to the income of each spouse or the total income and expenses of both
spouses where both spouses become or are prepared to become joint or several
obligors in real estate transactions.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.120)
   (D)   Housing exceptions. The provisions of this section do not apply:
      (1)   To the rental of a housing accommodation in a building which
contains housing accommodations for not more than two families living
independently of each other if the owner or a member of his or her family
resides in one of the housing accommodations;
      (2)   To the rental of a portion of a housing accommodation by the
occupant of the housing accommodation, or by the owner of the housing
accommodation if he or she or a member of his or her family resides therein;
and/or
      (3)   To a religious institution, or to an organization operated for
charitable or educational purposes which is operated, supervised or controlled
by a religious corporation, association or society, to the extent that the
religious corporation, association or society limits, or gives preferences in,
the sale, lease, rental, assignment or sublease of real property to individuals
of the same religion, or makes a selection of buyers, tenants, lessees,
assignees or sublessees that is calculated by such religious corporation,
association or society to promote the religious principles for which it is
established or maintained.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.130)
(Ord. passed 3-9-1976) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   In the enforcement of this subchapter, the Commission has the following
powers and duties:
   (A)   To meet and exercise its powers at any place within the city;
   (B)   To accept gifts or bequests, grants or other payments, public or
private, to help finance its activities;
   (C)   To adopt recommendations for use by the City Council in investigating
any violation of this chapter; and
   (D)   To assist the Mayor and City Council in securing qualified persons for
job opportunities.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.140) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976)
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
§ 92.20 PROCEDURES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The procedures attached to the ordinance codified herein and on file in the
office of the City Clerk- Treasurer shall be the grievance procedures for
anyone who believes he or she has been discriminated against by the city based
on handicapped status with respect to federally-funded programs.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.010) (Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 92.21 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of these procedures and related federal and state
regulations shall be the responsibility of the executive authority of the city.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.020) (Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 92.22 AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   These procedures may be amended by ordinance to comply with court directives
or additional federal and state regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.030) (Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine not exceeding $100 or imprisonment for 30 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.150) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976)
CHAPTER 93: RESERVED
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Garbage, Trash and Weeds
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Covered containers
   
94.03   Littering prohibited
   
94.04   Vehicle for hauling
   
94.05   Disposal methods; dumping prohibited
   
94.06   Frequency of removal
   
94.07   Containers; placing; specifications
   
94.08   Removal of dead animals
   
94.09   Burning prohibited
   
94.10   Grass, weeds and vegetation
   
94.11   Inspections
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dangerous and Unfit Buildings, see §§
150.15 through
150.18
   Disorderly conduct, see §
130.03
   Zoning, see
Ch. 155
GARBAGE, TRASH AND WEEDS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEBRIS. Ruins from construction, including, but not limited to, barrels,
metals, metal furniture, dirt in piles, rock, pieces of concrete, glass, brick,
building materials, abandoned appliances and inoperative automobiles, mineral
waste.
   GARBAGE. Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of foods, waste from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   REFUSE. Rejected useless matter, combustible and non-combustible trash,
including, but not limited to, paper, cartons, boxes, excelsior, tin cans,
crockery, packing, uncut grass and weeds.
   RUBBISH. Waste and rejected matter, trash, including, but not limited to,
wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture, bedding, cinders, lumber
on ground, ashes.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.010) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.02 COVERED CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the city any
garbage or other material subject to decay, other than in a tightly-covered
metal or plastic container.
   (B)   It is unlawful to cause or permit to accumulate any trash, ashes or
dust or material that can be blown away by the wind anywhere in the city, other
than in a covered container.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.020) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to deposit or permit to fall from any vehicle any garbage,
refuse, rubbish or debris, on any public street or highway in the city;
provided, this section shall not be construed to apply to the provisions of
this subchapter preparatory to having such material collected and disposed of
in the manner provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.030) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 VEHICLE FOR HAULING.
   It is unlawful for any person hauling garbage or refuse in the city to haul
or collect same in any vehicle other than a packer-type conventional garbage
truck to be approved by the City Council. The bed and sides of any vehicle used
for the transportation of garbage or refuse shall be of metal construction or
shall be lined with metal.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.040) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 DISPOSAL METHODS; DUMPING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Garbage, refuse, rubbish and debris shall be disposed of by any of the
following three methods:
      (1)   Pickup and collection by sanitation companies;
      (2)   Dumping in an approved sanitary landfill; or
      (3)   Burning in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful to dispose of garbage, refuse, rubbish and debris by
dumping same on any premises in the city, with or without the consent of the
owner of the premises. It is unlawful for the owner of any real property in the
city to dump or permit the dumping of garbage, refuse, rubbish and debris on
his or her property and, furthermore, the property owner will be responsible
for existence of same.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.050) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 FREQUENCY OF REMOVAL.
   Garbage, refuse, rubbish and debris shall be disposed of from all premises
within the city at least one time each week.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.060) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.07 CONTAINERS; PLACING; SPECIFICATIONS.
   All garbage and refuse awaiting disposal shall be placed in metal or plastic
containers equipped with a tight cover. Any container that is not a commercial
dumpster used by a sanitation company shall be equipped with handles so that it
may be carried by one human and shall have a capacity of not less than ten
gallons or more than 30 gallons.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.070) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   Dead animals and dead poultry shall be disposed of within six hours after
discovery of same by the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.080) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful to burn garbage anywhere in the city. It is unlawful to
burn refuse and rubbish anywhere in the city, except in an approved
incinerator.
   (B)   An APPROVED INCINERATOR is defined as follows.
      (1)   Any incinerator with a capacity of more than two bushels shall be
constructed to comply with the requirements of the state’s Air Pollution
Commission.
      (2)   Any incinerator with a capacity of two bushels or less shall meet
the requirements of the state standards of safety and be approved by the city’s
Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.090) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 GRASS, WEEDS AND VEGETATION.
   (A)   The owner and/or occupant of all property in the city shall cut and
trim the grass, weeds and vegetation thereon to a height of not more than six
inches at all times so long as the said property is less than two acres in
total area and so long as said property is not agricultural or woodlands.
   (B)   Whenever property is at least two acres in size or where the property
is primarily used as an agricultural use, then the grass, weeds and vegetation
thereon shall be mowed, cut or trimmed to a height commensurate with the
customary practice for said use at least two times per year.
   (C)   In the event property is predominantly woodlands and trees and woods
dominate the land and no crop or agricultural use is made of same, then this
section shall not apply.
   (D)   The notice provided for in this section shall be as provided in §
94.11 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.100) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall designate one Council member or his or her
agent to periodically check the city for violation of this subchapter; and if,
in his or her opinion, the chapter is violated, he or she shall notify the
owner or occupant of said premises of said violation. The notice shall provide
that a hearing will be held in seven days in the Police Court to determine
whether said violation constitutes a nuisance.
   (B)   Upon a finding by the Court that a nuisance exists in violation of
this subchapter, he or she may order the city to abate said nuisance by going
onto the private or public property and abating same. In that event, the owner
and occupant of said premises is responsible to the city for the abatement of
said nuisance and such costs shall constitute a lien against said property and
said lien shall run with the land. Notice of said charges and said lien shall
be sent to the owner or occupant of said premises by the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.110) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
94.01 through
94.11 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine not
to exceed $100 per day of the violation or imprisonment for a term not to
exceed punishment as provided for each offense, and a separate offense is
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. Violators may be issued a citation by the city’s Police Department
or any agency duly appointed by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.120)
      (2)   The City Clerk-Treasurer, with the assistance of the city’s Police
Department or other person or persons designated by the City Council, will
inspect the property within the city on a regular basis and notify the owner
and/or occupant of property in violation of §
94.10 of this chapter and, in the event compliance is not had within seven days
after notice, then the owner and/or occupant shall be cited into court and,
upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $100, for said
violation, plus court costs.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.100)
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 95: SMOKING
Section
   
95.01   Findings and intent
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Application to city-owned or city-operated facilities
   
95.04   Prohibition of smoking in enclosed public places
   
95.05   Prohibition of smoking in places of employment
   
95.06   Prohibition of smoking in outdoor areas and stadiums
   
95.07   Reasonable distance
   
95.08   Where smoking is not regulated
   
95.09   Declaration of establishment as non-smoking
   
95.10   Posting of signs
   
95.11   Ashtrays and spent smoking materials
   
95.12   Non-retaliation and non-waiver of rights
   
95.13   Enforcement
   
95.14   Public education
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The City Council finds that:
      (1)   According to numerous studies, tobacco smoke is a major contributor
to indoor air pollution. Breathing secondhand smoke is a cause of disease in
healthy non-smokers. These diseases include heart disease, stroke, respiratory
disease, and lung cancer. The U.S. Surgeon General determined in 2014 that
secondhand smoke is responsible for the early deaths of up to 41,000 Americans
annually. (U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The health
consequences of smoking - 50 years of progress. A report of the surgeon general
Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Center for Disease
Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and
Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2014).
      (2)   The U.S. Surgeon General has determined that at least 250 chemicals
in secondhand smoke are known to be toxic or to cause cancer. (U.S. Department
of Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences of Inventory Exposure to
Tobacco Smoke: A Report of the Surgeon. Atlanta GA: Department of Health and
Human Services, Public Health Service, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease and Prevention and Promotion,
Office on Smoking and Health; 2006).
      (3)   Secondhand smoke is particularly hazardous to the elderly,
individuals with cardiovascular disease, and individuals with impaired
respiratory function, including asthmatics and those with obstructed airway
disease. Children exposed to secondhand smoke have an increased risk of asthma,
respiratory infections, Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS), developmental
abnormalities, and cancer. (California Environmental Protection Agency (2005).
Proposed Identification of Environmental tobacco Smoke as a Toxic Air
Containment. Sacramento, CA, Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment,
California Environmental Protection Agency).
      (4)   Smoke-filled workplaces result in higher worker absenteeism due to
respiratory disease, lower productivity, higher cleaning and maintenance costs,
increased health insurance rates, and increased liability claims for disease
related to exposure to secondhand smoke. ("The high price of cigarette
smoking," Business & Health 15(8), Supplement A;6-9, August 1997).
      (5)   The Environmental Protection Agency has determined that secondhand
smoke cannot be reduced to safe levels in businesses by high rates of
ventilation. Air cleaners, which are only capable of filtering the particulate
matter and odors in smoke, do not eliminate the known toxins in secondhand
smoke. (Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)), "indoor air facts no. 5:
environmental tobacco smoke," Washington, D.C.: Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA), June 1989).
   (B)   Accordingly, the City Council adopts the foregoing as justification
for this chapter, the purpose of which is:
      (1)   To protect the public health and welfare by prohibiting smoking in
public places and places of employment;
      (2)   To guarantee the right of nonsmokers to breathe smoke-free air; and
      (3)   To recognize that the public's need to breathe smoke-free air shall
have priority over the individuals desire to smoke.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 4-23-2020)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT. A noncombustible product containing nicotine
that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, absorbed, dissolved, or
ingested by any other means.
   BUSINESS. A sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation, or
other business entity, either for-profit or not-for profit, including retail
establishments where goods or services are sold; professional corporations and
other entities where legal, medical, dental, engineering, or other professional
services are delivered; and private clubs.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profit, and a person who volunteers his or
her services for a business.
   EMPLOYER. A person, business, association, municipal corporation, or trust,
with one or more employees.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling that is closed in on
all sides by doors, walls, garage doors, roll up doors, or windows, whether
open or closed, the combination of which extend from the floor to the ceiling.
A wall includes any physical barrier, whether temporary or permanent.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. An office or institution providing care or treatment
of diseases, whether physical, mental or emotional, or other medical,
physiological, or psychological conditions, including but not limited to
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals or other clinics, including weight control
clinics, nursing homes, homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories,
and offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians
dentists, and all specialists within these professions. This definition shall
include all waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and
wards within HEALTH CARE FACILITIES.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees normally frequent during the course of employment,
including but not limited to, common work areas, auditoriums, private offices,
elevators, medical facilities, stairs, employee lounges, restrooms, classrooms,
cafeterias, hallways, and work vehicles. A private residence is not a PLACE OF
EMPLOYMENT unless it is used as a childcare, adult day care or health care
facility.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An organization, whether incorporated or not, which is the
owner, lessee, or occupant of a building or portion thereof exclusively for
club purposes at all times, which is operated solely for a recreational,
fraternal, social, patriotic, political, benevolent, or athletic purpose, but
not for pecuniary gain, and which only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to
its operation. The affairs and management of the organization are conducted by
a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the
members at an annual meeting. The organization has established by-laws and/or a
constitution to govern its activities. The organization has been granted an
exemption from the payment of federal income tax as a club under 26 U.S.C. §
501.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, including but not limited to banks, bars, educational
facilities, health care facilities, hotel and motel lobbies, laundromats,
polling places, public transportation facilities, reception areas, restaurants,
retail food production and marketing establishments, retail service
establishments, retail stores, shopping malls, sports arenas, theaters, service
lines and waiting rooms. A private club is a PUBLIC PLACE when being used for a
function to which the general public is invited. A private residence is not a
PUBLIC PLACE unless it is used as a childcare, adult day care, or health care
facility.
   RESTAURANT. An eating establishment, including but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias,
which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, or employees as well
as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the premises
for serving elsewhere. The term RESTAURANT shall include a bar area within the
RESTAURANT.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products and accessories
and in which the sale of other products is merely incidental.
   SERVICE LINE. An indoor line in which one or more persons are waiting for or
receiving service of any kind, whether or not the service involves the exchange
of money.
   SHOPPING MALL or FLEA MARKETS. An enclosed public walkway or hall area that
serves to connect retail, professional establishments, or booths.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, heating, or carrying any lighted
cigar, cigarette, pipe or any other combustible tobacco product or vapor
product.
   SPORTS ARENA. Sports pavilions, stadium, gyms, health spas, boxing arenas,
swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys, and other similar places
where members of the general public assemble to engage in physical exercise,
participate in athletic competition, or witness sports or other events.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any cigarette, cigar, snuff, smokeless tobacco product,
smoking tobacco, chewing tobacco, and any kind or form of tobacco prepared in a
manner suitable for chewing or smoking or both, or any kind or form of tobacco
that is suitable to be placed in a person's mouth.
   VAPOR PRODUCT. Any noncombustible product that employs a heating element,
battery, power source, electronic circuit, or other electronic, chemical or
mechanical means, regardless of shape or size and including the component parts
and accessories thereto, that can be used to deliver vaporized nicotine or
other substances to users inhaling from the device. VAPOR PRODUCTS include but
are not limited to any electronic pipe, electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and every
variation thereof, regardless of whether marketed as such, and any vapor
cartridge or other container of a liquid solution or other material that is
intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or other similar product or device.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 4-23-2020)
§ 95.03 APPLICATION TO CITY-OWNED OR CITY-OPERATED FACILITIES.
   Facilities including all buildings and vehicles owned or operated by the
city shall constitute public areas as defined in §
95.02 and shall be governed by this chapter. In addition to penalties
established by this chapter, a violation of this policy by a city employee on
or in city property will be cause for disciplinary measures against such
employee by supervisory personnel under applicable employee policies and
procedures.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 4-23-2020)
§ 95.04 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN ENCLOSED PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking is prohibited in all enclosed public places, as defined in §
95.02, within the city.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 4-23-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Smoking is prohibited in all enclosed places of employment.
   (B)   This prohibition on smoking shall be communicated to all existing
employees by the effective date of this chapter and to all prospective
employees upon their application for employment.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 4-23-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN OUTDOOR ARENAS AND STADIUMS.
   Smoking is prohibited in the seating areas of all outdoor arenas and
stadiums and amphitheaters.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 4-23-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 REASONABLE DISTANCE.
   Any designated outdoor smoking areas shall occur at a reasonable distance
from any entrance, exit, window or ventilation units of any enclosed area where
smoking is prohibited to ensure that tobacco smoke does not enter the area
through entrances, windows ventilation systems or any other means. In no
instance shall a designated outdoor smoking area be permitted with in 25 feet
from the entrance to any enclosed area. A greater distance may be imposed by
the property owner.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 4-23-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 WHERE SMOKING IS NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
following areas shall be exempt from the provisions of §§
95.04 and
95.05:
   (A)   Private residences except when used as a licensed childcare, adult day
care or health care facility;
   (B)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking rooms; provided, however, that not more than 20% of rooms rented to
guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated. All smoking rooms on the same
floor must be contiguous. Smoke from the designated smoking rooms shall not
infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this
chapter. The status of rooms as smoking or non-smoking may not be changed,
except to add additional non-smoking rooms;
   (C)   Retail tobacco stores, provided that smoke from these premises does
not infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of
this chapter;
   (D)   Private clubs and businesses that have no employees, provided that
smoke from these premises does not infiltrate into areas where smoking is
prohibited under the provisions of this chapter. When such clubs or businesses
are being used for functions to which the general public is invited, the
prohibitions set out in §§
95.04 and
95.05 shall apply;
   (E)   Outdoor areas of places of employment, except those covered by the
provisions of §§
95.06 and
95.07, provided that smoke from these premises does not infiltrate into areas
where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 4-23-2020)
§ 95.09 DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NON-SMOKING.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, an owner, operator,
manager, or other authorized person in control of an establishment, facility,
or outdoor areas may declare that entire establishment facility or outdoor area
as a non-smoking place regardless of its designation under this chapter. In
such areas designated as non-smoking, signs must be posted according to the
specifications listed in §
95.10, and smoking will not be allowed as if those areas were subject to the
prohibitions of §§
95.04 through
95.06.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 4-23-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.10 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   "No Smoking" signs or the international "No Smoking" symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in every area where smoking is prohibited by this chapter by the owner,
operator, manager, or other person having control of such building or other
area.
   (B)   Every area where smoking is prohibited by this chapter shall have
posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly stating that smoking is
prohibited.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 4-23-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.11 ASHTRAYS AND SPENT SMOKING MATERIALS.
   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area within which this chapter or the
owner, operator, manager, or other person having control of the area prohibits
smoking, except for ashtrays displayed for sale and not for use on the
premises. Spent smoking materials shall be properly discarded and not littered
on the grounds of any property, including the city sidewalks.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 4-23-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 NON-RETALIATION AND NON-WAIVER OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner
retaliate against any employee, applicant for employment, or customer because
such employee, applicant, or customer exercises any right to a smoke-free
environment afforded by this chapter.
   (B)   An employee who continues to work in a setting where an employer
allows smoking in violation of this chapter does not waive or otherwise
surrender any legal rights the employee may have against the employer or any
other party.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 4-23-2020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Notice of the provisions of this chapter shall be given to all
applicants for a business license in the city.
   (C)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this chapter may
initiate enforcement with the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   The Fire Department, while in an establishment performing otherwise
legal inspections, shall inspect for compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   If the Code Enforcement Officer or owner, manager, operator of an
establishment subject to this chapter observes a person violating this chapter,
he or she shall immediately direct the person in violation to stop smoking. If
the person violating this chapter does not stop smoking, the Code Enforcement
Officer, owner, manager, or operator shall ask the person to leave the
premises. If the person in violation refuses to leave, the Code Enforcement
Officer, owner, manager, or operator shall call the police. In no event may the
Code Enforcement Officer, owner, manager, or operator forcibly remove the
person violating this chapter. Compliance is achieved under this division if
the Code Enforcement Officer, owner, manager, or operator follows these steps.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the city, an
employee, or any person aggrieved by a failure to comply with this chapter,
whether by commission or omission, including violations on the part of an
owner, manager, operator, or other person(s) in control of a public place of
employment covered by this chapter, may bring legal action to enforce this
chapter either by civil action seeking injunctive relief or by criminal
complaint in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 4-23-2020)
§ 95.14 PUBLIC EDUCATION.
   The city shall seek assistance to provide continuing education programs to
explain and clarify the purposes and requirements of this regulation to
citizens affected by it, and to guide owners, operators, and managers in their
compliance with it. Such programs may include publication of a brochure for
affected businesses and individuals explaining the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 4-23-2020)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation, punishable by a fine
not exceeding $50 for the first offense and a fine not exceeding $100 for the
second offense.
   (B)   A person who owns, manages, operates, or otherwise controls a public
place or place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a violation, punishable by:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $100 for a first violation within a one-year
period.
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation within one year.
      (3)   A fine not exceeding $250 for each additional violation within one
year.
   (C)   In addition to the fines established by this section, violations of
this chapter by a person who owns, manages, operates, or otherwise controls a
public place or place of employment may result in the suspension or revocation
of any permit or license issued to the person for the premises on which the
violation occurred.
   (D)   Violation of this chapter is declared to be a public nuisance, which
may be abated by the city or its designated agents by restraining order,
preliminary, and permanent injunction, or other means provided for by law. The
city may recover the reasonable costs of any court enforcement action seeking
abatement of this nuisance.
   (E)   Each day on which a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 4-23-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSING AND TAXING REGULATIONS
      
111.   RENTAL HOUSING
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
114.   SOLICITATIONS
      
115.   YARD SALES
      
116.   VENDOR CONTROL
      
117.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS AND PUSHCART VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSING AND TAXING REGULATIONS
Section
Business Licenses
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Annual business license fee
   
110.03   Due date
   
110.04   Monetary penalties for late payment
   
110.05   Proration of the fee
   
110.06   License certificates
   
110.07   License transfer
   
110.08   Use of revenue
   
110.09   Enforcement
   
110.10   Separate licenses required
   
110.11   Liability for fee
   
110.12   Compliance with zoning regulations required
   
110.13   License revocation or suspension
   
110.14   Exceptions
Occupational Licenses
   
110.25   Definitions
   
110.26   Payment of occupational license fee; individuals
   
110.27   On whom imposed
   
110.28   Allocation of compensation subject to occupational license fee
   
110.29   Credit for business license fee
   
110.30   Return and payment of tax
   
110.31   Collection of occupational license fee at source
   
110.32   Returns of occupational license fees withheld; payment
   
110.33   Special occupations
   
110.34   Exemptions
   
110.35   Duties of City Clerk-Treasurer; enforcement powers
   
110.36   Records to be kept by employers and licensees
   
110.37   Collection of deficiencies; allowance of credit for overpayment
   
110.38   Confidentiality of returns, information and the like
   
110.39   Use of occupational license fees
   
110.40   Unpaid occupational license fees; interest and penalties
   
110.41   Period occupational license fee to remain in effect
 
   
110.99   Penalty
BUSINESS LICENSES
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.
      (1)   Includes the carrying on or exercise, for gain or economic benefit,
either directly or indirectly, of any business, trade, profession, occupation,
vocation, calling or commercial activity whatsoever, and the rendering of any
type of service in any commerce whatsoever in the city, but such term does not
include employees of a business or person licensed under this subchapter.
      (2)   The term BUSINESS shall not include the usual activities of the
boards of trade, chambers of commerce, trade associations or unions (or other
associations performing the service usually performed by trade associations or
unions), community chest funds or foundations; corporations organized and
operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
educational, or civic purposes, or for the prevention of cruelty to children or
animals; clubs or fraternal organizations operated exclusively for social,
educational or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings or income from
such units, groups or associations inures to any private shareholder or
individual; provided, however, that if any such unit, group or association
shall engage in activities other than the activities in which such units,
groups or associations usually engage, such other activities shall be included
in the term BUSINESS; provided further, that activities conducted for gain or
profit by any educational institution, hospital or any other institution
mentioned in this section are included in the term BUSINESS.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Includes each separate corporation, limited liability
company, business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
registered limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association,
joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or
other legal entity through which business is conducted.
   CITY. The City of Hodgenville, Kentucky.
   CLERK or CITY CLERK. The City Clerk of the City of Hodgenville, Kentucky, or
his or her agent, designee, or assistant.
   LICENSE YEAR. The period July 1 of one year until July 1 of the succeeding
year during which the business license is in effect.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation (domestic and foreign), trust, estate, assignee, receiver or any
other combination acting as a unit. Whenever the term PERSON is used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty in the nature of a fine or
imprisonment, the word, as applied to associations, shall mean the partners or
members thereof and as applied to corporations, the officers and directors.
   TAXPAYER. Any person liable for any business license fee under the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.02 ANNUAL BUSINESS LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and established an annual business license fee
in the amount of $50 upon all persons and business entities doing business or
conducting business in the city. No person or business entity shall conduct
business within the corporate limits of the city without having first paid the
fee and without having obtained the prescribed license therefor.
   (B)   Collection of this fee shall become effective January 1, 2020.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.03 DUE DATE.
   The business license fee required herein shall be payable to the city
annually for the period beginning January 1 of each and every year and ending
December 31 of the current year. No partial payments shall be allowed or
accepted.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.04 MONETARY PENALTIES FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   A person or business entity subject to the license fee may be subject to a
penalty equal to 10% of the tax due for each calendar month or fraction thereof
if the person or business entity fails to pay the license fee on or before the
due date prescribed for filing. The total penalty levied pursuant to this
section shall not exceed 30% of the total license fee due. In addition to the
penalties described in this section, any person or business entity shall pay,
as part of the license fee due, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple
interest on the fee shown due, but not previously paid, from the time the
license fee was due until the license fee is paid. A fraction of a month is
counted as an entire month.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.05 PRORATION OF THE FEE.
   If any person enters into any business, profession, trade, occupation,
vocation, calling or activity after the beginning of the fiscal year, he or she
may purchase a business license for the remaining period of the year. The
business license fee will be prorated for no less than $25.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   A license certificate shall be issued to each person paying a business
license fee due under this subchapter for the license year or the remaining
portion of the license year in the case of a new business. Such certificate
shall show the license year or remaining portion of the license year in the
case of a new business. Such certificate shall show the license year for which
issued, the name of the person to whom issued, and the address or location of
the place of business being licensed. If a taxpayer has more than one place of
business, a license certificate is required for each place of business.
   (B)   Each taxpayer shall display his or her license certificate in a
conspicuous place in each licensed place of business.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.07 LICENSE TRANSFER.
   Unless otherwise provided, a license issued under this subchapter may be
transferred from one person to another if the kind of business is not
materially changed and may be transferred to cover another location if a
taxpayer moves his or her place of business.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.08 USE OF REVENUE.
   All money obtained from the payment of the license fees provided for in this
subchapter shall be paid into, and become a part of, the General Fund of the
city.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Clerk is hereby charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter and is hereby empowered to prescribe, adopt,
promulgate and enforce the rules and regulations relating to any matter
pertaining to the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter. The rules and regulations promulgated by him or her shall be binding
on the businesses and taxpayers.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to collect and account for the
license fees imposed by this subchapter. He or she shall keep records showing
the amount received by him or her from each business and taxpayer and the date
of receipt.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.10 SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED.
   The license fee provided for herein shall also be required where an
individual, firm, or corporation have separate locations for conducting
business; each separate location is required to pay license fee according to
the business conducted therein.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.11 LIABILITY FOR FEE.
   Any person holding himself out by sign, advertisement, or other
representation to be engaged in any business for which a license is required
hereunder shall be considered as being actually engaged in that enterprise and
shall be liable for the fee therefor. Any local agent or local proprietor of a
non-resident owner of a business requiring a license hereunder shall be liable
for the fee levied upon such business just as if he or she were the owner
thereof.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.12 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   No license shall be issued hereunder to any business that does not comply
with or meet all requirements as stated in the zoning ordinance of the city.
Conviction of a violation of any provision contained in the zoning ordinance
shall be grounds for revocation of the license issued hereunder.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.13 LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Any license issued under this subchapter may, with notice to the holder
thereof and a hearing as hereinafter provided, may be revoked or suspended if:
   (A)   Within 12 months prior to the date on which charges are filed, there
has been a conviction of any person for any action or activity occurring in,
on, or at the premises covered by the license in violation of any provision of
this subchapter, any other ordinance of the city, or any state statute against
gambling, disorderly conduct, or any other offense. A judgment of conviction in
any court of competent jurisdiction shall be conclusive evidence of such a
violation;
   (B)   There shall occur in, on, or about the premises covered by a license
any condition which is a nuisance or is obnoxious to the morals and general
welfare of the public;
   (C)   Any person is disorderly in, on, or at the premises covered by the
license and disturbs the good order of the community, and license holder
knowingly or willfully suffers or permits any person to be disorderly in, on,
or at the licensed premises; or
   (D)   The holder of the license misrepresents any material facts as to the
kind of business applied for or any other fact necessary or proper to determine
the amount of license fee to be paid.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.14 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   Persons who work for a salary for a business and derive no other
income from commission or practice outside that business and within the city
are exempt from the business license fee imposed in this subchapter;
   (B)   Full-time elementary or secondary students are exempt from the
business license fee imposed in this subchapter. The student shall furnish to
the City Clerk a certified statement by the student's principal or designee
that the student is enrolled in full-time study;
   (C)   Yard sales, garage sales, street sales, and all other similar type
sales shall not be required to purchase a license as required herein unless
such sales are held by the same person or family or on the same premises more
than twice during the period January 1 through December 31 or if the sale
exceeds three consecutive days. In the event the sales exceeds three
consecutive days or takes place on more than two occasions during the licensure
period, then a license will be required in the amount of $25 per day.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
§ 110.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, joint venture or any other
form of unincorporated enterprise owned or engaged in by two or more persons.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, profession or undertaking or any nature
conducted for gain or profit, whether conducted by an individual, partnership,
association, corporation or any other entity; but shall not include the usual
activities of a board of trade, chamber of commerce, trade association or
union; community chest funds or foundations; corporations or associations
organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific,
literary, educational or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings,
income or receipts of the units, groups or associations inures to the benefit
of any private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Includes each separate corporation, limited liability
company, business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
registered limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association,
joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or
other legal entity through which business is conducted.
   BUSINESS RECEIPTS. The sum total of gross receipts from sales plus gross
credit or charges for work done and performed or services rendered.
   CITY. The City of Hodgenville, Kentucky.
   CLERK or CITY CLERK. The City Clerk of the City of Hodgenville, Kentucky or
his or her agent, designee or assistant.
   COMPENSATION. The amount paid to any natural person for services rendered,
in money, regardless of the form or method of payment. It includes the receipt
by an individual of the earnings of an individual business enterprise or of a
partnership.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, Kentucky, another state, territory, or foreign
country or a dependency thereof.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person engaging in or following any occupation, trade or
profession within the meaning of this section.
   EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, governmental
body or any other entity who or that employs one or more persons on the basis
of a salary, wage, commission or other compensation, regardless of whether the
employer is engaged in business.
   FIDUCIARY. A person who holds in trust, moneys or properties, to which
another has a beneficial title or interest, or who receives and controls income
for another person or persons.
   GROSS SALARIES, WAGES, COMMISSIONS, and OTHER COMPENSATIONS. The total gross
amount of all salaries, wages, commissions, bonuses, share of net partnership
receipts or withdrawals, corporate dividends paid in lieu of salaries of wages
and any and all other payments or other consideration which a person receives
from, or is entitled to, for any work done or personal service rendered in any
trade, occupation, profession or any other activity, including all deductions
whether for tax, insurance, or other. Amounts paid to traveling salesmen or
other workers as allowance or reimbursement for traveling or other expenses
incurred in the business of the employer are excluded; but to the extent of the
excess of such amounts over such expenses actually incurred and accounted for
by the employee to his or her employer, it is included in the foregoing
definition. GROSS SALARIES, WAGES, COMMISSIONS and OTHER COMPENSATION shall not
mean or include gratuities and tips customarily received by an employee from
persons other than his or her employer.
   LICENSEE. Any person required to file a return to pay a license fee under
this subchapter.
   NET PROFITS. The net income from the operation of a business or enterprise
after provision for all costs and expenses incurred in the conduct thereof and
shall be the same as reported for federal income tax purposes excluding items
exempted under this chapter, but without deduction of taxes based on income.
   NON-RESIDENT. Any individual, partnership, fiduciary, association or other
entity domiciled outside the city.
   OBLIGOR. Any person required hereunder to file a return or to pay a license
fee thereon under this subchapter.
   OCCUPATION, TRADE, PROFESSION or OTHER ACTIVITY. The doing of any kind of
work, the rendering of any kind of work, the rendering of any kind of personal
service, or the holding of any kind of position or job within the city by any
clerk, laborer, tradesman, manager, official or other employee, including any
non-resident of the city who is employed by an employer as defined in this
subchapter, where the relationship between the individual performing the
services and the person for whom such services are rendered is, as to those
services, the legal relationship of employer and employee, including also a
partner of a firm or an officer of a firm or corporation, and shall also
include and mean the holding of any kind of office or position, either by
election or appointment, by the federal, state, county, or city government or
any officer or employee thereof where the services of such official or employee
are rendered within the city.
   PAYROLL. The total wages, salaries and other personal service compensation.
   PERSON. Every natural person, partnership, fiduciary, association or
corporation. Whenever the term PERSON is used in any clause prescribing and
imposing a penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as
applied to association, shall mean the partners or members thereof and as
applied to corporations, the officers and directors.
   RESIDENT. An individual, partnership, association, corporation or other
entity domiciled or having a business situs in the city.
   SALES. Gross sales of merchandise or of services, or both, computed by
whatever method of accounting is authorized for federal income tax purposes.
   SALES WITHIN THE CITY. Sales of merchandise delivered to a customer within
the city or service performed within the city for a customer.
   YEAR. The calendar or the fiscal year employed by a business subject to the
occupational license fee imposed by this chapter if the licensee reports for
federal income tax purposes on the basis of a period other than the calendar
year. If, under any of the provisions of this chapter, a period of less than a
full year is involved, the full-year basis of computation shall be employed and
the fraction of a year allocated by employing the ratio of the number of full
months of tax liability to 12, the number of months in a year.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.26 PAYMENT OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE; INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   On and after January 1, 2020, every individual, that is, every natural
person engaged in any occupation shall pay into the City Treasury for purposes
of the general budget an occupational license fee for the privilege of
conducting the occupation in the city; which occupational license fee shall be
measured by 1% of all salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation and
net profits earned in the city for work done or services performed in the city.
   (B)   Where such salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation and net
profits are earned for work done or services performed or rendered both within
and without the city, said occupational license fees shall be measured by such
part of the salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation and net profits
as is earned as a result of work done or services performed or rendered in the
city. Such license fees shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation or net profits for work performed or services rendered within the
city limits bears to the total compensation earned.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.27 ON WHOM IMPOSED.
   The following are subject to the occupational license fee:
   (A)   Salaries, wages, commissions, fees, bonuses, or incentive payments,
received by an individual, whether directly or through an agent, for services
rendered:
      (1)   As an officer, agent or employee, or both, of a corporation
(including a corporation of the first or nonprofit class), joint stock
association or joint stock company;
      (2)   As an officer, agent or employee (as distinguished from a partner
or member) of a partnership, limited partnership or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned by one or more persons;
      (3)   As a proprietor, agent or employee of a business, trade or
profession, conducted by an individual owner;
      (4)   As an officer, agent or employee (whether elected or appointed) of
a governmental administration, agency, arm, authority, board, body, branch,
bureau, department, division, section or unit of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
or any of the political subdivisions thereof, or those of any other state or
commonwealth;
      (5)   As an officer, agent or employee (whether elected or appointed) of
a governmental administration, agency, arm, authority, board, body, branch,
bureau, department, division, section or unit of the United States government
or a corporation created and owned or controlled by the United State government
or any of its agencies, or those of any foreign country or dependency except
those enlisted or commissioned in the military service; or
      (6)   As an office, agent or employee of any other entity.
   (B)   Salaries, wages, commissions, fees, bonuses or incentive payments,
received by an individual, whether directly or indirectly through an agent, for
services rendered:
      (1)   Whether based upon hourly, daily, weekly, semi-monthly, monthly or
annual units of production or piece-work rates; and
      (2)   Whether paid by an individual, partnership, association,
corporation (including a corporation of the first or nonprofit class), a
governmental administration, agency, arm, authority, board, body, branch,
bureau, department, division, section or unit or other entity.
   (C)   Commissions or fees received by an obligor, whether directly or
indirectly through an agent, for services rendered regardless of how computed
or by whom paid (if amounts received as a drawing account exceed the
commissions earned, the fee is payable on the amounts received). If such
commissions are included in the net earnings of a trade, business or profession
regularly earned on by such individual and already subject to occupational
license fee, they shall not be separately charged;
   (D)   Fees, unless such fees are properly included as part of the net
profits of a trade, business, profession, or enterprise regularly carried on by
such said individual and such net profits are already subject to the
occupational license fee;
   (E)   Fees paid to a director or officer of a corporation are subject to
withholding as in the case of any other employee;
   (F)   Other compensation which will be treated as subject to the
occupational license fee:
      (1)   Vacation and/or holiday benefits. Payments made to employees by an
employer as vacation pay and paid holidays or any other type of payments made
under an employer's wage or salary continuation plan during periods of absence
by an employee from work are fully subject to the occupational license fee.
      (2)   Separation payments. Payments made to employees by an employer at
the time of voluntary or involuntary separation or dismissal of the employee
from the service of the employer are to be regarded as subject to the
occupational license fee.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.28 ALLOCATION OF COMPENSATION SUBJECT TO OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The net profits of businesses and professions from activities
conducted in the city shall be computed as follows: multiply the entire net
profits from all sources by an allocation percentage to be determined by
ascertaining the percentage which the gross receipts of the licensee from sales
or services rendered within the city bears to the total gross receipts from
sales of services rendered wherever made.
   (B)   The salaries, wages and other compensation from activities conducted
in the city shall be computed as follows: multiply the entire salaries, wages
and other compensation by an allocation percentage to be determined by the
percentage of time the employee performs services within the city.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.29 CREDIT FOR BUSINESS LICENSE FEE.
   Any individual or business required to purchase a business license who is
also liable for an occupational license fee based on net profits shall receive
a credit against such occupational license fee liability in the same amount as
the business license fee paid in the same year.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.30 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Every person whose earnings or net profits are subject to the
occupational license fee imposed by this chapter shall, on or before May 15 of
each year, make and file a return with the City Clerk. In the return filed,
there shall be set forth the aggregate amount of salaries, wages, bonuses,
incentive payments, commissions, fees and other compensation received or net
profits earned (as hereinbefore defined) by and during the preceding year
within the city and subject to the said license fee, together with such other
pertinent information as the City Clerk may require Form OL-S, Single Tax
District Standard Kentucky Local Occupational License Fee return which has been
developed in accordance with KRS 67.750 through 67.795 and shall be used to
file the return. The Kentucky Secretary of State is the repository for all
local ordinances, tax forms, instructions and other information, available at:
http://app.sos.ky.gov/occupationaltax.
   (B)   Where the entire earnings for the year are paid by one and the same
employer and the occupational license fee has in each instance been withheld or
deducted by the employer from the gross amount of compensation without
adjustment for expenses, it shall not be necessary for such employee to file a
return for the year unless required or requested to do so by the City Clerk.
   (C)   The person making the return shall, at the time of filing thereof, pay
to the City Clerk the amount of occupational license fee shown to be due by the
return.
   (D)   Where any portion of the occupational license fee otherwise due shall
have been deducted at the source and shall have been paid to the City Clerk by
the person making the said deduction, a credit equal to the amount so paid
shall be deducted from the amount shown to be due and only the balance, if any,
shall be due and payable at the time of the filing of said return.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.31 COLLECTION OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE AT SOURCE.
   (A)   It is the duty of each employer (as hereinbefore defined) who employs
one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission or other compensation basis
to deduct at the time of the payment of such compensation, the occupational
license fee on such salary, wage, bonus, incentive payments, commission or
other compensation due by said employer for said employee. The fee shall be
deducted by the employer from all compensation paid to employees for activities
in the city. However, the mere fact that the fee is not withheld will not
relieve the employee of the responsibility of filing a return and paying the
fee on any compensation received. A non-resident employer, either maintaining
in the city an office, business address, or doing business therein, or is
otherwise subject to service for legal process, is subject to the withholding
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Where an employee receives compensation for personal services rendered
or performed partly within and partly outside the city, the withholding agent
shall conduct and withhold that portion of the compensation which is earned on
within the city in accordance with the following rules of apportionment:
      (1)   The licensee is a traveling salesman, agent or other employee,
whose compensation on the basis of commission depends directly on the volume of
business transacted by him or her, the deducting and withholding shall attach
to the portion of the entire compensation which the volume of business
transacted by the employee within the City bears to the volume of business
transacted by him or her both within and outside the city.
      (2)   The deducting and withholding of personal service compensation of
all other employees (including officers of corporations) shall attach to the
portion of the personal service compensation of such employee which the total
number of working days employed within the city bears to the total number of
working days employed within and outside the city.
      (3)   If it is impossible to apportion the earnings as provided above
because of the peculiar nature of the services, the employee or of the unusual
basis of compensation, apportionment shall be made in accordance with the facts
and deducted and withheld accordingly. With respect with each such employee (or
group of employees in similar or identical circumstances), the employer shall
furnish the City Clerk a detailed statement of facts.
      (4)   The occasional entry into the city of an employee who performs the
duties for which he or she is employed entirely outside the city, but enters
the city for purposes of reporting, receiving instructions, accounting or
incidental to his or her duties outside the city, shall not be deemed to take
such employee out of the class of those rendering their services entirely
outside the city.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.32 RETURNS OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEES WITHHELD; PAYMENT.
   (A)   The return and payment required to be made on account of deductions by
employers from salaries, wages and other compensation of employees shall be
made quarterly for the periods ending March 31, June 30, September 30 and
December 31 of each year.
   (B)   The employer (in addition to any return required to be filed with
respect to his or her own earnings or net profits) shall, on or before the last
day of the month next following each quarterly period, make a return and pay to
the City Clerk the full amount of the occupational license fee so deducted or
withheld with respect to compensation paid to all employees who are subject to
the fee under this subchapter. No part of such fee so withheld and so reported
may be paid to the City Clerk in installments.
   (C)   The return required to be filed under this section shall be made on a
form furnished by or obtainable from the City Clerk.
   (D)   On or before the 31st day of January (unless written request for
extension is made to and granted by the City Clerk) following any calendar year
in which such deductions have been made by any employer, such employer shall
file with the City Clerk, in such form as the employer may choose, an
informational return showing all employees from whom the city occupational
license fee has been withheld, giving the name, address, and social security
number of the employee, the total amount of compensation paid during the year,
and the amount of city occupational license fee withheld from such employee.
   (E)   All business, public or government entity returns for the preceding
taxable year shall be made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the
basis of a fiscal year, which shall be made by the 15th day of the fourth month
following the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be
supplied by the city.
   (F)   Every business, public or government entity shall submit a copy of its
federal income tax return (if required to file) and all supporting statements
and schedules at the time of filing its occupational license tax return with
the city. Whenever, in the opinion of the city, it is necessary to examine the
federal income tax return of any business entity in order to audit the return,
the city may compel the business entity to produce for inspection a copy of any
statements and schedules in support thereof that have not been previously
filed. The city may also require copies of reports of adjustments made by the
federal government.
   (G)   Every business public or government entity subject to an occupational
license tax governed by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records,
render under oath statements, make returns and comply with rules as the city
from time to time may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city
may require a business, public or government entity, by notice served to the
entity, to make a return, render statements under oath or keep records, as the
city deems sufficient to determine the tax liability the business entity.
   (H)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (I)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appeals from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
   (J)   It shall be the responsibility of persons who make Federal Form 1099
miscellaneous "non-employee compensation" payments to natural persons other
than employees for services performed within the city, to maintain records of
such payments and to report such payments to the city. Said payments must be
reported on by remitting Federal Form 1099 miscellaneous by February 28 of the
year following the close of the calendar year in which the non-employee
compensation was paid. If a business, public or government entity or person is
not required to remit Federal Form 1099 miscellaneous to the IRS, including,
but not limited to, payments less than $600, they are still liable to remit the
equivalent information to the city. The information required to be reported by
said licensee shall include:
      (1)   Payer's name, address, Social Security and/or federal
identification number;
      (2)   Recipient's name and address;
      (3)   Recipient's Social Security and/or federal identification number;
      (4)   Amount of non-employee compensation paid in the calendar year; and
      (5)   Amount of non-employee compensation earned in the city for the
calendar year.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.33 SPECIAL OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Insurance agents.
      (1)   General. Individuals engaged in the sale of insurance may be either
employees or independent contractors.
         (a)   Where the individual is subject to the direct control of another
as to the manner of his or her conduct and is paid a fixed fee, he or she is
considered an employee and the amount of the occupational license fee shall be
withheld at the source.
         (b)   Where the individual is not under the direct control of another
and may conduct the sale as he or she sees fit, receiving his or her payment in
the form of commission from the sale, he or she is considered an independent
contractor and shall file his or her own return and make payment as an
independent contractor.
      (2)   Commissions subject to occupational license fee.
         (a)   In determining whether the commissions payable by reasons of the
selling of any policy by an agent resulting from work done or services
performed or rendered in the city, the test shall be the residence of the
insured at the time of the issuance of the policy, rather than the actual place
of solicitation; except where the solicitation is in the city and the agent's
established place of business is within the city, the commission is subject to
the occupational license fee regardless of the residence of the insured.
         (b)   If an agent has an office outside the city, as well as an office
within the city, the commissions on policies sold to non-residents, if handled
through the outside office, are not subject to an occupational license fee,
since under such circumstances they are not earnings or profits of an
independent Hodgenville business.
      (3)   Group insurance commissions. Commissions paid on the sale of
contracts of group insurance are subject if the group is located within the
city as a unit without regard to the residence of the writing agent.
      (4)   Bonuses and incentive payments subject to occupational license
fees. That proportionate part of all bonuses and incentive payments received by
an agent which bears the same ratio to the total amount of bonuses and
incentive payments received by him or her as the amounts of commissions
received by him or her on policies sold to residents bears to the total amount
of commissions received by him or her on all policies sold by him or her to
both residents and non-residents is subject to the occupational license fee.
      (5)   Advances and drawing accounts.
         (a)   There are two main types of advances and drawing accounts
payments:
            1.   Those which impose upon the agent a written obligation to
repay if they are not in fact earned; and
            2.   Those which (though offset by commissions as earned) cannot be
recovered at law even though the agent fails to produce enough business to
justify them.
         (b)   The first of these two types of advances and drawing account
payments is in the nature of a loan and accordingly is never subject to an
occupational license fee. All commissions or bonuses applied toward the
repaying of these types of advances and drawing accounts are subject in
accordance with the rules set forth above.
         (c)   The second type of advance and drawing account payments is
subject to an occupational license fee when received to the extent that it
exceeds compensation.
      (6)   Collection of an occupational license fee at source. It is the duty
of all insurance companies doing business in the city (or general agents in the
cases of agents whose contracts are with a general agent alone and to whom
payment is made by general agent out of his or her fund) to deduct or withhold
the amount of occupational license fee due on all compensation paid to agents
who are considered employees.
   (B)   Real estate salesmen and brokers.
      (1)   Real estate salesmen or brokers who are engaged in the business as
employees rather than independent contractors are not required to file a return
for commissions earned by them. The employer is required to deduct the fee from
the commissions earned and remit the same to the City Clerk. Nothing in this
section relieves the individual of responsibility for filing a return and
paying the occupational license fee if the employer fails to do so.
      (2)   Real estate salesmen or brokers acting as independent contractors
are subject to an occupational license fee on their commissions.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.34 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following classes of person shall be exempt to the extent herein
set forth from the provisions of the city's occupational license fee and no
occupational license fee shall be due from them.
      (1)   Domestic servants as to salaries, wages or other compensation
received from the rendering of domestic services in private homes;
      (2)   Members of the Armed Forces of the United States as to any
compensation received for active duty or active duty training and members of
the Kentucky National Guard as to any compensation earned for active duty
training, unit training assemblies, and annual field training;
      (3)   Precinct works as to any compensation received for election
training or work at election booths in state, county, and local primary,
regular, or special elections; and
      (4)   Full-time elementary or secondary students; the student shall
furnish to the city clerk a certified statement by the student's school
principal or designee that the student is enrolled in full-time study.
   (B)   The following money receipts are not deemed to be salaries, wages,
commissions and other compensation and net profits within the meaning of this
chapter and are not subject to the occupational license fee:
      (1)   Periodical payments, commonly recognized as old age or retirement
pensions, made to persons retired from service after reaching a specified age
or after a stated period of employment;
      (2)   Payments made to employees by an employer under a disability or
accident plan and unemployment compensation payments by the Commonwealth of
Kentucky or any other agency;
      (3)   Death benefits payable by an employer to the beneficiary of an
employee or to his or her estate, whether payable in a single sum or otherwise;
      (4)   Amounts received by employees under the Workmen's Compensation Act
as compensation for a disability sustained during the course of employment,
together with any amount of damages received by suit or agreement on account of
such disability;
      (5)   Interest income; and
      (6)   Income received from royalties, patents and copyrights.
   (C)   In the case of individuals whose compensation is earned for services
performed both within and without the city and who receive subject payments as
set forth in the foregoing rules and regulations, they are subject to the
occupational license fee in the same proportion that services performed within
the city bear to their total employment time.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.35 DUTIES OF CITY CLERK; ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to collect and receive all
occupational license fees imposed by this chapter and to keep records showing
the amounts received by him or her from each licensee and each withholding
employer.
   (B)   Examination of records.
      (1)   The City Clerk or any agent or employee designated in writing by
him or her is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers and records of any
employer or supposed employer or any obligor or supposed obligor in order to
determine the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was made, to
ascertain the amount of occupational license fee imposed by the terms of this
subchapter. Each employer, or supposed employer, or obligor, or suppose
obligor, is hereby directed and required to give to the City Clerk or his or
her duly authorized agent or employee the means, facilities and opportunity for
the examination and investigation that is hereby authorized.
      (2)   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to examine any person under
oath concerning any salaries, wages, commissions or other compensation or gross
receipts which were or should have been returned and to this end he or she may
compel the production of books, papers, records and the attendance of all
person before him or her, whether as parties or witnesses, whom he or she
believes to have knowledge of the salaries, wages, commissions or other
compensation or gross receipts, to the extent that any officer empowered to
administer oaths in this state is permitted to so order.
      (3)   Refusal of any such examination of employer or person subject to
the occupational license fee or presumed to be such employer or person so
subject constitutes a misdemeanor punishable under §
110.99(C).
   (C)   The City Clerk is hereby charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter and is hereby empowered to prescribe, adopt,
promulgate and enforce rules and regulations relating to any matter pertaining
to the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter
including, but not limited to, provisions for the reexamination and correction
of returns to which an overpayment or underpayment is claimed or found to have
been made. The rules and regulations promulgated by him or her shall be binding
upon the obligor and the employer.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.36 RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY EMPLOYERS AND LICENSEES.
   Employers and others subject to the occupational license fee under this
chapter are required to keep such records as will enable their filing of true
and accurate returns, whether of fees withheld at the source or of fees payable
upon earnings or net profits, or both, and such records are to be preserved to
enable the City Clerk to verify the correctness of the return filed.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.37 COLLECTION OF DEFICIENCIES; ALLOWANCE OF CREDIT FOR OVERPAYMENT.
   (A)   If, as a result of investigation conducted by the City Clerk, a return
is found to be incorrect, the City Clerk is authorized to assess and collect
any underpayment of occupational license fee withheld at source or any
underpayment of fee owing by any licensee with respect to earnings or net
profits, or both. If no return has been filed and a fee is found to be owing,
the fee actually owing may be assessed and collected with or without the
formality of obtaining a delinquent return from the employer or licensee.
   (B)   Should it be disclosed, either as a result of an investigation by the
City Clerk or through the medium of the filing of a claim or petition for
refund or credit, that an overpayment has been made, the city will refund such
overpayment.
   (C)   The employer will in every instance be required to pay the full fee
which should have been withheld, even though he or she may fail to withhold
from the employee. If too much has been withheld, the excess shall be refunded
by the employer to the employee. While the withholding agent (employer) will be
expected to maintain complete records of such adjustments with the employees,
any such adjustment made during any month need not be reflected in the
withholding return or disclosed by schedules or statements thereto attached.
However, where adjustments are made between employer and employee, disclosure
shall be made in a statement supporting the annual schedule or schedules filed
pursuant to these regulations.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.38 CONFIDENTIALITY OF RETURNS, INFORMATION AND THE LIKE.
   Any information gained by any official or agent or employee of the city as a
result of any returns, investigations, hearings or verification required or
authorized by this chapter shall be confidential, except for official purposes
and except in accordance with proper judicial order, or as otherwise provided
by law. Any person or agent divulging such information shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a Class A misdemeanor. However, the City Clerk may disclose to
the Commissioner of Revenue of the state or his or her duly authorized agent
such information and give the Commissioner the right to inspect any of the
books and records of the city if the Commissioner of Revenue of the state
grants to the City Clerk the reciprocal right to obtain information from the
files and records of the Department of Revenue of the state and maintains the
privileged character of the information so furnished to him or her.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.39 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEES.
   All money derived from fees under provisions of this subchapter shall be
paid to the City Clerk and placed to the credit of the general fund of the city
and shall be used and expended for:
   (A)   Defraying the current, general and incidental expenses of the city;
and
   (B)   For capital improvement.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.40 UNPAID OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   All occupational license fees imposed by this chapter remaining unpaid after
they become due shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum, and the
person from whom the occupational license fees are due shall further be charged
a penalty of 1% of the amount of the unpaid occupational license fee for each
month the fee remains unpaid. Any employer who fails or refuses to withhold the
occupational license fee measured by a percentage of salaries, wages, etc., or
who fails to pay the money, after withholding the same, to the City Clerk at
the time it is due as provided under the terms of this subchapter, shall be
liable for the amount due, and it shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per
annum in addition to which a penalty of 1% of the amount shall be added for
each month or fraction of a month the occupation license fees remain unpaid.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.41 PERIOD OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE TO REMAIN IN EFFECT.
   The occupational license fee of 1% shall remain in effect for a period of
not less than two years from its effective date of January 1, 2018.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil offense. Any violation of any provision of this chapter is
hereby classified as a civil offense pursuant to KRS 65.8808 and such
classification is intended, and shall be construed, to provide an additional or
supplemental means of obtaining compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
and nothing contained herein shall prohibit the enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter by any other means authorized by law.
      (1)   If a citation for a violation of any provision of this chapter is
not contested by the person charged with the violation, and the violation is
timely remedied, the civil fine to be imposed for each offense shall be $50 for
the first offense, $100 for the second offense, and $150 for the third and
thereafter offense.
      (2)   If a citation is contested and hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, or if the violation is not remedied, the maximum civil fine
which may be imposed at the discretion of the Board shall be $500 for the first
offense, $750 for the second offense, and $1,000 for the third and thereafter
offense.
      (3)   Each section violated shall be considered a separate fineable
offense. If two or more sections are violated, the fines shall be cumulative
and be enforced under the same citation. Each day a violation exists shall be
considered a separate offense without issuance of a separate citation.
      (4)   If the Code Enforcement Officer has probable cause to believe that
a license should be revoked for any of the reasons set forth in this chapter,
he may state as such in his citation, and the matter will be decided by the
Code Enforcement Board as set forth in its hearing procedures.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the civil penalties set forth in division (A)
above, a person engaging in, pursuing, or carrying on the occupation, trade or
profession mentioned in §§
110.01 through
110.14 without first obtaining a license and paying the fee herein provided
for, may be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and may be fined not less than $25
nor more than $250 for each offense. Each day the violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The city may also obtain injunctions or abatement orders to insure
compliance with this chapter or pursue administrative remedies when
appropriate, including injunctions and abatement proceedings. Within 30 days
after the penalty date, the City Council may, at its discretion, instruct the
Mayor to order the business closed.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to make any return
as to any occupational license fee required by §§
110.25 through
110.41; any employer who shall fail to withhold the occupational license fee or
pay over to the city the fee so withheld under the terms of this chapter; any
person who shall refuse to permit the City Clerk or any agent or employee
designated by him, in writing, to examine his or her books, records and papers;
any person who shall knowingly make any incomplete, false or fraudulent return;
or any person who shall attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the full
disclosure of the amount of earnings or profits in order to avoid the payment
of the whole or any part of the occupational license fee shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of Class A misdemeanor in addition to the occupational
license fee due.
      (2)   The failure of any employer or obligor to receive or procure
returns or other forms is not an excuse for failure to make any return or to
pay the occupational license fee.
      (3)   Any person who violates this division (C) shall be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $500 and/or 12 months imprisonment for each offense; a
separate offense shall be committed for each day the violation occurs. Any
person violating this chapter may also be found guilty of a civil offense. The
civil fine shall be as provided for in Ordinance 2017-09. The civil fine shall
be paid directly to the city. If the fine is not paid within 30 days from the
date of notification, then the city may recover said fine in a civil action in
a court of proper jurisdiction. The city may also obtain injunctions or
abatement orders to insure compliance with this chapter or pursue
administrative remedies when appropriate, including injunctions and abatement
proceedings.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 2020-11, passed 6-22-2020)
CHAPTER 111: RENTAL HOUSING
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Applicability
   
111.03   Registration required
   
111.04   Confidentiality
   
111.05   Enforcement
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENT COMPLEX. A rental housing unit that contains more than four
housing units in the same building or buildings managed under the same owner.
   HOUSING UNIT. Any structure or part of a structure that is used, or may be
used, by one or more persons as a home, residence, dwelling or sleeping place,
including, but not limited to, single-family residences, duplexes, multi-family
dwellings, condominium units, boarding and lodging house units, single-room
occupancy units, accessory dwelling units and any other structure or part of a
structure having similar living accommodations.
   LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit, provide or offer possession or
occupancy of a housing unit by a person who is not the legal owner of record
thereof, pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or
pursuant to a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of
land.
   MANAGING OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure
or premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
   OWNER. An individual, corporation, partnership, trustee, lessee, agent or
assignee of any equitable title in real property.
   RENTAL HOUSING UNIT. Any housing unit that is or may be available for rent,
or is occupied or rented by a tenant or subtenant in exchange for any form of
consideration.
   TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 111.02 APPLICABILITY.
   The registration provisions of §
111.03 of this chapter shall apply to all rental housing units with the
exception of:
   (A)   Housing units required to register with the city under another city
ordinance;
   (B)   Hotels, motels, inns, bed and breakfasts, or similar accommodations
that provide lodging for transient guests;
   (C)   Hospitals, hospice facilities, assisted living facilities, nursing
homes and residential care facilities meeting the definition of KRS 100.982;
   (D)   Convents, monasteries or other facilities occupied exclusively by
religious order or congregation;
   (E)   Transitional housing, homeless shelters, rehabilitation homes and
other emergency or temporary shelters;
   (F)   Housing units owned, operated or managed by a major educational or
medical institution or by a third party for the institution;
   (G)   Housing units that a governmental entity or housing authority owns,
operates or manages, or those exempted by federal, state or local law; and
   (H)   Accessory apartments located within the principal dwelling unit of the
owner of record, such as a basement apartment or apartment located on a
separate floor of a principal dwelling unit. Neither duplexes partially
occupied by the owner of record, nor separate dwelling units located on the
property of the owner of record, but not located within the principal dwelling
unit of the owner of record, are exempt from the registration provisions of §
111.03 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 111.03 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of any rental housing unit, other than those exempted under,
§
111.02 of this chapter, shall register all housing units with the city in
accordance with the provisions of this section. An owner of an apartment
complex is not required to register individual rental housing units and may
register the apartment complex as a whole.
   (B)   Registration may be made in person at City Hall and shall also be
available online through the website of the city, and shall include the
following information:
      (1)   A description of the rental housing unit by street address;
      (2)   The name, mailing and physical address(es), telephone number and
email address of the owner of the property;
      (3)   The name, mailing and physical address(es), telephone number and
email address of the responsible managing operator, if other than the owner;
      (4)   If the owner is a corporation, limited partnership, limited
liability company or similar entity, the organization shall furnish the name,
mailing and physical address(es), telephone number and email address of a
responsible individual partner or officer; and
      (5)   If the owner is a partnership or similar entity, the entity shall
furnish the name, mailing and physical address(es), telephone number and email
address of a responsible individual partner or officer.
   (C)   Whenever ownership for a rental housing unit changes, the new owner
shall register the rental housing unit within 30 days of the transfer of
ownership. Whenever the contact information changes for an owner and/or
managing operator, the registration statement shall be updated within 30 days
to provide the new contact information.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 111.04 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   All rental registration information collected by the city hereunder shall be
maintained as confidential and not disseminated or released to the public,
except as provided herein, required by law, or in the event the property is
cited for a violation of a city ordinance. If a rental registry property is
cited for a violation, rental registry information may become publicly
available by virtue of its inclusion in an enforcement proceeding before the
Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 111.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person or entity that violates the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to citation issued by any law enforcement officer and/or Code
Enforcement Officer. Citations shall be enforced through §
31.26 of this code of ordinances, or as it may be amended.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The failure to register a rental housing unit or apartment complex in
accordance with §
111.03 of this chapter shall be classified as a civil offense with a penalty of
up to $100 per rental housing unit or apartment complex. The owner or managing
operator will be sent a seven-day notice of violation with a warning of the
failure to comply with the rental registry. Failure to comply at the end of
seven days will result in a fine of up to $100 per rental housing unit or
apartment complex. Thereafter, each day of such violation(s) shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   The city shall possess a lien on the property of the owner of the
property on which the rental housing unit or apartment complex is located for
all civil penalties assessed for the violation and for all costs and fees
incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of §
111.03 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-11-2017)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.001   Title
   
112.002   Purpose
   
112.003   Definitions
   
112.004   Application
   
112.005   Adoption of state law
   
112.006   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
112.007   Enforcement
   
112.008   Changes and amendments
License Requirements; Fees
   
112.020   City licenses
   
112.021   Fees
   
112.022   Certain special licenses
   
112.023   Expiration of license; proration of fees
   
112.024   Payment of license fees; delinquency
   
112.025   Refund of fees
License Application and Maintenance
   
112.040   Advertisement
   
112.041   Form of application
   
112.042   Other conditions
   
112.043   Form of license
   
112.044   Change of information
   
112.045   Renewal of license
   
112.046   Lost or destroyed license
   
112.047   License revocation or suspension; proceedings
   
112.048   Refusal of license; guidelines for approval of quota licenses
   
112.049   Review of license; books, records and reports
   
112.050   Dormancy
Conditions, Prohibitions and Restrictions
   
112.065   Hours of sale
   
112.066   Gambling
   
112.067   Radio receiving apparatus
   
112.068   Security
   
112.069   Prizes and premiums prohibited
   
112.070   Treating prohibited
   
112.071   Drunkenness
   
112.072   Underage sales
   
112.073   Sign requirements
   
112.074   License to be displayed
   
112.075   Legal transactions for wholesalers, distributors and retail
   
112.076   Employment restrictions
   
112.077   Lavatory facilities required
   
112.078   Nudity and adult entertainment activities prohibited
   
112.079   Cause for revocation or suspension
   
112.080   Minors
   
112.081   Consumption on premises prohibited
   
112.082   Malt beverage keg registration
   
112.083   Mandatory RBS training
   
112.084   Signs and advertising
   
112.085   Patio and outdoor sales
   
112.086   Policy for festivals and events at Creekfront Park and Lincoln Square
   
112.087   Entertainment destination center
 
   
112.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Alcoholic Beverage Control Ordinance of
the City of Hodgenville, Kentucky”, (hereinafter referred to as the “city”).
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform regulations and
requirements for the licensing and regulation of alcoholic beverage manufacture
and sales pursuant to authorization under KRS Ch. 241 through 244.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.003 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of the words used throughout this chapter, unless the
context requires otherwise, shall have the same meaning as those set out in the
alcoholic beverage control laws (KRS Ch. 241 through 244) of the commonwealth
and all amendments and supplements thereto.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.004 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall be construed to apply to the manufacture and traffic in
both malt beverages and distilled spirits and wine where the context permits
such application. Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the licensee,
or the owner, proprietor, employee, agent or person in charge of any licensed
premises where alcoholic beverages are sold from the restrictions, requirements
and penalties of any other ordinance of the city or of any statutes of the
state relating to violations pertaining to alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.005 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law of the commonwealth
(KRS Ch. 241 through 244) and all amendments and supplements thereto, are
adopted so far as applicable to this chapter, except as otherwise lawfully
provided herein.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.006 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator.
      (1)   Pursuant to KRS 241.160 and KRS 241.170, there is hereby created
the office of the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator.
      (2)   The Mayor of the city appoints an employee of the city to serve as
the City Alcohol Beverage Administrator, pursuant to KRS 241.170.
      (3)   The City Alcohol Beverage Control Administrator may from time to
time appoint such additional personnel, such as Alcohol Beverage Control
Investigator(s), as is necessary to assist him or her in the administration of
this chapter.
      (4)   The City ABC Administrator shall have the same duties and functions
regarding local license applications and renewals as the state’s Department of
Alcoholic Beverage Control (“Department”) with respect to state licenses. The
City ABC Administrator shall have the same duties and functions regarding local
license penalization as the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board (“Board”) with
respect to state license penalization.
      (5)   To prevent potential conflicts of interests, no person shall be a
City ABC Administrator, an investigator or an employee of the city, under the
supervision of the City ABC Administrator, who would be disqualified to be a
member of the Board under state law set forth in KRS 241.100.
      (6)   The City ABC Administrator shall have authority delegated by the
Mayor, and as authorized under KRS Ch. 241 to 244. The City ABC Administrator,
and his or her investigators, shall have jurisdiction coextensive with the
boundaries of the city.
      (7)   The City ABC Administrator and his or her investigators shall have
available at all reasonable times for their inspection all books and records
required to be maintained by licenses under KRS 244.150 and the City ABC
Administrator shall receive copies of all reports submitted by licensee to the
Department.
      (8)   The City ABC Administrator, before entering upon his or her duties,
shall take the oath as prescribed in § 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky. The ABC Administrator and any employee delegated or
assigned to the ABC Administration may also be asked to execute a bond in such
penal sum as the city deems necessary unless said person is already covered
under the city’s active bonds as required under KRS in regards to officials and
employees of the city.
   (B)   Appeals.
      (1)   Appeals from the orders of the City ABC Administrator may be taken
to the State Board by filing a notice of appeal with the Board within 30 days
of mail or delivery of the appealed order. The notice shall contain a
certificate that a copy of the notice has been served on the County
Administrator and shall be accompanied by a copy of the decision or order being
appealed. The Board shall hear matters at issue as upon an original proceeding.
Appeals from orders of the City ABC Administrator shall be governed by KRS Ch.
13B.
      (2)   As provided by law, no appealed City ABC Administrator order or
decision, or resulting State Board order, shall become effective or final until
all Board appeals, court appeals or appeal times shall have been exhausted.
When a Board order becomes final and effective, the City ABC Administrator
shall enter such orders and take such action as required by the final order of
the Board.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018; Ord. 2022-1, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 112.007 ENFORCEMENT.
   City police officers and the city’s ABC Administrator and his or her
investigator(s) are hereby authorized to enforce this chapter in full.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.008 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   The City Council may promulgate rules and regulations, and/or amendments
thereto, as is in its discretion in order to ensure the proper implementation
of this chapter. Such will be done as according to local, state and federal
law.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
LICENSE REQUIREMENTS; FEES
§ 112.020 CITY LICENSES.
   For the privilege of causing, permitting and engaging in the actions,
business and transactions authorized thereby in regard to traffic in alcoholic
beverages in the city and pursuant to the authority of KRS 243.070, there is
hereby established a corresponding city license for each of the state licenses
described in KRS 243.070. The fee for each city license shall be as set out in
the schedule set forth below. In the event KRS 243.070 shall hereafter be
amended to authorize additional city licenses, the fee for each city license
shall be the maximum fee provided in the statute as amended:
Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per annum    $1,000
Brewer’s license, per annum                                  $500
Caterer’s license, per annum                                 $800
Distiller’s license, per annum                               $500
Extended hours supplement license, per annum                   $2,000
Limited golf course license, per annum                         $1,050
Limited restaurant license, per annum                          $1,050
Malt beverage distributor’s license, per annum               $200
Microbrewery license, per annum                                $500
Non-quota retail malt beverage package license, per annum      $200
Non-quota Type 4 retail malt beverage drink license, per annum $200
Non-quota Type 1 retail drink license, per annum               $2,000
Non-quota Type 2 retail drink license, per annum               $1,000
Non-quota Type 3 retail drink license, per annum               $300
Qualified historic site, per annum                             $1,030
Quota retail drink license, per annum                          $1,000
Quota retail package license, per annum                        $1,000
Rectifier’s license
   Class A, per annum                                       $3,000
   Class B (craft rectifier), per annum                     $960
Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum                 $0
Special temporary alcohol auction license, per event           $100
Special temporary license, per event                           $150
Wholesaler’s license, per annum                              $3,000
 
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.021 FEES.
   (A)   The fee for each of the first five supplemental bar licenses shall be
the same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no charge for
each supplemental license issued in excess of five to the same licensee at the
same premises.
   (B)   The holder of a non-quota retail malt beverage package license may
obtain a non-quota Type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of $50. The
holder of a non-quota Type 4 malt beverage drink license may obtain a non-quota
retail malt beverage package license for a fee of $50.
   (C)   (1)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075, there is hereby imposed a regulatory
license fee on the gross receipts of sale of alcoholic beverages of each
licensee who has a local license issued by the city’s ABC Administrator. The
city’s regulatory license fee shall be 5% of gross sales of all alcoholic
beverages sold by the drink. In the case of retail sales of package distilled
spirits and wine, the regulatory license fee shall be 5% of gross sales. The
regulatory license fee shall be 5% on gross retail sales of package malt
beverages.
      (2)   Payment of said regulatory fee shall be remitted to the city’s ABC
Administrator, who shall transmit all fees to the City Clerk-Treasurer, or his
or her designee, for deposit into the appropriate designated account. The city
may use said fees as permitted by law, including, but not limited to, any cost
of additional policing, regulatory or administrative expenses related to the
sale of alcoholic beverages in the city. The regulatory license fee shall be in
addition to any other fees or licenses permitted by law; except that, a credit
against a regulatory license fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount
equal to any license fee shall be based on paperwork required by the local and/
or state’s ABC Administrator, which may include, but is not limited to, tax
returns and financial statements. Said paperwork and payment will be due
according to the schedule set forth by the Mayor, or his or her designee, which
may be set at, but is not limited to, time periods consisting of a monthly or
quarterly billing by the local ABC office and/or the city.
      (3)   Failure to pay such remittance within ten days of the due date
constitutes a violation and shall subject a licensee to suspension or
revocation.
      (4)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay remittance by the due
date is 5% of the regulatory fee for each 90 days or fraction thereof. The
total late filing penalty shall not exceed 25% of the regulatory fee; provided,
however, that, in no case shall the penalty be less than $10.
      (5)   Interest at the rate of 8% per annum will apply to any late
payments.
   (D)   The city’s ABC Administrator shall transmit all fees and any other
types of payment made to the city, upon collection, to the City Clerk-
Treasurer, or his or her designee, for deposit into the appropriate designated
account.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.022 CERTAIN SPECIAL LICENSES.
   (A)   Limited restaurant license. A limited restaurant license may be issued
pursuant to KRS Ch. 243, if said restaurant meets the definition of a “limited
restaurant” as set forth in KRS 241.010(37), it is a facility where the usual
and customary business is the serving of meals to consumers, which has a bona
fide kitchen facility, which receives at least 70% of its gross income from the
sale of food, and which maintains seating capacity of either 100 or 50 persons
for dining. If the limited restaurant only maintains seating capacity for 50
persons, it shall not have an open bar and all alcoholic beverages shall be
sold in conjunction with the sale of a meal.
   (B)   Limited golf course license. A limited golf course license may be
issued pursuant to KRS Ch. 243 if an establishment meets the following
conditions: a golf course with nine, or 18, holes that meets United States Golf
Association criteria as a regulation golf course. A limited golf course license
shall authorize the license to purchase, receive, possess and sell distilled
spirits, wine and malt beverages at retail by the drink for consumption on the
licensed premises.
   (C)   Non-quota Type 1 retail drink license. A non-quota retail drink
license may be issued to, and in the, following as defined by KRS to: a
convention center or a convention hotel complex; a horse racetrack; an
automobile racetrack; a railroad system; a commercial airlines system or
charter flight system; a qualified historic site; and a state park.
   (D)   Non-quota Type 2 retail drink license. A non-quota retail drink
license may be issued pursuant to and as defined by KRS to the following:
      (1)   A hotel that contains at least 50 sleeping units, and which
maintains 50% of its gross food and drinks sales are from the sale of food;
      (2)   A restaurant that maintains 50% of its gross food and drinks sales
are from the sale of food;
      (3)   An airport;
      (4)   A riverboat;
      (5)   A distiller; or
      (6)   A business located within, or adjacent to, an entertainment
destination center licensed premises.
   (E)   Non-quota Type 3 retail drink license. A non-quota Type 3 retail drink
license may be issued pursuant to and defined by KRS to the following:
      (1)   A private club in existence for longer than one year prior to the
license application and which excludes the general public;
      (2)   A dining car; and
      (3)   A bed and breakfast.
   (F)   Non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license. A non-quota Type
4 retail malt beverage drink license may be issued pursuant to and as defined
in KRS to the following: a holder of a quota retail drink license; a holder of
a microbrewery license; a holder of a small farm winery license; and any other
business wishing to sell malt beverages by the drink for consumption on the
premises. A non-quota retail malt beverage drink license shall not be issued to
any premises from which gasoline and lubricating oil are sold, or from which
the servicing and repair of motor vehicles is conducted, unless there is
maintained in inventory for sale on the premises at retail not less than $5,000
of food, groceries and related products valued at cost.
   (G)   Special temporary license. A special temporary license may be issued
only as set forth in KRS 243.260 and 804 KAR 4:250. Such a license may be
issued to any regularly organized fair, exposition, racing association,
organized civic or community-sponsored event or charitable event as defined by
applicable law. This license shall authorize the licensee to exercise the
privileges of a quota retail drink licensee and a non-quota Type 4 malt
beverage drink licensee at designated premises for a specified and limited
time, which shall not exceed 30 days and which shall expire when the qualifying
event ends. All restrictions and prohibitions applying to a distilled spirits
and wine quota retail drink license or a non-quota retail malt beverage drink
license shall apply also to a special temporary licensee as described in this
section.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.023 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; PRORATION OF FEES.
   All city licenses, except temporary licenses, shall begin on February 1 of
any year and shall expire on January 31 of the following year as set forth in
KRS 243.090 and 804 KAR 4:390. Any licenses issued after May 1 of any year
shall be assessed a fee which is based on the pro rata portion of the remainder
of the license period; however, the cost of any license shall not be less than
one-half the amount of the full fee for an annual license of that type.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.024 PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES; DELINQUENCY.
   No licensee shall enter into or begin operating any business for which a
license is required by this chapter until the license fee has been paid in
full. The fee for renewal of any license shall be paid with the renewal
application. Failure to pay any license fee within ten days after it becomes
due shall result in a penalty equal to 10% of the license fee. Any licensee
failing to pay the fees, including penalties, within ten days after such fees
are due may be subject to revocation of the license and to other penalties as
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.025 REFUND OF FEES.
   (A)   Should any licensee under this chapter be prohibited from conducting
the licensed business for the full period covered by the license because of any
changes that may hereafter be made in the laws of the commonwealth with
reference to alcoholic beverages or other cause outside licensee’s control,
then the city shall refund to licensee the proportionate part of the license
fee for the period during which licensee is prevented from carrying on said
business if the licensee provides sufficient proof to the city’s ABC
Administrator that such period of inactivity was not the fault of the licensee
or the result of a revocation, suspension or other wrongdoing by licensee, or
an agent or employee of the licensee.
   (B)   In the event a violation of this chapter occurs that results in the
suspension or revocation of the license, the city shall not be required to
refund any portion of the license fee.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
LICENSE APPLICATION AND MAINTENANCE
§ 112.040 ADVERTISEMENT.
   (A)   Before an application for a license shall be considered, the applicant
must publish a notice of its intent to apply for an alcoholic beverage license
in The LaRue County Herald News, which is the newspaper used by the city for
legal notices under KRS 424.120.
   (B)   The notice shall include the following.
      (1)   The advertisement shall state the name and address of the applicant
and the name and address of each principal owner, partner, member, officer and
director if the applicant is a partnership, limited partnership, limited
liability company (LLC), corporation, governmental agency or other business
entity recognized by law. All advertisements shall state the location of the
proposed premises for which the licenses sought, and the type of business, and
type of license for which application is made.
      (2)   The applicant shall attach to the application an original newspaper
clipping of the advertisement that includes the newspaper header with page
number and date of publication.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.041 FORM OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved by the
city’s ABC Administrator. Applications for the issuance of new licenses and for
renewals of existing licenses shall be in writing and upon the forms provided
by the state’s ABC Board and/or the city, both of which may be amended and
supplemented from time to time by each respective agency.
   (B)   The application shall be verified and shall set forth in detail such
information concerning the applicant and the premises for which the license is
sought, as required by the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the State Department and
the city, including as follows:
      (1)   Name and address;
      (2)   Nature of interest;
      (3)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   Date of birth;
      (5)   Date of residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
Kentucky;
      (6)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license or
LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a license
under this chapter;
      (7)   Extent of stock or company ownership; and
      (8)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or LLC,
corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a license in
any other state or province.
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by a certified check, cashier
check or money order for the amount of the license fee.
   (D)   In addition to the above specified information, the applicant shall
file, with the application, responses to any additional questions as may be
posed or prescribed by the city’s ABC Administrator. The City Council has
adopted a statement of guidelines and priorities for the issuance of licenses
within this chapter to determine the extent to which applications may further,
or impede, the objectives of those guidelines. Therefore, in addition to the
information contained in the application, the city’s ABC Administrator may
require such other information as the Administrator may, in his or her
discretion, deem desirable, reasonable or appropriate to the consideration of
the application.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.042 OTHER CONDITIONS.
   In addition to any other inquiries, conditions or considerations required or
permitted by law:
   (A)   The city’s ABC Administrator shall not grant any alcoholic beverage
license or approve a renewal of a license until the applicant and his or her
place of business shall have been approved by a licensed building inspector,
the state’s Fire Marshal or the city’s Fire Chief and any and all other
inspections required by the Kentucky Building Code or other applicable law
including regulations of Land of Lincoln Planning and Zoning Commission. The
City Council shall be the final authority for any zoning changes, conditional
use permits or variances zoning regulations for any property use for the sale
of alcoholic beverages;
   (B)   All applicants shall voluntarily submit to a criminal background check
and shall sign a waiver allowing the release of this information to the city’s
ABC Administrator; and
   (C)   No license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages may be granted or
renewed to any person who is delinquent in the payment of any property taxes,
both real and personal, any other taxes due to the city, fees of any type, or
charges due to any department or division of the city at the time of issuing
the license, nor may any license be granted or renewed to sell upon any
premises or property, owned and or occupied by the licensee upon which there
are any of the above delinquent payments due and owing to the city. Further, if
a licensee becomes delinquent in the payment of any of the above at any time
during the license period, the license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages may
be subject to revocation or suspension; and
   (D)   No person, whether applicant for license, or a licensee, shall in any
manner attempt to bribe, threaten, unduly influence or intimidate the city’s
ABC Administrator, or any member of the city’s staff, or any State ABC
Administrator or staff, in any matter in which an application or proposed
application for license, or procedure for revocation or suspension is pending
before such officer. This division (D) is not intended to stifle expressions of
opinion; however, it is intended to make clear that the ABC Administrators are
public officials charged with the administration and enforcement of the law,
both local and state. Any person applying for a license, or contesting the
revocation or suspension of a license, who engages in attempted bribes,
threats, attempted undue influence or intimidation of a city or state ABC
Administrator or staff shall be disqualified from receiving or retaining a
license, in addition to other penalties as provided by law. The procedures for
appeals shall apply to disqualifications, revocations or suspensions under this
chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit monetary
settlements in lieu of revocation or suspension of license after a final order
or revocation or suspension, where the chapter and applicable statutes allow
for such payments in settlement.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.043 FORM OF LICENSE.
   All city licenses shall be in such form as may be provided by the ABC
Administrator, but at the least shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the licensee;
   (B)   The number of the license;
   (C)   The type of license;
   (D)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the licensed
premises;
   (E)   The expiration date of the license; and
   (F)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a property or
vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to law.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.044 CHANGE OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   If after a license to individuals or to a sole proprietor has been
issued, there is a change in any fact required to be set forth in the
application, a verified amendment in writing giving notice of the change shall
be filed with the city’s ABC Administrator with ten days of the change.
   (B)   Since a number of licenses issued by the city are in the name of
corporations or other business organizations, it is necessary that ownership
changes in such organizations be reported to the city’s ABC Administrator. The
city’s ABC Administrator can, therefore, investigate the person to whom the
ownership or management is transferred in order to ascertain whether that
person is precluded by statute from holding an interest in an alcoholic
beverage license.
   (C)   As used with regard to a partnership, corporation, LLC or other
business organization herein, the word “change” is construed to include any
change in managers, partners or LLC members, directors or officers of the
corporation, or change in ownership or stock whereby any person secures 10% of
the outstanding ownership or stock. Transfer of more than 10% of the total
ownership or stock shall require a new license.
   (D)   The following information shall be required concerning any new
manager, partner or LLC member, new director, officer or person securing any
interest in alcoholic beverage license:
      (1)   Name and address;
      (2)   Nature of interest;
      (3)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   Date of birth;
      (5)   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
Kentucky. If a resident, indicate when residence was established;
      (6)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license or
in any LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a
license under this act;
      (7)   Extent of stock or company ownership; and
      (8)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or in any
LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a license
in any other state or province.
   (E)   This information shall be filed with the city’s ABC Administrator as a
verified amendment of the application pursuant to which the license was
granted. Filing shall be made within ten days of any change of required
information.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.045 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every year, except in the case of the temporary licenses, each
licensee shall renew its license. All renewal licenses must be on file with the
city’s ABC Administrator no less than 30 days prior to the expiration of the
license for the preceding license period or the same shall be canceled, except
where the licensee is unable to continue in business at the same premises
licensed during the preceding license period as a result of construction, act
of God, casualty, death, the acquisition or threatened acquisition of the
premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental agency or private
organization possessing power of eminent domain, whether such acquisition is
voluntary or involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew
exiting lease; provided that, said licensee shall file a written verified
statement no less than 20 days from the expiration date of the license, setting
forth these facts and the city’s ABC Administrator is hereby authorized to
extend the time for filing of a renewal of such license for a reasonable length
of time within the sound discretion of the city’s ABC Administrator; provided,
however, such licensee shall pay a license fee from the expiration date of the
former license or licenses. Said license fee shall not by payable until
application is made for the transfer of said license to a new location.
   (B)   The renewal by the city’s ABC Administrator of the license shall not
be construed to be a waiver or acceptance of any violation which occurred prior
to such renewal and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings against the
licensee.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.046 LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSE.
   When a license shall be lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the
licensee or his or her agent or employee, a duplicate in lieu of the original
license shall be issued by the city’s ABC Administrator after the Administrator
shall have been satisfied as to the facts; provided, however, that, the
applicant for said duplicate license shall pay a fee of $10 for the duplicate
license.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.047 LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION; PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked or suspended by the city’s ABC
Administrator if:
      (1)   The licensee shall have violated any of other provisions of KRS Ch.
241 to 244, or any rule or regulation of the State Board, or of the state’s
Department of Revenue, relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and
transportation, or taxation, of alcoholic beverages or if such licensee shall
have violated or shall violate any act of Congress or any rule or regulation of
any federal board, agency or commission or this chapter now, heretofore or
hereafter in effect relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and
transportation or taxation, of intoxicating liquors, or any rules or
regulations of the city heretofore in existence or authorized by the terms of
KRS Ch. 241 to 244 to be created, irrespective of whether the licensee knew of
or permitted the violation or whether the violation was committed is
disobedience of his or her instructions;
      (2)   A license may be revoked for any of the reasons for which the
city’s ABC Administrator would have been required to refuse a license if the
facts had been known;
      (3)   In addition to the foregoing stated causes, any license may be
revoked or suspended for the following causes:
         (a)   Conviction of the licensee or the licensee’s agent, servant or
employee for selling any illegal alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises;
         (b)   Making any false, material statements in an application or
renewal application for a license or supplemental license; and
         (c)   Conviction of the licensee or any of the licensee’s agents,
servants or employees of:
            1.   Two violations of the terms and provisions of KRS Ch. 241 to
244, or any act regulating the manufacture, sale and transportation of
alcoholic beverages within two consecutive years;
            2.   Two misdemeanors directly or indirectly attributable to the
use of alcoholic beverages within two consecutive years; or
            3.   Any felony.
      (4)   Failure or default of a licensee to pay an excise tax or any part
of the tax or any penalties imposed by or under the provisions of any statutes,
ordinances or acts of Congress relative to taxation, or for a violation of any
related administrative regulations promulgated by the Department of Revenue;
      (5)   Revocation of any state license provided in KRS 243.030 and
243.040, or permit granted under any act of Congress relative to the regulation
of the manufacture, sale and transportation of alcoholic beverages;
      (6)   Setting up, conducting, operating or keeping, on the licensed
premises, any gambling game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery, gift
enterprise, handbook or facility for betting or transmitting bets on horse
races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept or engaged in, on
the licensed premises, any gambling game, device, machine, contrivance,
lottery, gift enterprise, handbook or facility. This division (A)(6) shall not
apply to:
         (a)   The sale of lottery tickets sold under the provisions of KRS Ch.
154A;
         (b)   The operation of a pari-mutuel system for betting, where
authorized by law;
         (c)   The conduct of charitable gaming by a charitable organization
licensed or permitted under KRS Ch. 238; or
         (d)   Special temporary raffles of alcoholic beverages under KRS
243.036.
      (7)   Conviction of the licensee, the licensee’s agents, servants or
employees for:
         (a)   The trafficking or possession upon the licensed premises of
controlled or illegal substances described in KRS Ch. 218A, including synthetic
drugs;
         (b)   Knowingly permitting the trafficking or possession by patrons
upon the licensed premises of controlled or illegal substances described in KRS
Ch. 218A, including synthetic drugs; or
         (c)   Knowingly receiving stolen property upon the licensed premises.
      (8)   Failure to comply with the terms of the City Administrator.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Upon the verified complaint of any person, or on the
initiative of any law enforcement officer, or of the city’s ABC Administrator,
the city’s ABC Administrator may institute proceedings to revoke or suspend any
license granted under this chapter. A license may be revoked or suspended only
after the licensee shall have been given written notice, by certified or
registered mail, of the proposed revocation, including notice of the reasons
for such proposed action. The licensee shall be given opportunity to be heard
in opposition to the proposed revocation or suspension. The notice of proposed
action shall advise the licensee of the date, time and place of the hearing.
Notice shall be sufficient if mailed to the licensee at the address shown in
the last application for a license or in the last statement supplemental to or
in amendment of the application, whether or not the mailing is receipted for or
claimed.
         (b)   The specific procedures to be followed in hearings on actions
for revocation or suspension shall provide constitutional due process rights to
the city’s ABC license holder.
         (c)   A decision of the city’s ABC Administrator revoking or
suspending a license may be appealed to Board as provided in KRS 241.200 and
KRS 243.550.
         (d)   Within three days after any order of revocation or suspension of
a license becomes final, notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee
and to the owner of the licensed premises. A notice mailed to the licensee and
to the owner of the licensed premises at the address shown in the last
application for a license or in the last statement supplemental to the
application shall be deemed sufficient compliance with this section. The
licensee shall at once surrender his or her license to the city’s ABC
Administrator. If the revoked or suspended license is not forthwith surrendered
by the licensee, the Chief of Police, at the request of the city’s ABC
Administrator, shall immediately cause one of his or her officers to take
physical possession of the license and return it to the city’s ABC
Administrator.
         (e)   When a license has been revoked or suspended, the former
licensee may, with prior approval of the city’s ABC Administrator, dispose of
and transfer his or her stock of alcoholic beverages to an appropriate entity.
         (f)   Appeal from the decision of the city’s ABC Administrator
revoking or suspending a license shall be to the State Board. The timely filing
of an appeal shall stay further proceedings for revocation.
         (g)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the city’s
ABC Administrator, and the decision is not appealed, the licensee shall suspend
all operations authorized under his or her license upon finality and
effectiveness of the order. Upon finality of any final order of the state Board
sustaining or ordering revocation or suspension on appeal, the licensee shall
at once suspend all operations authorized under this license.
      (2)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or
assigned either as to licensee or location, except with prior approval of the
city’s ABC Administrator and not until a payment of $100 shall be made to the
city’s ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.048 REFUSAL OF LICENSE; GUIDELINES FOR APPROVAL OF QUOTA LICENSES.
   (A)   The city’s ABC Administrator may refuse to issue a license for any of
the following reasons:
      (1)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a license and for suspension
or revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for state
licenses according to KRS 243.450, 243.490 and 243.500, as well as violation of
any city ordinance regarding alcohol beverage licensing, sales or the
administration thereof;
      (2)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of license
would be authorized under local, state or federal law; or
      (3)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his or
her application.
   (B)   An applicant who has been refused a license by the city’s ABC
Administrator may appeal the refusal to the State Board, pursuant to KRS
241.200 and KRS 243.550.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.049 REVIEW OF LICENSE; BOOKS, RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Applicants to whom a license is issued pursuant to this chapter shall
provide periodic information demonstrating compliance with the conditions of
any license, such as, but not limited to, the continuing requirement that a
minimum percentage of the applicant’s business income is earned from the sale
of food. This documentation shall be provided on a schedule to be coordinated
with the applicant’s quarterly regulatory fee filings. The city shall provide
the form schedule to the licensee. The licensee’s acceptance of a license to
manufacture or traffic in alcoholic beverages shall constitute consent to the
filing of the quarterly report. In the case of caterer filing, the quarterly
report shall identity each catered event by type of event, date and address of
the event, and shall provide a per event breakdown of sales and the ratio of
food sales to alcohol sales during the reporting period. This requirement for
filing of reports notwithstanding, the city may at any time come upon the
premises of any licensee and examine the books and records to determine whether
the licensee is in compliance with all parts of this chapter. In the event the
conditions of any license requirement are not met during any particular
quarter, the city’s ABC Administrator shall have discretion in determining
whether revocation is appropriate or whether the licensee may be allowed a
reasonable period of time to reach compliance. If a good faith effort is
demonstrated by the licensee, the city’s ABC Administrator may apply an
accounting period of at least one year in determining whether or not the food
sale percentage requirement has been met.
   (B)   (1)   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain, upon
the licensed premises, adequate books and records of all transactions involved
in the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the ABC Board.
      (2)   Such books and records shall be available at all reasonable times
for inspection by the city’s ABC Administrator and such city employees who may
assist the city’s ABC Administrator in his or her review.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.050 DORMANCY.
   (A)   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business
authorized by such a license or else the license will be declared dormant and
become null and void after 90 days. Such is the intent of this section.
Realizing that a licensee, like other business, may have his or her business
interrupted by situations not under his or her control, various exceptions to
the dormancy rule have been included in this section.
   (B)   Any license under which no business is transacted during a period of
90 days shall be deemed inactive and, unless the conditions set forth in
division (C) below are proved to the satisfaction of the City ABC
Administrator, the license shall be surrendered to the city’s ABC
Administrator. If the license is not voluntarily surrendered, it shall be
revoked by the city’s ABC Administrator.
   (C)   The provisions of division (B) above shall not apply to any licensee
who is unable to continue in business at the premises for which a license is
issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, the acquisition of
the premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental agency under
power of eminent domain, whether acquisition is voluntary or involuntary, or
loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing lease. Prior to the
expiration of 90 days of inactivity, such licensee shall furnish to the city’s
ABC Administrator a verified statement setting forth the fact that the licensee
is unable to continue in business, for any of the specific reasons set forth
herein, and the city’s ABC Administrator may grant an extension of the dormancy
with the license continuing to remain in effect during the license period or
until same is transferred to another premises, notwithstanding the fact that no
business is transacted during said period; provided, however, no such license
shall be considered valid unless business is conducted there under within 12
months from the date of notice to the city’s ABC Administrator. Such extension
may not extend beyond the renewal date, but may be for such times as the city’s
ABC Administrator deems appropriate in exercise of his or her sound discretion.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 112.065 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   A licensee for distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages shall be
permitted to sell or dispense distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m. (midnight) Monday through
Saturday and on Sunday between the hours of 12:00 p.m. (noon) and 12:00 a.m.
(midnight); provided that, the appropriate licenses have been obtained from
both the city’s and the state’s ABC Board.
   (B)   A licensee may sell or dispense distilled spirits, wine and/or malt
beverages on New Year’s Eve until 1:00 a.m. on January 1, regardless of the day
of the week on which New Year’s Eve occurs; provided that, the appropriate
licenses have been obtained from both the city’s and the state’s ABC Board.
   (C)   No deliveries of alcoholic beverages in the city shall be made before
6:00 a.m. or after 12:00 p.m. (midnight), Monday through Saturday.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.066 GAMBLING.
   No gambling or game of chance unless otherwise authorized by the
commonwealth shall be permitted in any form on such licensed premises. Dice,
slot machines, quarter pushers, prize redemption machines with programmable
payouts, or any device of chance is prohibited and shall not be kept on such
premises.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.067 RADIO RECEIVING APPARATUS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee licensed under this chapter to
have, or maintain, any radio receiving apparatus on such premises which is
intentionally adjusted so as to receive police messages broadcast from any law
enforcement agency in the city as it is now, or may hereafter be operated.
   (B)   In addition to other penalties provided for the violation of this
section, the Chief of Police or the city’s ABC Administrator, or his or her
designated investigator, shall have the authority to confiscate any and all
such radio receiving apparatus.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.068 SECURITY.
   (A)   The licensee shall be responsible for maintaining security on his or
her premises including providing adequate outside lighting to permit customers
to utilize the parking area and to promote the safety, health and welfare of
the general public utilizing the licensed premises.
   (B)   Security standards are further necessary to discourage unlawful
activity in and around the licensed premises.
   (C)   No licensee shall permit customers, agents, owners or employees to be
within or about the premises including parking facilities for more than one
hour past normal closing time.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.069 PRIZES AND PREMIUMS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee to give away or offer to give away
anything tangible of value as a premium or prize, or for any other purpose in
direct connection with the sale of malt beverages unless permitted by KRS
244.500.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.070 TREATING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the licensee under this chapter to give away any
alcoholic beverage to a consumer in any quantity for free or for less than for
less than paid or current wholesale cost, unless the licensee holds a sampling
license or its license type permits limited free samples (i.e., small farm
winery, microbrewery, brewer’s), or a bona fide “close out” sale approved by
the State Administrators.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.071 DRUNKENNESS.
   The licensee shall not sell, give or deliver any alcoholic beverages to any
person who appears to a reasonable person to be actually or apparently under
the influence of alcoholic beverages, controlled substances, other intoxicating
substances or any of these substances in combination, to the degree that the
person may endanger any person or property, or unreasonably annoy persons in
the vicinity.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.072 UNDERAGE SALES.
   The licensee shall not sell, give or deliver any alcoholic beverages to any
person who is under 21 years of age, or permit same.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.073 SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Per state law, the licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place
a sign at least eight inches by 11 inches in 30-point or larger type font which
states as follows:
 
Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) are subject to a fine of up to One
Hundred Dollars ($100.00) if they:
(1) Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages.
(2) Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to purchase
alcoholic beverages.
(3) Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic
beverages.
 
 
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.074 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements set forth in KRS 243.895, the licensee,
before commencing any business for which a license has been issued, shall post
and display at all times in a conspicuous place in the room or principal room
where the business is carried on so that all persons visiting the place may
readily see the license. The licensee shall not at any time post the license on
premises other than the licensed premises or upon premises where traffic in
alcoholic beverages is being carried on by any person other than tire license,
or knowingly deface, destroy or alter the license in any respect.
   (B)   The licensee shall post in a prominent place easily seen by patrons a
printed sign at least eight inches by 11 inches with gender-neutral language
supplied by the state’s Cabinet for Health and Family Services, which shall
warn that drinking alcoholic beverages prior to conception or during pregnancy
can cause birth defects.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.075 LEGAL TRANSACTIONS FOR WHOLESALERS, DISTRIBUTORS AND RETAIL.
   No wholesaler or distributor shall sell any alcoholic beverages to any
person in the city for any consideration, except under cash terms of the
wholesaler or distributor at or before the time of delivery. A wholesaler is
also permitted to extend credit for 30 days to a retailer for the purchase of
distilled spirits and wine.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.076 EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   No licensee shall knowingly employ in connection with his or her business
any person who:
   (A)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two years unless
permitted by KRS 244.090(2);
   (B)   Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of intoxicating liquors within the last two
years unless permitted by KRS 244.090(2);
   (C)   Is under the age of 18 years who will be serving alcoholic beverages
or who will be having any contact whatsoever with the sale of alcohol as
defined under state statute, unless said person is exempt or permitted by KRS
241.010 or KRS 244.090; or
   (D)   Within two years prior to the date of his or her employment, has had
any city license under this chapter revoked for cause.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018; Ord. 2022-06, passed 7-11-2022) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.077 LAVATORY FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   All retail beer and retail drink licenses shall be required to provide
indoor or outdoor lavatory facilities for their customers where such beverages
are consumes on the premises.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.078 NUDITY AND ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall offer or permit nudity, adult entertainment activities,
including nude or nearly nude dancing, adult motion picture, television, slide
or stage shows, cabarets or sexual entertainment centers on any licensed
premises. No licensee shall permit explicit sexual activity, whether actual or
simulated, upon any licensed premises. No licensee shall sponsor or permit wet
t-shirt or wet clothing contests, lingerie fashion shows, mud wrestling,
“jello” wrestling or similar activities, nor shall a licensee allow dancing
with touching for compensation (including, but not limited to, wages, tips or
gratuities), or any other service, display or contest requiring physical
contact between patrons and/or patrons and employees on any licensed premises.
No licensee shall sponsor, offer or permit drinking contests, all-you-can-drink
specials or free drinks on any licensed premises in the city.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.079 CAUSE FOR REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Violation of this subchapter and any other section shall subject the
licensee to penalties provided in this chapter and shall be cause for
revocation or suspension of city licenses.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 112.080 MINORS.
   (A)   Except as specifically authorized under KRS Ch. 241 to 244, no person
under the age of 21 may possess alcoholic beverages or enter onto any licensed
premises for the purpose of acquiring alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   As provided in KRS 244.085, no person under the age of 21, except in
the company of a parent or guardian, may enter any premises licensed for the
package sale of alcoholic beverages. No person under the age of 21, may enter
any premises licensed for drink sales of alcoholic beverages unless permitted
by KRS 244.085(5). For purposes of this prohibition, PREMISES specifically
encompasses the entire lot upon which a licensed establishment is situated,
including any drive-up window. The prohibition contained in this division (B)
shall not apply to premises where the usual and customary business of the
establishment is a gas station, convenience store, grocery store, drugstore and
other business types listed in KRS 244.085 and by the State Board in 804 KAR 5:
070.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly permit, aid, assist, induce, cause or
otherwise encourage any minor to be in possession of, use or consume alcoholic
beverages. All licenses, as set out in this chapter, shall require proof of age
of all persons attempting to purchase or consume alcoholic beverages on the
licensee’s premises.
   (D)   No person being the owner or occupant or otherwise in possession or
control of any property located within the city shall knowingly allow any minor
to remain on such property while in possession of, using or consuming alcoholic
beverages.
   (E)   It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this section if the
person charged, upon discovery of said minor individuals, manifests a proper
effort to enlist the aid of and cooperate with law enforcement personnel in
stopping the minor individuals’ possession, consumption or use of alcoholic
beverages or that the minor individuals’ possession of alcoholic beverages was
exempted by KRS 244.090.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.081 CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Consumption at package store prohibited.
      (1)   No licensee of a package store, whether trafficking in distilled
spirits, wine or malt beverages, shall permit consumption of alcoholic
beverages on the premises unless it also holds the appropriate drink license.
The licensee shall post a prominent notice on the premises stating that
consumption of alcoholic beverages on premises is prohibited.
      (2)   This restriction regarding on premises consumption shall not
prohibit sampling as allowed for microbreweries and wineries under the
provisions of KRS Ch. 243, or where sampling is permitted for a retail
distilled spirits and wine licensee under the provisions of KRS 244.050, or
beer tastings as permitted in 804 KAR 11:030.
   (B)   Habitual congregating.
      (1)   Definitions. In addition to the definitions contained in KRS Ch.
241 to 244, as used in this subchapter, the following terms are defined as
follows.
         HABITUAL. Consistent, that is, by frequent practice or use, but not
necessarily constant or exclusive.
         PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE. A retail establishment selling distilled
spirits, wine and malt beverages in package containers pursuant to licenses
issued for those purposes.
         PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any activity that endangers or interferes with the
general use and enjoyment of neighboring property, passers-by or the health,
safety and welfare of the public.
         VACANT PROPERTY. A vacant lot on which no building or other structure
exists or property on which any structure is unoccupied or unused, or which
otherwise reflects abandonment by the owner or person with the right of
occupancy.
      (2)   Licensed premises. No person or entity operating a package liquor
store, whether trafficking in distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages,
including retail package beer licensees, shall knowingly allow or permit
habitual congregating of persons on the unenclosed portion of the licensed
premises so as to constitute a public nuisance.
      (3)   Vacant property. No person or entity being the owner or otherwise
in possession or control of any vacant property shall knowingly allow or permit
habitual congregating of persons on the unenclosed portion of such property so
as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (C)   Sign. It shall be a defense to any prosecution under §
112.084 of this chapter, if a licensed vendor or property owner shall permit
the city of post and maintain a legible, painted or printed sign in at least
two separate prominent places in such area, in letters of not less than three
inches in height, stating that congregating of persons in prohibited and that
violators shall be prosecuted for trespass pursuant to KRS 511.080.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.082 MALT BEVERAGE KEG REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Definition. As used in this section, KEG is defined as a container
designed and capable of holding six or more gallons of malt beverage.
   (B)   Malt beverage keg identification tag. All retail licensees (herein
after referred to as “licensee”) operating within the city who sell malt
beverages in kegs for consumption off the premises of the licensee shall attach
a numbered identification tag or other device as provided by the city to each
keg at the time of sale and shall require the purchaser to complete and sign a
keg registration form for the keg stating the following:
      (1)   The purchaser is of legal age to purchase, possess and use the malt
beverage;
      (2)   The purchaser is not purchasing the keg for resale and will not
allow any person under the age of 21 to consume the malt beverage;
      (3)   The purchaser will not remove, obliterate or allow to be removed or
obliterated the Identification tag;
      (4)   The purchaser will state the property address where the keg will be
consumed and physically located; and
      (5)   The purchaser is aware of his or her duty to maintain a copy of the
keg registration form visible and readily accessible from the location of the
keg.
   (C)   Keg registration.
      (1)   The licensee shall obtain the name, address and telephone number of
the purchaser and shall require the purchaser to produce a valid driver’s
license number and, if that is not available, to produce at least one other
valid form of identification.
      (2)   The licensee shall retain copies of the keg registration forms for
a period of one year and shall make the keg registration form available for
inspection by state and local alcoholic beverage control officers and other
enforcement officers.
      (3)   The keg registration form shall be forwarded to the city within
five working days in all situations when the keg is not returned within a time
period specified by the seller or is returned with the identification tag
removed or obliterated.
      (4)   The city is authorized to develop appropriate rules and regulations
and to develop and make available forms for the identification tags and keg
registration forms.
      (5)   All licensees that sell or offer for sale kegs shall post on the
licensed premises a notice provided by the city concerning the provisions of
this section.
   (D)   Unlawful sales. It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer
for sale kegs without the identification tags attached and the keg registration
form completed. It shall also be unlawful for any person to remove or to
obliterate the identification tag or to fail to have the declaration form
visible and readily accessible from the location of the keg. The penalties for
violation of this section shall be the penalties as set out in this chapter. In
addition, licensees violating this section shall be subject to appropriate
alcoholic beverage control administrative remedies.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.083 MANDATORY RBS TRAINING.
   (A)   All persons employed in the selling and/or serving of alcoholic
beverages shall participate in and complete a responsible beverage serving
(“RBS”) program acceptable to the city’s ABC Administrator.
   (B)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above
shall complete that training within 30 days of the date on which the person
first becomes subject to the training requirement. When a new business is
licensed to serve alcoholic beverages, all employees must be trained prior to
the opening of the business.
   (C)   Each licensee shall be responsible for compliance with the training
requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the city’s ABC Administrator
a record or file on each employee that shall contain the pertinent training
information. Each premises licensed hereunder must at all times when alcoholic
beverages are being served have at least one person currently certified in
responsible beverage service training on duty as described herein.
   (D)   All persons completing the training required by this section shall be
re-certified not less than once every three years thereafter.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.084 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   (A)   All signage shall be in compliance with any and all other existing
rules, regulations and ordinances of the city, including, but not limited to,
the Planning and Zoning Ordinance as currently enacted, and/or as may be
amended in the future.
   (B)   No flashing lights shall be used to illuminate the exterior of any
premises licensed under this chapter.
   (C)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with KRS 244.130 and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (D)   No licensee shall publish or display advertising that is false or
misleading, nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that implies
that consumption of alcoholic beverages is fashionable or the accepted course
of behavior, or advertising that contains any statement, picture or
illustration implying that the consumption of alcoholic beverages enhances
athletic prowess, whether or not any known athlete is depicted or referred to,
nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that encourages
intoxication by referring to the intoxicating effects of alcohol (or the use of
terms such as “high test”, “high proof or “extra strong”) or depicting
activities that tend to encourage excessive consumption.
   (E)   No licensee shall erect or allow to be erected any banner that
displays any particular brand of alcoholic beverage on the outside of the
building or on the property.
   (F)   Any off-premises signage advertising the sale of alcoholic beverages
is prohibited. It shall be unlawful to attach signage advertising alcoholic
beverages to the exterior of the building or the exterior premises of the
business. This prohibition shall include the use of outdoor umbrellas or other
outdoor or patio fixtures that feature the name or logo of an alcoholic
beverage or manufacturer of alcoholic beverages.
   (G)   Signage which refers directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages
will be limited to one sign not over two square feet that must be displayed
from the inside of the window or interior of the business. No additional signs,
banners, posters or other type of displaying advertising which refers either
directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages shall be displayed on, nor shall
it be visible from the exterior of any premises licensed for the sale of
alcoholic beverages; except that, reference to such may be included in the name
of the business. This restriction shall not prevent any licensee from placing
in the windows of the licensed premises business cards not larger than two and
one-half inches in size, setting forth the price at which the licensee offers
alcoholic beverages for sale.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to distribute
or cause to be distributed any handbills, circulars or cards as a medium of
advertising alcoholic beverages.
   (I)   No licensee shall advertise alcoholic beverages on any municipally
owned property or at any municipally sponsored event.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.085 PATIO AND OUTDOOR SALES.
   (A)   Patio and outdoor sales regulations.
      (1)   Patio and outdoor sales of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted
only on premises licensed for sales of alcoholic beverages by the drink.
      (2)   No licensee shall offer alcoholic beverages for sale in a patio or
outdoor area of the licensee’s premises, except in a clearly defined patio or
outdoor area that is enclosed by a fence or other screening, not less than four
feet in height. All outdoor areas and screening shall be subject to the
approval of the city’s ABC Administrator. An exception to this restriction may
be granted for seasonal sidewalk cafés, upon application to and authorization
from the ABC City Administrator. The permission to operate a sidewalk café
shall be governed by the provisions of this section and shall be subject to the
regulation of local zoning authorities as well as codes enforcement and public
safety officers.
      (3)   No licensee shall offer patio or outdoor sales of alcoholic
beverages unless the patio or outdoor area and fencing or screening area shall
have been approved in advance by the ABC Administrator.
      (4)   Unless exempted by the following provisions of this chapter, and by
permission of the city’s ABC Administrator, patio areas must comply with the
screening requirements of this chapter. Sidewalk café seating areas must comply
with this chapter and with local zoning laws and other public safety
requirements noted in this chapter, or in other local ordinances, statutes or
regulations.
   (B)   Exceptions to screening requirements for outdoor sales and service of
alcoholic beverages; specifically, permitted sidewalk cafés in the city’s
Downtown Business Area.
      (1)   Licensees in the Downtown Business District/Area may request an
exception from the outdoor screening of patio provision in order to permit
seasonal sidewalk cafés that serve food and alcoholic beverages as an adjunct
to the primary and adjacent licensed premises. In the case of permitted
sidewalk cafés, they shall be deemed part of the licensed premises.
      (2)   Any food establishment which operates a restaurant and is licensed
under this chapter and the provisions of the state’s ABC Code, may, upon
application to the local ABC Administrator, ask permission to expand the
operation of that restaurant onto a part, and only that part, of the public
sidewalk which immediately adjoins the licensed premises (hereinafter referred
to as “sidewalk café”). Licensees who do not serve food shall not be eligible
to apply for a sidewalk café permit
   (C)   Conditions for sidewalk café permit. The issuance of a permit shall be
subject to the following conditions and restrictions; provided, however, that,
the ABC Administrator may without adverse hearing procedures impose additional
reasonable restrictions or withdraw approval upon the operation of any sidewalk
café where necessary in the judgment of the said Administrator, to protect the
public health, safety or welfare, or to prevent a nuisance from developing or
continuing.
      (1)   No sidewalk café shall be permitted in any portion of the public
sidewalk where normal pedestrian traffic flow is obstructed. A minimum
clearance width of 36 inches must be maintained on the public sidewalk at all
times. The sidewalk café shall not be permitted in any manner to obstruct the
entrance/exit to the restaurant.
      (2)   No tables, chairs or any other furnishings, except plant tubs,
shall be placed in the area used for the sidewalk café during any period when
the sidewalk café is not open and being operated. They shall be removed at the
end of each business day at the hour specified in the permit. Umbrellas,
tables, chairs and other portable appurtenances shall be confined to the area
shown on the approved permit. While such café is in operation, all tables and
chairs shall be kept in a clean, sanitary condition.
      (3)   The use of a portion of the public sidewalk as a sidewalk café
shall not be an exclusive use. All public improvements, including, but not
limited to, trees, light poles, traffic signals, pull boxes or manholes, water
meters or any public-initiated maintenance procedures, shall take precedence
over said use of the public sidewalk at all times.
      (4)   The licensee shall, in addition to all other requirements of law,
take reasonable steps to ensure that alcoholic beverages are consumed only by
patrons of the establishment who are of age, and not by passers-by or persons
who are not of age or who are obviously or apparently intoxicated.
      (5)   No disposable cups or drinking vessels may be used and the licensee
shall not permit any alcoholic beverages to be taken off premises by patrons,
customers or guests.
      (6)   No amplified sound shall be used within a sidewalk café. At no time
shall any music originating from any part of the premises create a nuisance.
      (7)   Dancing shall not be permitted or allowed in the sidewalk café.
      (8)   The licensee must at all times comply with all federal, state and
local laws regarding the sale, service and consumption of alcohol and the
operation of the premises.
      (9)   The permit for sidewalk café may not be assigned or transferred.
   (D)   Other requirements applicable to sidewalk cafés. No sidewalk café
permit shall be effective unless the licensee has filed with the city’s ABC
Administrator evidence of insurance, insuring the licensee against liability
imposed by law arising out of the ownership, maintenance or operation of such
sidewalk café, in an amount to be established by the City Attorney and the
city’s Safety Coordinator. The city shall be named an additional insured in the
policy required. Such insurance policy shall further provide expressly that it
may not be canceled, except upon ten days’ written notice (or more) filed with
the city’s ABC Administrator and the City Attorney.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.086 POLICY FOR FESTIVALS AND EVENTS AT CREEKFRONT PARK AND LINCOLN
SQUARE.
   (A)   Conditions, restrictions and regulations. In addition to the
requirements set forth in KRS 243.260 and 804 KAR 4:251, anyone operating with
a special temporary license as found in §
112.022(G) of this chapter shall also adhere to the following:
      (1)   The event for which the special temporary license is obtained must
be a civic or community event.
      (2)   All proper state and local licenses and permits must be obtained by
the entity or individual holding the special temporary license.
      (3)   Entities or individuals holding the special temporary license must
maintain liability insurance and sign waiver of liability and indemnification.
      (4)   Entities or individuals holding the special temporary license must
provide proof that those who sell and serve alcohol have received proper
training and are age appropriate.
      (5)   Alcohol must be sold in non-breakable containers, colored or clear
disposable plastic cups approved by the ABC Administrator or aluminum bottles/
cans. Glass bottles are not allowed in the designated area.
      (6)   Proper signs clearly showing the designated area for alcohol
consumption must be posted.
      (7)   Businesses with existing ABC licenses and temporary licenses must
receive written approval from the city to utilize the designated area.
      (8)   ID checked wristbands are required at all events.
      (9)   No alcohol shall be allowed in areas designated as "kids zones".
   EXHIBIT A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c4b5d4a584cac4e23e317d7c479a18f9ac54ec80/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1035.png]
 
   EXHIBIT B
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c4b5d4a584cac4e23e317d7c479a18f9ac54ec80/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1037.png]
 
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 112.087 ENTERTAINMENT DESTINATION CENTER.
   (A)   The City of Hodgenville is hereby establishing an entertainment
destination center in order to aid economic growth in tourism in the city. The
geographical boundaries of the entertainment destination center are all of the
area that lies within and adjacent Exhibit A in this section.
   (B)   The city shall apply for an entertainment destination center license.
Businesses located within the entertainment destination center that sell
alcoholic beverages shall hold the necessary alcoholic beverage license or
licenses for its premises. Licensees within or adjacent to the entertainment
destination center may sell alcoholic beverages from one or more non-permanent
locations within any common area within the entertainment destination center if
the licensee holds a supplemental bar license for each non-permanent location
and the licensee holds written permission for these sales by the city. Written
permission will be granted by the Mayor and the City ABC Administrator after a
determination that the requirements listed in 804 KAR 4:370 have been met. If
permission is denied by the Mayor and/or City ABC Administrator for sale in a
common area, the licensee may file an appeal of the decision to the City
Council who will determine at its next meeting following the appeal whether to
uphold or overturn the decision of the Mayor and/or City ABC Administrator.
   (C)   Patrons may leave the premises of businesses that sell alcoholic
beverages with alcoholic beverage drinks and consume those drinks at other
licensed premises or any entertainment destination center common area if the
city possesses the common area, provides adequate security for the common area,
ensures that the public streets are controlled in a manner that ensures public
safety and pedestrian protection from vehicular traffic, and has granted
written permission for the conduct. Patrons are prohibited from taking
alcoholic beverages outside the physical boundaries of the entertainment
destination center.
   (D)   Any drinks that are removed from the premises shall be in a cup
approved by the City ABC Administrator.
   (E)   Pursuant to the City of Hodgenville's smoke-free policy, the
entertainment destination center will be a smoke-free zone.
   (F)   The city’s entertainment destination center will be in operation on
Monday through Saturday from 10:00 a.m. EST to 10:00 p.m. EST.
   EXHIBIT A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c4b5d4a584cac4e23e317d7c479a18f9ac54ec80/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1039.png]
 
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 9-16-2022; Ord. 2023-05, passed 5-16-2023)
§ 112.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any criminal prosecution instituted in the county’s
District Court against an alleged violator, the city’s ABC Administrator may
assess civil fines of between $100 and $1,000 per violation in lieu of
suspension as authorized in KRS 243.480, each day of each violation is a
separate offence for ongoing violations. Payment of all fines shall be remitted
to the city’s ABC Administrator, who shall then transmit the fines to the City
Clerk-Treasurer for deposit in the appropriate designated account.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter, for which no other penalty is hereby provided, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, and subject to prosecution in the county’s court system, as
follows: for the first offense, be fined not less than $100, nor more than
$200, nor more than $500, or imprisoned for not more than six months, or both.
The penalties provided for in this division (B) shall be in addition to the
revocation or suspension of the offender’s license. If the offender is a
corporation, LLC, joint stock company, association or other business
organization, or a fiduciary, the principal officer or officers responsible for
the violation may be imprisoned.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-29-2018)
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License fee or tax
   
113.03   Exceptions
   
113.04   Fee or tax imposed when
   
113.05   Annual written breakdown required
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INSURANCE COMPANY. Any company authorized to transact insurance business in
the state in accordance with KRS Ch. 304. INSURANCE COMPANY shall also include
a surplus lines broker licensed in accordance with KRS Ch. 304, Subtitle 10.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A city, county, charter county, consolidated local
government, urban- county government or unified local government that, by this
chapter, imposes a license fee or tax upon insurance premium receipts.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-16-2016)
§ 113.02 LICENSE FEE OR TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee or tax
for the privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the city.
   (B)   The license fee or tax imposed upon an insurance company with respect
to life insurance policies shall be 10% and based upon the first year’s
premiums only. The license fee or tax shall be applied to the amount of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter upon the lives of
persons residing within the city.
   (C)   Except as provided in §
113.03 of this chapter, the license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance
company with respect to any insurance policy which is not a life insurance
policy shall be 10% of the premiums actually collected within each calendar
quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies on risks located within the
city. The license fee or tax shall apply only to those classes of business
which such insurance company is authorized to transact, less all premiums
returned to policyholders.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-16-2016)
§ 113.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   No license fee or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall apply to the
following:
   (A)   Policies of group health insurance provided for state employees under
KRS 18A.225;
   (B)   Policies of group health insurance provided for city employees;
   (C)   Health insurance policies issued to individuals, including policies
issued through Kentucky Access;
   (D)   Worker’s compensation insurance;
   (E)   Annuities;
   (F)   Federal flood insurance;
   (G)   Municipal bonds, leases or other debt instruments issued by or on
behalf of the city unless the bonds, leases or other debt instruments are
issued for profit or on behalf of for-profit or private organizations;
   (H)   Policies or high deductible health plans as defined in 26 U.S.C. § 223
(c)(2), commonly referred to as Health Savings Accounts;
   (I)   Policies of insurance, insured or reinsured by the Federal Crop
Insurance Corporation, 7 C.F.R. § 400.352(b)(2);
   (J)   Policies insuring or naming the state or one of its agencies or
political subdivisions as an insured and surety bonds where the state or one of
its agencies or political subdivisions is the obligee. For the purposes of the
city premium tax payments, school districts are considered agencies of the
state and policies insuring school districts and bonds with school districts as
the obligee are exempt from local, government premium taxes;
   (K)   Policies issued to public service companies which pay ad valorem
taxes;
   (L)   Entities issued a certificate of authority to do business in Kentucky
only as a health maintenance organization pursuant to KRS 304.38-060;
   (M)   Entities issued a certificate of authority to do business in Kentucky
as a captive insurer pursuant to KRS 304.49-010; or
   (N)   Domestic life insurance companies electing to be taxed under the
provisions of KRS 136.320.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-16-2016)
§ 113.04 FEE OR TAX IMPOSED WHEN.
   All license fees or taxes imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than
30 days after the end of each calendar quarter. The payment shall be submitted
to the city, together with Form LGT-141 (or a substantially similar form
prepared by the city) on or before the due date. Any license fee or tax not
paid on or before the due date shall bear interest from the due date until paid
at the interest rate established annually by the Department of Revenue for
unpaid or underpaid taxes. This interest shall be paid to the city together
with the license fee or tax that is due. In addition, the insurance company
shall pay to the city a penalty in the amount of 10% on a license fee or tax
not paid within 30 days after the due date.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-16-2016)
§ 113.05 ANNUAL WRITTEN BREAKDOWN REQUIRED.
   In accordance with KRS 91A.080(8), each insurance company subject to the
license fee or tax imposed by this chapter shall annually, by March 31, furnish
the city a written breakdown of all collections in the preceding calendar year
for the following categories of insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-16-2016)
CHAPTER 114: SOLICITATIONS
Section
Solicitation in Crosswalks, Highways, Intersections or Roadways
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Criteria for permit application and approval
   
114.03   Unauthorized activities
 
   
114.99   Penalty
SOLICITATION IN CROSSWALKS, HIGHWAYS,
INTERSECTIONS OR ROADWAYS
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection within the connections of
the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the highway measured
from the curbs or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of the traversable
roadway; or
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   HIGHWAY. Any public road, street, avenue, alley or boulevard, bridge,
viaduct or trestle and the approaches to them.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways, which join one another, but not necessarily continue, at
approximately right angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon
different highways joining at any other angle may come into conflict; or
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
intersection. The junction of a private alley with a public street or highway
shall not constitute an INTERSECTION.
   PERMIT. A form that upon completion provides the requested date, time and
place of solicitation and documents compliance with those other requirements
set forth in §
114.02 of this chapter. A PERMIT is not valid until it is marked “APPROVED” and
is signed by the City Clerk-Treasurer and Chief of Police or his or her
designatee. Solicitation may not legally occur in the city without an approved
permit. The PERMIT shall be in the possession of the organization at the site
of the solicitation on the specified date. Solicitation may only occur on the
dates, hours and locations approved by the city.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, trustee or corporation. A PERSON does
not have to reside in the city limits for the purpose of this subchapter.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate ROADWAYS, the term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall
refer to any roadway separately, but to all such roadways collectively.
   SOLICITATION. The act of a person standing at or traveling on or near a
crosswalk, highway, intersection or roadway and taking, or attempting to take,
money contributions, or making a sale of, or taking orders for the sale of, any
personal property for future delivery or for services. This definition also
includes a person standing in the median, crosswalk, highway, intersection or
roadway for the purpose of advertising a sale or services.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 114.02 CRITERIA FOR PERMIT APPLICATION AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Permits shall be issued only to charitable organizations with an
association to the county.
   (B)   All persons, organizations, partnerships and the like desiring to
solicit on roadways within the corporate limits of the city shall complete a
permit application form in City Hall. The permit application shall provide the
following information:
      (1)   Name and address of responsible person who will meet all
requirements and be responsible for persons soliciting and money collected;
      (2)   Organization represented and acknowledgment by applicant that it is
a bona fide charitable organization and that the funds collected will be used
only for the purposes stated;
      (3)   The objective for the funds;
      (4)   Names of all participants;
      (5)   Identification that will be provided on site of solicitation;
      (6)   Assurance that all participants in the roadblock will be provided
with orange or other approved traffic safety vests. At any time a participant
in the roadblock solicitation fails to properly wear a safety vest, the City
Police shall order the activity stopped immediately. All participants must sign
a waiver that if injured on city property that the city will not in any way be
responsible for their injuries, that all risk of injury is on the participant.
An approved waiver is attached to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit A;
      (7)   Location, dates and hours of the solicitation event;
      (8)   Application must be approved 14 days prior to the activity;
      (9)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a calendar that schedules
solicitation activities in the city. Said calendar shall be maintained to allow
no more than one solicitation activity per organization per calendar month.
Solicitation events may be scheduled for any month in a calendar year. Said
calendar is to run January 1 to December 31 of each year. Dates for
solicitation shall be granted on a first request basis; and
      (10)   It shall be the obligation of all organizations soliciting on a
public roadway within the city limits to place a sign on site to identify the
organization and to have available a receipt to all individuals making a
contribution.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 8-13-2012)
§ 114.03 UNAUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Solicitors are prohibited from crossing lanes of traffic or darting
between vehicles at all times.
   (B)   All solicitors must be at least 18 years of age.
   (C)   All children under the age of 18 are prohibited from accompanying
solicitors.
   (D)   Solicitors shall not make physical contact with the motor vehicles.
   (E)   Solicitors shall not verbally solicit from vehicle occupants.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 8-13-2012) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §§
114.01 through
114.03 of this chapter shall be a violation for which the penalty is a minimum
fine of $50 up to a maximum fine of $250. Non-compliance with any section of §§
114.01 through
114.03 of this chapter shall be cause for the city police to revoke the permit
and the permittee has an immediate appeal to the City Council regarding the
revocation. Any application for a permit denied by the City Clerk-Treasurer and
Chief of Police may be immediately appealed to the City Council. The city has
the right to seek immediate judicial remedies for continued violations of §§
114.01 through
114.03 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 8-13-2012)
CHAPTER 115: YARD SALES
Section
   
115.01   Definition
   
115.02   Restrictions on sales
   
115.03   Placement of merchandise
   
115.04   Enforcement
§ 115.01 DEFINITION.
   A YARD SALE is the sale or presentation for sale from a residence or
residential property. This includes the use of the residence, yard, driveway,
garage or other attached buildings of tangible personal property, incidental
sales of one or two items of personal property shall not be included when such
sale is not a part of the general sale of a number of items of personal
property. TAG SALE, SPECIAL SALE or other designations shall be covered by this
chapter no matter what words are used.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 115.02 RESTRICTIONS ON SALES.
   (A)   A single yard sale shall not last longer than four consecutive days.
   (B)   Yard sales may be conducted no more than three times per calendar year
from a residence.
   (C)   The sale may be conducted only during daylight hours.
   (D)   The sale shall be conducted only by the owner or occupant of the
premises.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 5-11-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.03 PLACEMENT OF MERCHANDISE.
   (A)   No person conducting the sale shall place merchandise offered beyond
the edge of the sidewalk nearest to the home or garage, nor shall any
merchandise be placed on the property of another party without first obtaining
the permission of the adjoining property owner or occupant.
   (B)   In the event that no sidewalks exist at the residence, then the
merchandise offered for sale shall hot be placed closer than ten feet from the
abutting street.
   (C)   No sale shall be conducted in any way so as to impede pedestrian or
vehicular traffic on any sidewalk, street or public way in the city. All
traffic regulations shall apply and be strictly enforced.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 5-11-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of this chapter shall be with the Mayor or his or her
designated authority. Any complaints shall be made to City Hall during regular
working hours. City officials shall verify the existence of a yard sale. In the
event the sale is held on a weekend or holiday, the complaining party shall
notify the city’s Police Department who shall verify the complaint.
   (B)   When complaints of more than three yard sales or yard sales lasting
longer than four days are received against a property owner or occupant and
verified, the city will then notify the owner or occupant that any more
attempted yard sales will result in court action. Thereafter, this chapter
shall be enforced as a public nuisance.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 5-11-1998)
CHAPTER 116: VENDOR CONTROL
Section
Lincoln Days Celebration
   
116.01   Guidelines to be set; fees
   
116.02   Vendor set-up; booths; area
   
116.03   Violations; complaints
   
116.04   Records to be kept
 
   
116.99   Penalty
LINCOLN DAYS CELEBRATION
§ 116.01 GUIDELINES TO BE SET; FEES.
   (A)   The Lincoln Days, Inc. Committee shall be responsible for setting
guidelines regarding vendor control and booth set-ups except for all alcohol
vendors (refer to the city alcohol policy on fairs, festivals and events for
the guidelines). The Lincoln Days, Inc. Committee shall make those guidelines
available to any persons interested in participating in the Lincoln Days
Celebration.
   (B)   The Lincoln Days, Inc. Committee shall be responsible for setting the
fees for booth rentals and making those fee scales available to any persons
interested in participating in the Lincoln Days Celebration.
   (C)   Fees assessed under this subchapter by the Lincoln Days, Inc.
Committee are assessed in lieu of any occupational fees or business licenses
which might otherwise be due to the city.
(Ord. passed 4-10-1995; Ord. 2019-07, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 116.02 VENDOR SET-UP; BOOTHS; AREA.
   (A)   The area for which the Lincoln Days, Inc. Committee is delegated
responsibility for vendor control and booth set-ups includes both sides of the
following streets, roads and highways: High Street, from Greensburg Street
corner to Walters Avenue to West Water Street to North Lincoln Boulevard to
Highway 3204 (including all of Creekfront Park) to Civils Loop; East Water
Street beginning at North Lincoln Boulevard to Greensburg Street, Greensburg
Street to High Street, including all areas within these boundaries.
   (B)   The Lincoln Days, Inc. Committee is delegated the responsibility for
vendor control and booth set-ups in the aforestated areas during the weekend
(Friday, Saturday and Sunday) designated as the Lincoln Days Celebration each
year.
(Ord. passed 4-10-1995; Ord. 2019-07, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 116.03 VIOLATIONS; COMPLAINTS.
   Any member of the Lincoln Days, Inc. Committee shall have the authority to
investigate complaints of violation. If any member of the Lincoln Days, Inc.
Committee finds that any of the provisions of this subchapter are being
violated, he or she shall notify the booth operator of the violation. If the
violation is not abated within the time prescribed by the notice, the city’s
Police Department shall cause a citation to be issued through the District
Court. Said citation shall, through the District Court system of the
commonwealth, cause a hearing to be scheduled.
(Ord. passed 4-10-1995; Ord. 2019-07, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 116.04 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   The Lincoln Days, Inc. Committee shall make records of all official actions
relating to the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this
subchapter available to the public, including, but not limited to, written
records of all complaints and actions taken with regard thereto, all violations
discovered with actions taken thereto and the final disposition of such
matters.
(Ord. passed 4-10-1995; Ord. 2019-07, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation, who shall violate any provision
of §§
116.01 through
116.04 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine at
the discretion of the District Court.
      (2)   Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been
given, in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof, shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. passed 4-10-1995; Ord. 2019-07, passed 8-12-2019)
CHAPTER 117: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS AND PUSHCART VENDORS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Mobile food unit vendor registrations
   
117.03   Permits
   
117.04   Return filing
   
117.05   Enforcement; penalties; denial, revocation or suspension of permit
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOWNTOWN SQUARE AREA. The Lincoln Square Entertainment District and adjacent
area to include the area bounded by Walters Avenue to Water Street to N.
Greensburg Street to S. Greensburg Street and to High Street.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT. A food establishment which is on wheels, is mobile and
self-propelled as a licensed vehicle from which sells both prepared and pre-
packaged consumable foods and which conducts business on public streets with
the city. MOBILE FOOD UNIT shall also include food concession trailers pulled
by licensed vehicles which are used to prepare or sell consumable foods. MOBILE
FOOD UNIT shall include ice cream vehicles.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT VENDOR. Any person or business entity who conducts business
from a mobile food unit on public streets within the city.
   PUSHCART VENDOR. Any person or business entity who conducts business from a
Pushcart on public sidewalks within the city.
   PUSHCARTS. A non-self-propelled mobile food unit that is lightweight enough,
designed and intended to be moved by one person that typically serves foods
such as fruit, popcorn, drinks, hotdogs, flavored ice, or prewrapped foods.
§ 117.02 MOBILE FOOD UNIT VENDOR REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Mobile food unit vendors and pushcart vendors shall be subject to and
shall comply with all city business regulation requirements and shall not be
delinquent on any fees or taxes owed to the city. Mobile food unit vendors and
pushcart vendors shall also comply with all other federal, state, and local
laws, rules and regulations including, but not limited to, Health Department
and Kentucky Fire Marshal laws and regulations.
   (B)   Mobile food unit vendors using public streets in the city outside of
the Lincoln Square Entertainment District Area shall operate only in authorized
on-street parking spaces and shall not occupy more than two consecutive
parallel parking spaces. Mobile food units shall not be parked for longer than
four hours and shall not park any closer than ten feet from any structure.
Except as authorized in this chapter, mobile food unit vendors shall not park
any mobile food unit in a manner which prohibits others from parking in
otherwise available spaces or areas or park in any manner that prohibits or
hinders the ability of other drivers to safely enter or exit any street or
alley or to observe posted traffic signs or signals. Mobile food units may
operate on public streets outside the Lincoln Square Entertainment District
Area in the city from 6:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. each day.
   (C)   Mobile food unit vendors using public streets in the city within the
Lincoln Square Entertainment District Area may operate in authorized on-street
parallel parking spaces from 6:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. and Town Hill parking lot
from 6:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. Mobile food unit vendors shall not occupy more
than two consecutive parallel parking spaces and shall not park for longer than
hours. Except as authorized in this chapter, mobile food unit vendors shall not
park any mobile food unit in a manner that prohibits or hinders the ability of
other drivers to safely enter or exit any street or alley or to observe posted
traffic signs or signals. Any mobile food unit operating in the Lincoln Square
Entertainment District Area after 5:00 p.m. shall park only in Town Hill
parking lot or designated posted areas.
   (D)   Pushcart vendors may operate on public sidewalks in the Lincoln Square
Entertainment District Area of the city. Pushcart vendors shall not operate on
public streets, roads, or alleys. Pushcart vendors shall not impede the ingress
or egress of any driveway or the entrance to any building. Pushcart vendors
shall not obstruct pedestrian space and shall maintain at a minimum five feet
of sidewalk space for pedestrian passage adjacent to the pushcart. Pushcart
vendors may operate from 6:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. and shall not remain at the
same location for more than four hours.
   (E)   No mobile food unit or pushcart shall operate in violation of the
above provisions unless allowed pursuant to an approved special city sanctioned
event. During special events, no mobile food unit or pushcart shall occupy any
permitted special event location without the consent of the management of the
special event.
   (F)   No mobile food unit or pushcart shall be left unattended or allowed to
park on public streets or sidewalks in the city overnight and any such mobile
food unit or pushcart left unattended or parked overnight may be towed or
removed at the city’s discretion. All mobile food unit vendors and pushcart
vendors shall promptly cease operations and remove the mobile food unit or
pushcart upon request by appropriate city officials.
   (G)   Mobile food unit vendors or pushcart vendors shall only use lighting
which is affixed to the mobile food unit or pushcart, and which does not cause
any glare that creates a public hazard, nuisance or distraction to other
vehicles or neighboring businesses. No flashing, strobe or neon lighting shall
be permitted.
   (H)   Mobile food unit vendors and pushcart vendors shall supply their own
electrical power and shall not connect to city power outlets unless approved
otherwise.
   (I)   The operator of any mobile food unit shall possess a valid driver’s
license and shall provide that license upon request by any authorized city
official.
   (J)   Mobile food units and pushcarts shall at all times operate in a manner
that ensures the safety of patrons, pedestrians, and the public. All operations
of authorized mobile food units shall serve customers only from the side of the
mobile food unit that is parked abutting and parallel to the curb and from the
side opposite of the flow of traffic. No mobile food units or pushcarts shall
solicit drive-through service or solicit or make any sales to occupants of
vehicles nor shall mobile food units or pushcarts operate in a manner to cause
congestion that impedes pedestrian or vehicle traffic or interferes with the
public use of any rights-of way, sidewalks, or public benches. No tables,
chairs or similar property shall be permitted on public property. No cords,
cables or wires shall be attached to any part of the mobile food unit, trailer
or pushcart that cross any public sidewalk or street.
   (K)   The mobile food unit or pushcart shall provide its own waste and
recycling containers in sufficient size to collect all waste and recyclables
generated by the mobile food unit or pushcart. The operator of the mobile food
unit or pushcart shall remove all garbage, trash, paper, cups, cans, or litter
from the immediate area around the mobile food unit or pushcart. No waste shall
be disposed of in public waste receptacles. No hoses or drainage of grease
traps or similar liquids shall be drained into any storm water drainage system
and all such liquids shall remain on the mobile food unit or pushcart until
properly disposed.
   (L)   Mobile food unit vendors and pushcart vendors shall be responsible for
any damage to public property or public streets caused by the operation of the
mobile food unit or pushcart, including, but not limited to, damage due to
stakes, rods, or other support methods.
   (M)   City of Hodgenville Code Enforcement or Police Department shall be
authorized, to inspect the permitted mobile food unit or pushcart without
notice and without consent during normal operating hours.
   (N)   All mobile food units and pushcarts shall be operated with noise
appropriate generators. Sound absorbing devices are recommended to contain or
deflect the noise form generators. All mobile food unit generators shall be
rated at or below 80 decibels. Amplified music is not prohibited.
   (O)   The city has the authority to limit or prohibit an operation on any
city-owned properties.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 117.03 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other business entity
shall operate a mobile food unit or pushcart on public rights-of-way in the
city without a mobile food unit vendor or pushcart vendor permit issued by the
City Code Enforcement. Each mobile food unit or pushcart shall require a
separate permit (a vehicle pulling a trailer constitutes one mobile food unit).
Each permit shall be valid for a 12-month calendar period beginning on January
1 of each year unless suspended or revoked. Upon approval of the permit
application, the mobile food unit or pushcart shall be issued a unique color-
coded sticker for that calendar year and this sticker shall be affixed to the
mobile food unit or pushcart in a publicly visible location. Mobile food unit
vendors and pushcart vendors shall renew permits with the city prior to the end
of any 12-month term and shall be in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter prior to being issued a renewal permit.
   (B)   The mobile food unit or pushcart permit application shall be submitted
with an annual fee of $200 along with the name, business address and contact
information for the applicant. Any permit issued on or after July 1 of any
calendar year shall pay a permit fee of $100 for the remainder of that year.
The application shall also include a copy of the documentation showing that the
mobile food unit or pushcart has been inspected and approved by the City Code
Enforcement, Health Department and Kentucky State Fire Marshal office. The
application shall also include the mobile food unit license number,
description, vehicle identification number and proof of the mobile food unit
automotive insurance. The mobile food unit or pushcart permit application shall
contain proof of required liability and other insurance required by this
chapter.
   (C)   Each mobile food unit vendor or pushcart vendor issued a permit shall
agree to hold the city and its officials, officers, and employees harmless and
to indemnify and defend the city against all claims, damages, losses and
expensed, including attorney’s fees, resulting from the permitted activity.
Each mobile food unit vendor or pushcart vendor also agrees to indemnify and
hold harmless the city and its official, officers and employees for bodily
injury, disease or death, or injury to or destruction of property, including
the loss of use there from and/or breach of contract that is not caused by an
negligent act or omission of willful misconduct of the city or its officials,
officers and employees acting within the scope of their employment.
   (D)   The mobile food unit vendor or pushcart vendor shall not commence work
until all insurance has been obtained and copies of policies or certificates
thereof are submitted to and approved by the city. Without limiting vendor’s
indemnification requirements, it is agreed that vendor/seller shall procure,
maintain, and keep in force at all times during the performance of this
agreement the following policy or policies of insurance covering its operations
in the minimum limits set out below:
      (1)   (a)   Commercial general liability. Including contractual
liability, bodily injury and property damage combined at a minimum of
$1,000,000 for each occurrence; personal and advertising injury of $1,000,000
for any one person or organization and $1,000,000 in the aggregate.
         (b)   Automobile liability. Insuring all owned, non-owned and hired
motor vehicles. The minimum coverage for liability limit is $1,000,000 combined
single limit for any one accident. The limit of liability may be subject to
increase according to any applicable state or federal transportation
regulations.
         (c)   Workers' compensation. Insuring the employers’ obligations under
KRS Chapter 342 at statutory limits.
      (2)   The commercial general liability policy shall be endorsed to
contain the following provisions:
         (a)   The City of Hodgenville, its elected and appointed officials,
employees, agents and successors and volunteers are to be added as “additional
insured.” The coverage shall contain no special limitations on the scope of
protection afforded to the city, its elected and appointed officials,
employees, agents, successors, and volunteers and may not include terms which
may make the coverage excess to other insurance on which the city, its elected
and appointed officials, employees, agents, successors, and volunteers may also
qualify as an additional insured.
         (b)   The insurance coverage for the vendor entering into a contract
shall be on a primary and non-contributory basis for liability arising out of
activities performed by or on behalf of the vendor entering into this contract
for service including the insured’s general supervision of the premises owned,
occupied or used by the vendor/seller entering into this contract and ongoing
operations as well as completed operations and work performed by vendor. Any
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the city, its elected and appointed
officials, employees, agents and successors and volunteers shall be in the
excess of the vendor’s insurance coverage.
         (c)   Certificates of insurance as required above shall be furnished
to:
                     City of Hodgenville
                     Attn: Code Enforcement
                     200 South Lincoln Blvd.
                     Hodgenville, KY 42748
                     Fax: 270-358-9757
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 117.04 RETURN FILING.
   Mobile food unit vendors or pushcart vendors are exempt from filing a return
as required by §§
110.25 through
110.41.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 117.05 ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES; DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings for the provisions of this chapter shall be
initiated by the issuance of a notice of violation or a citation by the City
Code Enforcement. Any person or business entity violating any of the provisions
of this chapter, shall be subject to civil fines as set out in §
31.26 (Ordinance Fine Schedule).
   (B)   The City Code Enforcement may deny the issuance of a mobile food unit
vendor or pushcart vendor permit pursuant to this chapter due to the failure of
the applicant to meet the requirements of this chapter or for filing an
application that contains material false or untrue statements. The City Code
Enforcement may revoke or suspend the mobile food unit vendor or pushcart
vendor permit of any person or business entity that violates the provisions of
this chapter, including but not limited to: (1) the failure of the permittee to
comply with this chapter and other laws and regulations involving the
operations of the mobile food unit or pushcart; (2) the failure of the
permittee to pay the appropriate permit fees, other taxes and fees and civil
fines payable to the city; and (3) the submission by the permittee of an
application that contains material false or untrue statements. Any denial,
suspension or revocation shall be in writing setting forth the basis for the
denial, suspension, or revocation. The applicant or permittee may request an
appeal in writing within 20 days following the date of the denial, suspension
or revocation addressed to the City Manager. The City Manager shall review the
record and the basis for the denial, suspension or revocation and may meet with
the applicant or permittee. The decision of the City Code Enforcement shall be
final.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 12-16-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Wearing masks, hoods and face coverings
   
130.02   Curfew
   
130.03   Disorderly conduct
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 WEARING MASKS, HOODS AND FACE COVERINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MASK, HOOD or FACE COVERING. Any device that covers or conceals any
portion of a person’s face so as to conceal the identity of the wearer.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A place to which the public or substantial groups of
persons has access and includes, but is not limited to: highways, streets,
lanes, alleys, roads, sidewalks, transportation facilities; schools, places of
amusements, parks, places of business, playgrounds; and hallways, lobbies and
other portions of apartment houses and hotels not constituting rooms or
apartments designed for actual residence.
   (B)   Wearing hoods or masks in a public place. Subject to the exemptions
set forth in division (C) below, no group of three or more persons shall, while
wearing any mask, hood or face covering, enter, remain or appear in any public
place within the city.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following are exempted from the provision of division
(B) above:
      (1)   Any person under 16 years of age;
      (2)   Any person using masks in theatrical productions, including use in
Mardi Gras celebrations or similar masquerade balls;
      (3)   Any person wearing a traditional holiday costume in season;
      (4)   Any person engaged in a trade or employment where a mask, hood or
face covering is worn for the purpose of ensuring the physical safety of the
wearer or because of the nature of the trade or employment;
      (5)   Any person wearing a mask, hood or face covering for the sole
purpose of protection from the elements or while participating in a sporting
event;
      (6)   Any person wearing a mask, hood or face covering prescribed for
civil defense drills, exercises or emergencies;
      (7)   Any person wearing a mask, hood or face covering for bona fide
medical reasons upon the advice of a licensed physician or osteopath and able
to produce, upon request, evidence of the medical necessity for wearing the
device; and/or
      (8)   Any person engaging in an activity such that the wearing of the
mask, hood or face covering is protected by the Constitution of the
commonwealth or the United States Constitution.
(Ord. 2017-08, passed 10-9-2017) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday
until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
         (b)   12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
      (2)   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term includes but is not
limited to a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      (3)   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      (4)   GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      (5)   MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      (6)   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or
corporation operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term
includes the members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
      (7)   PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      (8)   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group
of the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets,
highways, and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office
buildings, transport facilities, and shops.
      (9)   REMAIN.
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
      (10)   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial
risk of death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or
protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
curfew hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   It is a exemption to division (B) that the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) that the
owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the police
department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, including any
investigation additional to the actions required by this division (D) as a
reasonable person would deem necessary, no exemption in division (C) is
present.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.010) (Ord. passed 9-9-1969) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person is guilty of disorderly conduct if, with intent to cause public
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm or recklessly creating a risk thereof, he or
she:
   (A)   Engages in fighting or in violent, tumultuous or threatening behavior;
   (B)   Makes unreasonable noise;
   (C)   In a public place, uses abusive or obscene language or makes an
obscene gesture;
   (D)   Without lawful authority, disturbs any lawful assembly or meeting of
persons;
   (E)   Obstructs vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
   (F)   Congregates with other persons in a public place and refuses to comply
with a lawful order of the police to disperse; and/or
   (G)   Creates a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act that
serves no legitimate purpose.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.010) (Ord. passed 9-10-1968) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
130.01(B) of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
no more than $250 and/or imprisoned for no longer than 50 days.
   (C)   Any person violating §
130.02 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10, nor
more than $19; provided, however, that, all juveniles in violation of §
130.02 of this chapter shall be referred to the Juvenile Court of the county.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.020)
   (D)   Disorderly conduct, per §
130.03 of this chapter, is punishable by imprisonment in jail for not more than
six months, by a fine of not more than $500, or both.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.020)
(Ord. passed 9-10-1968; Ord. passed 9-9-1969; Ord. 2017-08, passed 10-9-2017)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   MOBILE HOMES
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Permit fee schedule
Dangerous and Unfit Buildings
   
150.15   Unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use
   
150.16   Enforcement
   
150.17   Complaint procedure
   
150.18   Notice and hearing
Sidewalks
   
150.30   Maintenance and repair
   
150.31   Inspection and notice
   
150.32   Failure to comply
   
150.33   Performance by city
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following fees shall be charged for the following services:
Permit Fee Schedule
Permit Fee Schedule
Board of Zoning Adjustments
   Conditional use (non-   $10
hearing)
   Conditional use (public $35
hearing)
   Variance                $35
Demolition (Any demolition at the direction of the Building Official shall not be charged for a
demolition permit.)
   Commercial              $25
   Residential             $10
Moving of Structure or Building
   Any building            $50 (There are no fee requirements for farm or agriculturally-associated
                              buildings.)
New Construction
   $250 and less           No fee, unless inspection required, in which case a $5 fee for each
                              inspection shall be charged
   $251 to $15,000         $25 minimum
   $15,001 to $50,000      $25 for the first $15,000, plus $3 for each additional thousand or
                              fraction thereof, to and including $50,000
   $50,001 to $100,000     $130 for the first $50,000, plus $2.50 for each additional thousand or
                              fraction thereof, to and including $100,000
   $100,001 to $500,000    $255 for the first $100,000, plus $2 for each additional thousand or
                              fraction thereof, to and including $500,000
   $500,001 and above      $1,055 for the first $500,000, plus $1 for each additional thousand or
                              fraction thereof
                              When the valuation of the proposed construction, commercial, industrial or
                              multi-family residential, exceeds $5,000, a plan-checking fee shall be
Plan-Checking Fee             required to be paid to the city at the time of submitting said plans and
                              specifications for checking. A plan-checking fee shall be equal to one-
                              quarter of the normal “New Construction” fee
Planned Unit Development
   Commercial and industria$25, plus $1 per 10 sq. ft. of building
   Residential             $25, plus $1 per dwelling unit
Remodeling or Rehabilitation
   $250 and less           No fees, unless inspection required, in which case a $5 fee for each
                              inspection shall be charged
   $251 to $2,500          $15
   $2,501 to $5,000        $20
   $5,001 and above        See “New Construction” fee
Rezoning Request              $50
Sign Installation
   15 sq. ft. or less      $10
   All above 15 sq. ft.    $10 for the first 15 sq. ft., plus $0.20 for each additional sq. ft. of
                              display area
Subdivision Application       $5, plus $1 per lot
 
(Prior Code, § 15.04.010) (Ord. passed 1-14-1975) Penalty, see §
150.99
DANGEROUS AND UNFIT BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION, OCCUPANCY OR USE.
   All buildings or structures within the city which are found to be dangerous
or injurious to the health, safety and morals of the occupants of such
structure, the occupants of neighboring structures or other residents of the
city shall be deemed unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use.
(Ord. 18, passed 7-14-2003) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Mayor or his or her designee shall exercise such powers as are necessary
or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this
subchapter, including the following powers in addition to others herein
granted:
   (A)   To cause an investigation of the structural conditions in the city in
order to determine which structures therein are unfit for human habitation,
occupancy or use;
   (B)   To administer oaths, affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examination, but such
entries shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the person in possession;
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents and employees
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter; and
   (E)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this
subchapter to such officers, agents and employees as he or she designates.
(Ord. 18, passed 7-14-2003)
§ 150.17 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   The following complaint procedure shall be followed.
   (A)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Mayor or his or her designee by
a public authority or by at least five residents of the city charging that any
structure is unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use, or whenever it
appears to the Mayor or his or her designee that any structure is unfit for
human habitation, occupancy or use, the Mayor or his or her designee shall, if
his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such allegations,
cause to be served upon the owner and parties in interest of such structure a
complaint stating the allegations.
   (B)   The complaint shall state: that a hearing will be held before the City
Council at a place fixed in the complaint not less than ten days, nor more than
30 days, after the serving of the complaint; that the owner and parties in
interest may file an answer to the complaint and appear in person, or
otherwise, and give testimony at the time and place stated in the complaint;
and that the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure shall not be controlling in the
hearing.
(Ord. 18, passed 7-14-2003)
§ 150.18 NOTICE AND HEARING.
   (A)   If, after notice and hearing, the City Council determines that the
structure under consideration is unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use,
it shall state in writing its findings of fact in support of such determination
and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order
requiring the owner, within the time specified, to repair, alter or improve the
structure to render it fit for human habitation, occupancy or use or, at the
option of the owner, to vacate, demolish and remove the structure.
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
or, at the option of the owner, to vacate and close the structure, the Mayor or
his or her designee may cause the structure to be repaired, altered or improved
or to be vacated and closed. The Mayor or his or her designee may cause to be
posted on the main entrance of any structure so closed, a placard with the
following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation, occupancy or
use. The use or occupation of this building for human habitation, occupancy or
use is prohibited and unlawful.”
   (C)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
structure, the Mayor or his or her designee may cause such structure to be
removed or demolished.
   (D)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition shall be a lien upon the real
property upon which costs were incurred. If the structure is removed or
demolished by the Mayor or his or her designee, he or she shall sell the
materials of the structure and shall credit the proceeds of such sale against
the cost of the removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall be
deposited in an escrow account by the Mayor or his or her designee and shall be
disbursed to the persons found to be entitled thereto after final disposition
of all matters pertaining to the property.
   (E)   When the City Council has condemned as unfit for human habitation,
occupancy or use any structure in accordance with this subchapter and has
ordered same to be vacated, the Mayor or his or her designee may, upon ten
days’ notice to the occupants, move the appropriate District Court for an order
of eviction directing the Sheriff to remove the occupants and their belongings
from the structure.
   (F)   Complaints or orders issued by the Mayor or his or her designee
pursuant to this subchapter shall be served upon persons either personally or
by certified mail; however, if the whereabouts of such.
(Ord. 18, passed 7-14-2003)
SIDEWALKS
§ 150.30 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   The owners of property abutting on sidewalks of the city are required, at
their own expense, to repair or replace that part of any sidewalk adjoining or
on their property, by filling and repairing any holes, uneven surfaces, and
other defects, by using materials as nearly similar as possible to that of
which the sidewalk is constructed.
(Ord. 98-68, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31 INSPECTION AND NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor, or any city employee designated by him or
her, to ascertain the extent of holes, uneven surfaces or other defects in the
sidewalks in the city, and to notify the owners of the property directly
adjacent to that part of the sidewalk which is found to be defective, to repair
or replace the same at their own expense within a period of 30 days after
receiving the notice.
(Ord. 98-68, passed 6-8-1998)
§ 150.32 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any owner of property who shall fail to repair the sidewalk as set out above
within 30 days after receiving notice shall be guilty of a violation of this
code for each day that the sidewalk remains unrepaired after the period fixed
by the notice.
(Ord. 98-68, passed 6-8-1998) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.33 PERFORMANCE BY CITY.
   The city may, at its option, after notifying the property owners to repair
the sidewalk as set out above, enter upon the sidewalk and repair or replace it
in the same manner as set out above, and shall bill the respective property
owners for the cost of labor and materials for the repair of the sidewalk, and
the city shall have a lien against the property for the payment of such costs.
After expiration of 30 days after the work on the repair of the sidewalk is
performed by the city, the property owners shall be liable for a penalty of 3%
per annum of the cost of labor and materials, and the same shall be a lien
against the property and shall run with the land until paid.
(Ord. 98-68, passed 6-8-1998)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Where work for which a permit is required by city ordinance or
regulation is started or proceeded with prior to obtaining a permit, during the
first 30 days of violation or 50% of construction, whichever comes first, a
penalty of 50% of the cost of the usual permit fee will be added to the permit
fee. After 30 days of violation or more than 50% construction, the usual fee
will be doubled, but the payment of such penalty shall not relieve any persons
or corporation from fully complying with the other codes, ordinances or
regulations of the city in the execution of the work, nor from any other
penalties prescribed by said codes, ordinances or regulations.
      (2)   Any person, firm, corporation or other organization which violates
division (B)(1) above and §
150.01 of this chapter by work begun or services performed without payment of
the appropriate fee shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, the violator shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $500,
plus court costs.
(Prior Code, § 15.04.020)
   (C)   (1)   The owner of any structure determined to be unfit under §§
150.15 through
150.18 of this chapter who shall fail to comply with any notice or order to
repair, vacate or demolish said structure given by the City Council under §§
150.15 through
150.18 of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation and, upon conviction,
shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense. Every day such failure to
comply continues shall be considered a separate offense.
      (2)   The occupant or lessee in possession who fails to comply with any
notice to vacate and who fails to repair said building in accordance with any
notice given as provided for in §§
150.15 through
150.18 of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation and, upon conviction,
shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense. Every day such failure to
comply continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 1-14-1975; Ord. 18, passed 7-14-2003)
CHAPTER 151: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Intent
   
151.02   Purpose and establishment
   
151.03   Historical Review Board; powers and duties
Historic Districts and Landmarks
   
151.15   Application
   
151.16   Recommendation by Historical Review Board
   
151.17   Action by city legislative body
   
151.18   Building permit required
   
151.19   Action, approval or disapproval by Historical Review Board
   
151.20   Demolition of landmarks or structures
   
151.21   Recording of historic designations
   
151.22   Maintenance, repairs and emergency conditions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 INTENT.
   Within zones now existing or hereafter created on the zoning map, it is
intended to permit the creation of historic districts and landmarks to give
protection to certain areas or individual structures and premises designated as
having special historical or architectural significance. Such districts and
landmarks and regulations are intended: to protect against destruction,
degradation or encroachment upon the areas, structures and premises designated
to be of substantial historic significance and to encourage and promote uses
which will lead to their continuance, conservation and improvement, by and
through the development and maintenance of appropriate settings which will not
be incompatible with their historic or cultural character or architectural
style and by the development and maintenance of the exterior design of these
buildings, structures or places in a manner appropriate to the preservation of
the historic heritage, charm and beauty of the city; to promote the
educational, cultural, economical and general welfare of the public and to
prevent creation of environmental influences adverse to such purposes; and to
assure that new structures and uses within historic districts will be in
keeping with the character to be preserved and enhanced.
(Ord. passed 3-8-2004)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE AND ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The district and landmarks established by §
151.01 of this chapter shall be an area or individual structure or premises
specifically designated by the City Council as containing buildings, other
structures, appurtenances and places having historic or architectural
significance. A landmark shall be 50 years old unless the Historical Review
Board makes a finding that a newer building with architectural and historical
significance should be designated to protect it. Each designation of a landmark
shall include a designation of a landmark site, which shall be limited to the
land on which the landmark and related buildings and structures are located and
the land that provides the immediate grounds and the setting for the landmark.
   (B)   To be designated, an area or structure or premises shall meet one or
more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Its value as a reminder of the cultural or archeological heritage
of the city, state or nation;
      (2)   Its location as a site of a significant local, state or national
event;
      (3)   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the development of the city, state or nation;
      (4)   Its identification as the work of a master builder, designer or
architect whose individual work has influenced the development of the city,
state or nation;
      (5)   Its value as a building that is recognized for the quality of its
architecture and that retains sufficient elements showing architectural
significance;
      (6)   Its distinguishing characteristics of an architectural style
valuable for the study of a period, method of construction or use of indigenous
materials;
      (7)   Its character as a geographically definable area possessing a
significant concentration, or continuity of sites, buildings, objects or
structures united by past events or aesthetically by plan or physical
development; or
      (8)   Its character as an established and geographically definable
neighborhood, united by culture, architectural style or physical plan and
development.
(Ord. passed 3-8-2004)
§ 151.03 HISTORICAL REVIEW BOARD; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Historical Review Board shall consist of five members to be
appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City Council. The term of two of the
members of the original Historical Review Board will expire within three years;
two within two years; and one within one year after the date of appointment.
Vacancies on the Historical Review Board shall be filled within 60 days. All
members shall have a demonstrated interest in historical preservation, and at
least two members shall have training or experience in a preservation-related
profession, architecture, history, archaeology, architectural history, planning
or related fields. When one or more professional members are not available,
persons interested in historic preservation may be appointed to those
positions. When the Historical Review Board reviews an issue that is normally
evaluated by a professional member and that field is not represented on the
Historical Review Board, the Board shall seek expert advice before rendering
its decision.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Each Historical Review Board shall make recommendations to
the City Council on all matters relating to the preservation, conservation and
enhancement of structures, premises and areas of substantial historic or
architectural significance and matters relating to the establishment of
historic districts and landmarks and regulations to be enforced thereunder. The
Historical Review Board shall inspect and identify such structures, premises
and areas as each considers having substantial historic or architectural
significance. The Historical Review Board shall conduct a continuing survey of
historical and cultural resources according to the state’s Historic
Preservation Office guidelines and shall maintain an inventory of these
resources within its jurisdiction for use by public agencies and private
owners. The Historical Review Board shall prepare a plan for the preservation
of these resources for use in advising other officials and departments of local
government. The Historical Review Board shall adopt and make public written
guidelines for use in making recommendations on requests to alter, demolish,
relocate or add to a designated property or to build a new structure in a
historic district. The guidelines shall include the United States Secretary of
the Interior’s Standards for Historic Preservation Projects, and the Historical
Review Board may adopt additional guidelines.
         (b)   The Historical Review Board shall advise and assist property
owners and other persons and groups interested in historic preservation. The
Historical Review Board shall undertake educational programs that may include
the preparation of publications, the holdings of meetings on preservation
issues and the placing of historical markers.
      (2)   To participate in the certified local government program, a local
government shall initiate all local nominations to the National Register of
Historic Places and shall request the chief elected official and the Historical
Review Board to submit recommendations on each proposed nomination to the
National Register. The chief elected official and the Historical Review Board
shall obtain comments from the public that shall be included in their National
Register recommendations. Within 60 days of the receipt of a nomination from a
private individual or the initiation of a nomination by the local government,
the local government shall inform the state’s Historic Preservation Office and
the owner of the property of the two recommendations regarding the eligibility
of the property. If the chief elected official and the Historical Review Board
do not agree, both opinions shall be forwarded in the local government’s
report. If both the chief elected official and the Historical Review Board
recommend that a property not be nominated, the state’s Historic Preservation
Office shall inform the property owner and the state’s Historic Preservation
Review Board, and the property will not be nominated unless an appeal is filed
with the state’s Historic Preservation Officer.
      (3)   If either or both the chief elected official and the Historical
Review Board agree that a property should be nominated, the nomination will
receive a preliminary review by the state’s Historic Preservation Review Board.
The state’s Review Board shall make a recommendation to the state’s Historic
Preservation Officer who decides whether to forward the nomination to the U.S.
Secretary of the Interior who shall make the decision on listing the property
on the National Register. The chief elected official, the Historical Review
Board or the property owner may appeal the final decision by the state’s
Historic Preservation Officer. In the development of the certified local
government program, the local government may ask the Historical Review Board to
perform other responsibilities that may be delegated to the local government
under the National Historic Preservation Act, being 54 U.S.C. §§ 300101 et seq.
   (C)   The Historical Review Board shall adopt rules for the conduct of its
duties, which shall be subject to review of the City Council to ensure
uniformity, shall elect a Chairperson and keep minutes of all meetings.
Meetings shall be held at regularly scheduled times at least four times a year
or at the call of the Chairperson or, in his or her absence, at the call of the
Vice-Chairperson, or at the request of the City Council. All meetings shall be
advertised in advance in accordance with the provisions of KRS Ch. 424 and
shall be held in a public place. A quorum shall consist of three members, but a
lesser number may conduct public hearings or meetings at which the principal
purpose is collection of information; provided that, no action binding on the
Historical Review Board shall be taken at such hearings or meetings. All
meetings and records of the Historical Review Board shall be public.
Recommendations by the Historical Review Board shall be made by a majority vote
of these members at any meeting where a quorum of members is present, except
where greater number is specifically required. The City Council shall provide a
secretarial staff and financial assistance to the Historical Review Board so
that it may have professional staff assistance. The Historical Review Board
shall prepare and keep on file, available for public inspection, a written
annual report of its activities, cases, decisions, special projects and
qualifications of the members. Each Historical Review Board member shall attend
each year one informational or educational meeting that has been approved by
the state’s Historic Preservation Officer.
(Ord. passed 3-8-2004)
HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND LANDMARKS
§ 151.15 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for the establishment of an historic district or a
landmark and landmark site may be filed only by the Historical Review Board,
the Planning Commission, the respective government body, the owner of the
subject property or by a person with written authorization of the owner.
   (B)   Said application shall be filed with the Historical Review Board in
such form and accompanied by such information as required by this chapter and
the rules of the Historical Review Board.
   (C)   Upon the filing of an application by a governmental body, the
Historical Review Board shall promptly notify the owner by certified mail.
(Ord. passed 3-8-2004)
§ 151.16 RECOMMENDATION BY HISTORICAL REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   Upon the filing of an application for the establishment of a historic
district or a landmark and landmark site, the Historical Review Board shall
study and review the application.
   (B)   Before acting upon the application, the Historical Review Board shall
give notice of the time, place and reason for holding a public hearing thereon
by the publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the county, not
earlier than 21 days or later than seven days before the public hearing.
   (C)   After notice of the public hearing as provided herein, and within 30
days after the filing date, the Historical Review Board shall hold a public
hearing on the proposed application and recommend to the City Council that the
application be approved or disapproved.
   (D)   After voting to recommend that an application for the establishment or
a historic district or a landmark and landmark site be approved or disapproved,
the Historical Review Board shall forward its recommendation, with its reasons
therefor, in writing, to the City Council.
   (E)   All applicants and property owners shall be notified of meetings and
subsequent decisions relating to their applications of property.
(Ord. passed 3-8-2004)
§ 151.17 ACTION BY CITY LEGISLATIVE BODY.
   The City Council shall act upon a proposed application for the establishment
of a historic district or a landmark and landmark site after it has received
the written recommendation thereon from the Historical Review Board and within
45 days after receiving the Historical Review Board’s recommendation.
(Ord. passed 3-8-2004)
§ 151.18 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall issue no building permits for the
construction, alteration or moving of any structure or premises, or change in
exterior appearance of any structure and the Board of Adjustments shall take no
action resulting in the issuance of any building permit for a landmark or
landmark site or for a property in a historic district, except as expressly
authorized under §
151.19(A) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-8-2004)
§ 151.19 ACTION, APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL BY HISTORICAL REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the filing of an application for a building permit for a
landmark and landmark site or for a property in a historic district, the
Planning and Zoning Administrator shall promptly notify the Historical Review
Board of such application.
      (2)   When a person wishes to undertake an exterior alteration affecting
a landmark and landmark site or a property in a historic district that does not
require a building permit, that person shall apply directly to the Historical
Review Board. The applicant shall file with the application any of the plans,
plot plans, landscaping plans, plans for off-street parking, proposed signs,
elevations of all portions of proposed structures facing streets and elevation
photographs or perspective drawings showing proposed structures and all such
existing structures as are within 100 feet of the landmark and landmark site of
the property in the historic district and are substantially related to it
visually or by reason of its function, traffic generation or other
characteristics. The applicant may submit for Board review the required items
or material in a preliminary form which shall be labeled “preliminary design”
in large letters.
      (3)   The Board may review the same and recommend modification and/or
change, but shall not be required to take any final action until submission of
the required items, material and information in final form. The Board shall
meet within 15 days after notification by the Planning and Zoning Administrator
of the filing of such application. In its review of material submitted, the
Historical Review Board shall examine the: architectural design and the
exterior surface; treatment of the structures on the site in question and their
relationship to other structures within the area; and other pertinent factors
including signs affecting the appearance and efficient functioning of the
historic district or the landmark. The Board shall not consider any interior
arrangements, nor shall it make requirements relating to the interior, except
for the purpose of preventing developments obviously incongruous to the
district or the landmark. The Board shall vote to approve or disapprove the
application within 30 days after the application is filed for a building permit
with the Planning and Zoning Administrator. All applicants and property owners
shall be notified of meetings and subsequent decisions relating to their
applications or property.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the
Historical Review Board shall not be required to approve or disapprove an
application until the applicant has received the approvals he or she needs from
other government offices.
   (B)   If the Historical Review Board recommends approval of the application
for a building permit for a landmark and landmark site or for a property in a
historic district, it shall forward immediately its recommendation in writing
stating the reasons for such approval to the Planning and Zoning Administrator.
The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall then issue the building permit if
it meets all other requirements of law. The Planning and Zoning Administrator
shall inspect the construction or alteration approved from time to time and
report to the Historical Review Board and the City Council any work not in
accordance with such building permit. In the event work is being performed not
in accordance with the building permit, a stop-work order shall be issued by
the Planning and Zoning Administrator and all work shall cease.
   (C)   (1)   If the Historical Review Board recommends disapproval of the
application for a building permit for a landmark and landmark site or for a
property in a historic district, it shall promptly transmit a written report
stating the reasons for such disapproval to the Planning and Zoning
Administrator. In said written report, the Historical Review Board shall make
recommendations in regard to an appropriate architectural design, exterior
surface treatment or other appropriate matters to make the application conform
to the intent of the historic district and landmark regulations.
      (2)   In the event the Historical Review Board recommends disapproval of
an application for a building permit for a landmark and landmark site or for a
property in a historic district, the applicant for said permit may appeal to
the City Council, which shall hold a public hearing thereon and shall vote on
said appeal within 45 days after the notice of appeal is filed with the City
Council. The City Council shall notice of the time, place and reason for
holding a public hearing thereon by one publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county not earlier than 21 days or later than seven days
before the public hearing. If the City Council votes to approve the application
for a building permit, it shall promptly issue a certificate of appropriateness
to the applicant and transmit a copy to the Planning and Zoning Administrator.
If the City Council votes to disapprove the application for a building permit,
it shall transmit its decision in writing to the applicant and the Planning and
Zoning Administrator. The applicant may appeal the disapproval by the City
Council to the Circuit Court.
(Ord. passed 3-8-2004)
§ 151.20 DEMOLITION OF LANDMARKS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The Historical Review Board shall have the power to instruct the
Planning and Zoning Administrator temporarily to deny a demolition permit for
any destruction of a landmark or any building in the historic district or on a
landmark site which the Board considers to have historical value. The
Historical Review Board shall negotiate with the applicant to see if an
alternative to demolition can be found. The Historical Review Board may ask
interested individuals and organizations for assistance in seeking an
alternative to demolition and in obtaining estimates on rehabilitation costs
for the threatened building.
   (B)   The Historical Review Board shall hold a public hearing on the
proposed demolition within 30 days after the application for the demolition
permit was filed with the Planning and Zoning Administrator. The Historical
Review Board shall promptly notify the applicant of the public hearing by
certified mail and shall give notice of the time, place and reason for holding
the public hearing by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the county not earlier than 21 days or later than seven days before the public
hearing.
   (C)   The Historical Review Board shall study the question of economic
hardship for the applicant and shall determine by a preponderance of the
evidence whether the landmark or the building in the historic district or on
the landmark site can be put to reasonable beneficial use without the approval
of the demolition application. In the case of an income-producing building, the
Historical Review Board shall also determine by a preponderance of the evidence
whether the applicant can obtain a reasonable return from his or her existing
building. The Historical Review Board may ask applicants for additional
information to be used in making these determinations. If the Historical Review
Board finds economic hardship or the lack of a reasonable return, it shall
recommend approval of the demolition application, if economic hardship or the
lack of a reasonable return is not proved, the Historical Review Board shall
deny the demolition application unless the Historical Review Board finds
grounds to recommend approving the demolition application using the standards
for review contained in §
151.19(A) of this chapter. The Historical Review Board shall take final action
upon any case within 60 days after the application for the demolition permit
was filed with the Planning and Zoning Administrator or the demolition permit
shall be deemed to be approved by the Historical Review Board.
   (D)   In the event the Historical Review Board denies an application for a
demolition permit for a landmark or a building in a historic district or on a
landmark site, the applicant for said permit may appeal to the City Council,
which shall hold a public hearing thereon and shall vote on said appeal within
45 days after the notice of appeal is filed with the City Council. The City
Council shall give notice of the time, place and reason for holding the public
hearing by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the county
not earlier than 21 days or later than seven days before the public hearing. If
the City Council votes to recommend that the application for demolition permit
be approved, it shall transmit a copy of its findings to applicant and to the
Planning and Zoning Administrator. If the City Council votes to deny the
application for a demolition permit, it shall transmit its decision in writing
to the applicant and to the Planning and Zoning Administrator. The applicant
may appeal the denial by City Council to the Circuit Court.
(Ord. passed 3-8-2004)
§ 151.21 RECORDING OF HISTORIC DESIGNATIONS.
   The Historical Review Board shall arrange that the designation of a property
as a landmark or as part of a historic district be recorded in the land records
of the county.
(Ord. passed 3-8-2004)
§ 151.22 MAINTENANCE, REPAIRS AND EMERGENCY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Every person in charge of a landmark and landmark site or a property
in a historic district shall keep it in good repair. The purpose of this
division (A) is to prevent a person from forcing the demolition of his or her
building by neglecting it and permitting damage to the building by weather or
vandalism. The Historical Review Board shall request a meeting with a property
owner when his or her landmark or his or her building in a historic district or
on a landmark site is in poor repair, and the Historical Review Board shall
discuss with the owner ways to improve the condition of his or her property.
After this step, the Historical Review Board may request the City Council to
take action to require correction of defects in any building or structure
designated under this chapter so that such building or structure shall be
preserved in accordance with the purposes of this chapter. The action taken may
include boarding up the doors, windows and other parts of the building and
additional steps to stabilize walls, roofs and other parts of a building. The
provisions of this division (A) shall be in addition to all other provisions of
the state’s Building Code requiring buildings and structures to be kept in good
repair.
   (B)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance may be undertaken without permission
from the Historical Review Board; provided, this work on a landmark and
landmark site or a property in a historic district does not change its exterior
appearance.
   (C)   In any case where the City Council determines that there are emergency
conditions dangerous to life, health or property affecting a landmark and
landmark site or a property in a historic district, it may order the remedying
of these conditions without the approval of the Historical Review Board.
(Ord. passed 3-8-2004)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than $100, nor more than $200, for each offense. Each day’s violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 3-8-2004)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
152.08   Establishment of development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretation
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.25   Local Administrator; powers and duties
   
152.26   Development permit
   
152.27   Appeals and variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.40   General construction standards
   
152.41   Specific standards
   
152.42   Streams without established base flood elevation (unnumbered A Zones)
and/or floodways
   
152.43   Shallow flooding zones
   
152.44   Subdivision proposals
   
152.45   Accessory structures in all zones beginning with the letter ‘A’
   
152.46   Critical facilities
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the commonwealth has, in KRS Ch. 100, delegated to local
government units the authority to adopt regulations designed to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water erosion hazards or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood-blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential home buyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principle source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt or a combination
of both. In A ZONES, flood waters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are
usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year flood, base
flood elevations and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principle structure, the use of which is incidental
to the use of the principle structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a
minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation and should be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay
sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   A1-30 AND AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
shown.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1-A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO AND AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the decertification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete, these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   A99 ZONE. The part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   B AND X ZONES (SHADED). Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than one square mile, and areas
protected by levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year. (Also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD.) BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH and AR/AO
that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a 1%
or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all four sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground,
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank or other human-made
facility or infrastructure. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated or qualified community
official) from available technical studies, historical information and other
available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic inundation by
flood waters that can adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.
      (1)   Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe consequences
to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or unreachable
because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the health and safety
of the public.
      (2)   CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to: housing likely
to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to avoid injury or death unaided
during a flood; schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency
response installations, vehicle and equipment storage facilities, emergency
operations centers likely to be called upon before, during and after a flood,
public and private utility facilities important to maintaining or restoring
normal services before, during and after a flood, and those facilities or
installations which produce, use or store volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic
and/or water-reactive materials, hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls,
piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls or breakaway walls. (See
freeboard requirements for residential and non-residential structures.)
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. The portion of a structure below the base flood elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before 1-1-1975, for FIRMs
effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as
EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first Floodplain Management Ordinance adopted by city based on specific
technical base flood elevation data which established the area of special flood
hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-YEAR FLOOD have a moderate to
low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD, FLOODING or FLOOD WATER.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e., mudflows). See MUDSLIDES; and
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See FLOOD-
RELATED EROSION.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map (FBFM) and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited to, emergency
preparedness plans, flood-control works, floodplain management ordinances and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control) and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities, is water-tight to a specified design
elevation with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water
and all structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated
debris impact forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The area of the floodplain on either side of the regulatory
floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional hydraulic and/
or hydrologic analysis.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. FREEBOARD must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components and the like.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §
152.27 of this chapter, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on
or victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the City Council
will consider the feet that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100
years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger and suffering that those
increased flood damages. In addition, future owners may purchase the property,
unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage and can be insured only at
very high flood insurance rates.
   FUNCTIONALLY-DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long- term storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit (i.e., county or municipality) that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The HAZARD POTENTIAL classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood-routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
      (1)   Increased cost of compliance coverage provides for the payment of a
claim for the cost to comply with state or community floodplain management laws
or ordinances after a direct physical loss by flood. When a building covered by
a Standard Flood Insurance Policy under the NFIP sustains a loss and the state
or community declares the building to be substantially or repetitively damaged,
ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the cost to elevate, flood-proof, demolish
or remove the building.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and non-residential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries and municipal, buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   KRS 151.250, PLANS FOR DAMS, LEVEES AND THE LIKE TO BE APPROVED AND PERMIT
ISSUED BY CABINET (ENVIRONMENTAL AND PUBLIC PROTECTION CABINET).
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood-control districts or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill or other obstruction (except
those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream, or
in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for such
work have been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction or improvement, and such plans and
specifications have been approved in writing by the Cabinet and a permit
issued. However, the Cabinet, by regulation, may exempt those dams, embankments
or other obstructions, which are not of such size or type as to require
approval by the Cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county or other political subdivision of the state
shall commence the filing of any area with earth, debris or any other material,
or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building, barrier or
obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or stream or in
the floodway of the stream so that such filling, raising or obstruction will in
any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the floodway of the
stream unless plans and specifications for such work have been submitted to and
approved by the cabinet and a permit issued as required in division (1) above.
      (3)   Nothing in this definition is intended to give the cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance or operation of any drainage district, ditch or system
established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the same
except where such obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by the
cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water resources
in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control thereof so
notified. The Department for Natural Resources, through KRS Ch. 350, shall have
exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Ch. 151 concerning the regulation of dams,
levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills or other obstructions across or
along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which structures are
permitted under KRS Ch. 350 for surface coal mining operations.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMCs include the following
categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION - FILL (LOMR-F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM.
      (1)   A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
      (2)   For a LEVEE SYSTEM to be recognized, the following criteria must be
met.
         (a)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised).
         (b)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or
state agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a
community participating in the NFIP.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood-resistant material, void
of utilities, except for essential tightening and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support or
basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion of
construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure’s foundation
system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
“recreational vehicle”. (See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.)
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on. a flood map, followed by a
letter suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel.
The letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been
revised. (The letter “A” is not used by FEMA; the letter “B” is the first
revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value) or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community’s FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) 1929 or NORTH
AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures; and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE- (i.e., MUDFLOW-) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (RWBP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the Federal Government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRMs. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the city’s floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the city’s adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including, but not limited to, small business concerns, churches, schools, farm
structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months’ duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRMs and digitally-referenced FIRMs
(DFIRMs).) (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). (See BASE FLOOD.)
      (1)   The flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the letter A is
subject to the 100-YEAR FLOOD.
      (2)   Over the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of
experiencing such a flood with the SFHA.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before 12-31-1974, or before the effective date of the initial
FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
12-31-1974, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of PROBATION, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 C.F.R. §§
60.3, 60.4, 60.5 and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community’s participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations or
reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the ...ILLEGIBLE
TEXT...
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a ten-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred or four or more flood
losses of $1,000 or more over the life of the structure, or, three or more
flood losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than
the current value of the structure.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq., which states that no new or renewal
flood insurance coverage shall be provided for any property that the
Administrator finds has been declared by a duly constituted state or local
zoning authority or other authorized public body to be in violation of state or
local laws, regulations or ordinances that are intended to discourage or
otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in flood-prone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AO or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development.) The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns or any work beyond
the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on the
property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground,
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks or other human-made
facilities or infrastructures. See BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.
      (1)   Any damage to a building for which the cost of repairs equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the damage occurring.
This term includes structures that are categorized as repetitive loss.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, “repair” is considered to
occur when the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences.
      (3)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any combination of reconstruction, alteration or improvement to a
building, taking place during a one-year period in which the cumulative
percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the current market value of
the building. For the purposes of this definition, an IMPROVEMENT occurs when
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of
the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
      (2)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions;
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”; or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities
and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets, utilities and
pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
   ...ILLEGIBLE TEXT... enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake
or underlying aquifer.
   X ZONE.
      (1)   The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA;
      (2)   Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of
being equaled or exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year; and
      (3)   Unshaded X zones (C zones on older FIRMs) designate areas where the
annual exceedance probability of flooding is less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated or qualified community official as determined by
the City Council from available technical studies, historical information and
other available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the City
Council which may be subject to periodic inundation by flood waters that can
adversely affect the public health and general welfare of the city.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for LaRue County,
dated 1-16-2009 with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS), other
supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by the city, and for
those land areas acquired by the city through annexation. This FIS and
attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may
be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of this
chapter and which are recommended to the City Council by the Floodplain
Administrator and are enacted by City Council pursuant to statutes governing
land use management regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent records of
the city and are on file and available for review by the public during regular
business hours at City Hall, 200 S. Lincoln Boulevard, Hodgenville, Kentucky.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provision of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities in the
special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
152.41 of this chapter for instructions and explanation. Application for a
development permit shall be made on forms furnished by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the City Council from taking such lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate ...ILLEGIBLE TEXT...
or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement, covenant
or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City Council, any officer or
employee, the commonwealth, the Federal Insurance Administration or the Federal
Emergency Management Agency thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.25 LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council hereby appoints the Mayor and/or his or her designee
to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter by granting
or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions and is herein
referred to as the “Floodplain Administrator”.
   (B)   (1)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are ...ILLEGIBLE TEXT... with its
provisions.
      (2)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
shall include, but not be limited to the following:
         (a)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
            1.   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
            2.   All other required state and federal permits have been
obtained; advise the permittee that additional federal or state permits may be
required and, if specific federal or state permit requirements are known,
require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the
development permit;
            3.   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner; and
            4.   The proposed development does not adversely affect the
carrying capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter,
ADVERSELY AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
         (b)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
152.07 of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal or state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
152.40 through
152.46 of this chapter. Any such information shall be submitted to the City
Council for adoption.
         (c)   Notification of other agencies.
            1.   Notify adjacent communities, the state’s Division of Water and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
            2.   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
            3.   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
         (d)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
            1.   Certification required by §
152.41(B) of this chapter (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and
certified elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
or substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
152.41(B) of this chapter;
            2.   Certification required by §
152.41(B) of this chapter (elevation or flood-proofing of non-residential
structures) as shown on a completed and certified flood-proofing certificate.
Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
the new or substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in
accordance with §
152.41(B) of this chapter;
            3.   Certification required by §
152.41(C) of this chapter (elevated structures);
            4.   Certification of elevation required by §
152.44(A) of this chapter (subdivision standards);
            5.   Certification required by §
152.41(E) of this chapter (floodway encroachments);
            6.   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
            7.   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
            8.   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this
chapter, as specified in §
152.99 of this chapter.
         (e)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions:
            1.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
152.27 of this chapter;
            2.   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
152.07 of this chapter, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review
and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
§§
152.40 through
152.46 of this chapter;
            3.   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure,
the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect in accordance with §
152.41(B) of this chapter a flood-proofing certificate; and
            4.   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
         (f)   Right of entry.
            1.   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes such building, structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Administrator may enter such
building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty, imposed upon the administrator by this chapter.
            2.   If such structure or premises are occupied, he or she shall
first present proper credentials and request entry, if such building, structure
or premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such request
entry.
            3.   If entry is refused, the Administrator shall have recourse to
every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
            4.   When the Administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building,
structure or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Administrator for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
         (g)   Stop-work orders. Upon notice from the Administrator, work on
any building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in
writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her
agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under
which work may be resumed.
         (h)   Revocation of permits.
            1.   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued
under the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or
plans on which the permit or approval was based.
            2.   The Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by
the Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
         (i)   Liability. Any officer, employee or member of the Floodplain
Administrator’s staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render himself or herself personally liable, and is hereby relieved
from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties. Any suit brought against any officer, employee or member because
of such act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this
chapter shall be defended by the Department of Law until the final termination
of the proceedings.
         (j)   Expiration off floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.26 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or
other development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
152.07 of this chapter. Application for a development permit shall be made on
forms furnished by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; ...ILLEGIBLE TEXT... the foregoing.
Endorsement of the local Administrator is required before a state floodplain
construction permit can be processed.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade;
         (b)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
non-residential structure will be flood-proofed;
         (c)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure will
meet the flood-proofing criteria in §§
152.41(B) and 152.43(B) of this chapter; and
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or flood- proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood- proofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, AH and A
Zones where the community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
         (b)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood-
proofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.27 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nature of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board. The City Council shall
establish an Appeal Board consisting of three individuals.
   (C)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board.
      (1)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the local District Court, as provided in
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Appeals and variance procedures. In passing upon such applications,
the Appeal Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant
factors, all standards specified in other sections of this chapter and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally-dependent facility;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets and bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   ...ILLEGIBLE TEXT... “minimum necessary” to afford relief
considering the flood hazard. MINIMUM NECESSARY means to afford relief with a
minimum of deviation from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the
case of variances to an elevation requirement, this means the City Council need
not grant permission for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever
elevation the applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City
Council believes will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the
local ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the “minimum necessary” to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. In the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be
made that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not
destroy the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in the definition
section under “public safety and nuisance”), cause fraud or victimization of
the public (as defined in § 152.05 of this chapter) or conflict with existing
local laws or ordinances.
      (5)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (6)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
      (7)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally-dependent use; provided that, the provisions of divisions (D)(1)
through (D)(11) above are satisfied and that the structure or other development
is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
does not result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a
public nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification.
      (1)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the City Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of “historic structures” (see definition) upon determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (H)   No impact certification within the floodway. Variances shall not be
issued within any mapped or designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.40 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be ...ILLEGIBLE TEXT... accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding, and if ...ILLEGIBLE TEXT...
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction”, as contained in this chapter.
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended or replaced.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
152.07 of this chapter, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, mechanical equipment and ductwork elevated no lower
than one foot above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter
walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the
unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with
standards of division (C) below:
      (1)   In an AO Zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified;
      (2)   In an A Zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated one foot above the base flood
elevation, as determined by the community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses,
use of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, best
supportable and reasonable judgment in the event ...ILLEGIBLE TEXT... (Kentucky
Administrative Regulations) Ch. 4, Regulation 060, being 401 KAR 4:060, slides
as a part of the technical requirements for a state floodplain permit. The
applicant shall provide cross-sections for determining floodway boundaries (and
thereby base flood elevations) at any proposed construction site where FEMA
maps are not available. All cross sections shall be referenced to mean sea
level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no more than + five-tenths
(0.5) foot. Cross-sections elevations shall be taken at those points which
represent significant breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic
characteristics of the base floodplain change. Each cross-section shall extend
across the entire base floodplain and shall be in the number and at the
locations specified by the cabinet. If necessary to ensure that significant
flood damage will not occur, the cabinet may require additional cross-sections
or specific site elevations which extend beyond those needed for making routine
regulatory floodway boundary calculations;
      (3)   In all other zones, elevated one foot above the base flood
elevation. Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor including basement shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community’s Building Inspection
Department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for non-residential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (A) above or together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be flood-proofed below an elevation one foot above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment and
ductwork, elevated no lower than one foot above the level of the base flood
elevation;
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in division (A)(3) above;
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) below;
and
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basement) ...ILLEGIBLE TEXT...
for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are subject to
flooding, shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials below an elevated
one foot above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of flood water. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin
1-93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and exit
of flood water.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts or pilings (e.g.) that include fully
enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base
flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
      (3)   ...ILLEGIBLE TEXT... separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH and AE Zones on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
         (a)   On individual lots or parcels;
         (b)   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
         (c)   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
         (d)   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
         (e)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; and
         (f)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result
of a flood.
      (2)   All manufactured homes must be:
         (a)   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
         (b)   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than one foot above the
level of the base flood elevation; and
         (c)   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (3)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that the
manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, so that either the:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than one foot above the level of the base flood elevation; and
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced
...ILLEGIBLE TEXT... strength, of no less than 36 inches in height above the
highest adjacent grade.
      (4)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A,
A1-30, AO, AH and AE Zones on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
must either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for “manufactured
homes”.
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
licensed and insured in accordance with the state’s motor vehicle regulations,
is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached
additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
152.07 of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and has erosion potential, the following
provisions shall apply: prohibit encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements, and other developments unless
certification (with supporting technical data) by a registered professional
engineer is provided demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any
increase in the base flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood
discharge. If division (E) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.42 STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (UNNUMBERED A ZONES)
AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.07 of this chapter, where streams exist but where no base flood data has
been provided or where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the
following provisions apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood-proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
152.07 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.43 SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.07 of this chapter are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These
areas have flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three
feet, where a clearly defined channel does not exist and the water path of
flooding is unpredictable and determinate.
   (B)   Therefore, the following provisions apply.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or, in Zone AO, the flood depth specified
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade; and
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely flood-proofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in
Zone AO, to or above the specified flood depth, plus a minimum of one foot so
that any space below that level is water-tight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required as stated in §
152.41(B) of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.44 SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is
the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.45 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE LETTER ‘A’.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated as
‘A’, the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one foot above grade,
total openings are to be one square inch per one square foot of floor area, at
least two openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood-resistant materials below a level one foot above the
base flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.46 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical, facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated on foot or more above the level of the base flood
elevation at the site. ...ILLEGIBLE TEXT... displaced by or released into flood
waters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be ...ILLEGIBLE TEXT... citation will request a civil
monetary fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
   (D)   Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with granting of a variance or special
exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined no less than $100 or imprisoned for not more
than ten days, or both, and, in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Floodplain
Administrator from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 11-10-2008)
CHAPTER 153: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Permitted locations
   
153.03   Applicability of laws
   
153.04   Regulations incorporated by reference
   
153.05   Unoccupied mobile homes
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle, trailer or similar portable structure, with or
without its own motive power, having no integral foundation other than wheels,
jacks or skirting, and used, designed or constructed to be used as a conveyance
on the public streets and designed or constructed to permit occupancy, either
permanent or temporary, for dwelling or sleeping purposes. The term MOBILE
HOME, when applicable, includes the terms trailer, trailer coach, trailer
cabin, camper and similar terms.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any parcel of land developed, used or designated to be
used for the location, either temporary or permanent, of three or more mobile
homes, trailers, campers or similar conveyances, that is or has been approved
for such purpose and development by the local Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 153.02 PERMITTED LOCATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation to park or
occupy a mobile home in the city unless such mobile home is located in a mobile
home park, and unless exempted under §
153.05 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 9-11-2017) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 APPLICABILITY OF LAWS.
   All utility hook-ups and maintenance to any mobile home shall comply with
all applicable health regulations and all local, state and federal laws.
Failure to comply shall void and revoke any rights to use and maintain the
mobile home and shall require its immediate removal.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 9-11-2017) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 REGULATIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   Existing and future ordinances that may be applicable in any way to mobile
homes, including, but not limited to, all planning and zoning regulations and
requirements, shall be strictly complied with by all mobile home owners and are
incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 153.05 UNOCCUPIED MOBILE HOMES.
   Any existing or occupied mobile home now located on any lot or tract in the
limits of the city, other than a mobile home park, that conforms to health
regulations, utility hook-ups, maintenance requirements, relevant planning and
zoning ordinances and setback regulations, and the requirements as set out in
§§
153.02 and
153.03 of this chapter, may remain; provided, however, that, if the same is
removed or is unoccupied for a continuous period in excess of six months, the
right to maintain the mobile home on such location shall immediately cease.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Penalties for violation of this chapter shall be as set forth under §
31.26 of this code of ordinances. Each day of violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 9-11-2017)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
154.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 154.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s subdivision regulations, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 155.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s zoning regulations, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2010; Ord. 2008-04, passed 9-8-2008; Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-
8-2008; Ord. 2008-06, passed 9-8-2008; Ord. 2009-01, passed 4-13-2009; Ord.
2011-1, passed 2-14-2011; Ord. 2011-7, passed 10-10-2011; Ord. 2012-4, passed
8-13-2012; Ord. 2012-6, passed 12-10-2012; Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-12-2016)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS
         
II.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
–            9-22-1981   Annexing a tract of land containing approximately 34
                           acres, more or less, located in the county
–            5-8-1989    Intending to annex real estate known as the Lincoln
                           Hills Subdivision
                           Annexing Lots 50, 51, 52 and 53 of the proposed
92, Series 101 7-13-1992   Lincoln Hills Subdivision, Section 2, and the
                           proposed future street located between Lots 50 and
                           51
–            11-13-1995  Intending to annex real property located on U.S.
                           Highway #31E
–            7-13-1998   Intending to annex real property located on U.S.
                           Highway #31E and State Highway #61
–            11-9-1998   Intending to annex real property located at State
                           Highway #210 and Hutcherson Heights
–            1-11-1999   Intending to annex real property located at the
                           corner of West Main Street and Lincoln Parkway
–            3-13-2000   Intending to annex real property located at the
                           corner of State Highway #31E and the Lincoln Parkway
–            5-13-2002   Intending to annex real property located on the east
                           side of South Lincoln Boulevard
–            7-14-2003   Intending to annex real property located on Highway
                           #210
–            2-9-2004    Intending to annex real property located on Strange
                           Road
–            4-12-2004   Intending to annex real property located at the
                           intersection of Highway 3204 with Civils Loop
–            7-11-2005   Intending to annex real property located off of
                           Highway #31E (Lincoln Boulevard)
–            2-13-2006   Intending to annex real property located on State
                           Highway #84
–            10-9-2006   Intending to annex real property located on West
                           Main Street and Lee Oak Drive
2009-          5-11-2009   Annexing property known as the Meredith property
2009-2         5-11-2009   Annexing property known as Lincoln Hills I
2009-3         5-11-2009   Annexing property known as the Newton property
2009-4         5-11-2009   Annexing property known as Northridge Subdivision
2009-5         5-11-2009   Annexing property known as Bakkcreek
2009-6         5-11-2009   Annexing property known as Woodpark
2009-8         5-11-2009   Annexing property known as Rock Properties
2009-10        10-12-2009  Annexing real estate known as U.S. Highway #31-E R/W
2009-11        7-13-2009   Annexing property known as BP
2009-12        7-13-2009   Annexing property known as Lincoln National Bank
2009-13        7-13-2009   Annexing property known as McDonalds
2009-15        10-12-2009  Annexing real estate known as Old Sonora Road
2009-16        7-13-2009   Annexing property known as Pamida
2009-18        10-12-2009  Annexing real estate known as Lee Oak Drive
2009-19        7-13-2009   Annexing property known as Commerce Park
2009-20        7-13-2009   Annexing real estate known as Carrie B. Lots 4 and 5
2009-21        7-13-2009   Annexing property known as Carrie B. Tract B
2009-22        7-13-2009   Annexing real estate known as Lincoln Hills 4
2009-23        8-10-2009   Annexing real estate known as LaRue County Geriatric
                           Center
2009-24        12-14-2009  Annexing real property known as Tonieville Road
2009-25        8-10-2009   Annexing property known as Carrie B. Lot 3
2011-6         6-13-2011   Annexing real estate known as the LaRue County
                           Maintenance Facility
2015-03        5-11-2015   Annexing property conveyed to Lee Taylor Vickery
2017-11        11-27-2017  Annexing a portion of the Edgar C. Walker Addition
2018-07        8-30-2018   Annexing certain unincorporated territory in the
                           county
2019-10        10-4-2019   Annexing certain real property
2019-11        10-4-2019   Annexing an unincorporated territory in the county
                           described as Lee Oak Drive and East Old Sonora Road
2019-12        10-4-2019   Annexing an unincorporated territory in the county
                           located at 414 East Old Sonora Road
2019-15        11-14-2019  Annexing an unincorporated territory in the county
                           described as Steadfast Baptist Church
                           Annexing an unincorporated territory in the county
2020-03        3-9-2020    described as Lincoln Boulevard, Cumberland Family
                           Medical Center
                           Annexing an unincorporated territory in the county
2020-04        4-13-2020   described as Lincoln Farm Road and Greensburg Road
                           Parcel A
2020-05        4-13-2020   Annexing an unincorporated territory in the county
                           described as Lincoln General Store Tract #1
2020-06        4-13-2020   Annexing an unincorporated territory in the county
                           described as LaRue County Golf Course Tract #1
                           Declaring intent to annex territory located on South
2020-08        6-8-2020    Lincoln Boulevard, about 470 feet north of its
                           intersection with Lincoln Parkway
                           Annexing an unincorporated territory in the county
2020-09        4-24-2020   described as LaRue County School District Finance
                           Corporation AKA Abraham Elementary School Tract #1
                           Amending the annexation of unincorporated territory
2020-14        9-1-2020    in the county described as Lincoln Farm Road and
                           Greensburg Road Parcel A
                           Annexing an unincorporated territory in the county
2020-16        11-9-2020   described as approximately 1.3 acres of land on
                           South Lincoln Boulevard, about 470 feet north of its
                           intersection with Lincoln Parkway
                           Annexing an unincorporated territory in the county
2023-03        4-10-2023   described as Tract 1 -Kentucky Highway 1607,
                           Nationwide Uniform Corporation, containing 6.561
                           acres
                          
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2010-01  5-13-2010   Approving a lease for the financing of a specific project
                     Accepting the bid of South Central Rural Telephone
2014-02  9-8-2014    Cooperative Corporation for a 15-year non-exclusive
                     telecommunications franchise
2017-01  3-16-2017   Granting a franchise for erecting, laying and maintaining
                     electric distribution facilities and equipment
2017-14  12-11-2017  Granting a franchise for erecting, laying and maintaining
                     electric distribution facilities and equipment
                     Creating a franchise for the erection, laying and
                     maintenance of electric facilities and appurtenant
                     facilities and equipment in, along and across the public
2022-2   3-14-2022   ways, roads, streets, alleys and other public places in
                     the city: for furnishing and selling electricity by means
                     of said facilities, and providing for the sale of said
                     franchise.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section             Code Section
Ch. 13B                 112.006
18A.225                 113.03
61.080                  33.017
61.090                  33.017
61.252                  33.016
61.800 et seq.          31.19
61.810                  33.018;
                        33.074
61.815                  33.018
61.870 et seq.          33.069;
                        33.077
                        30.30;
61.870 to 61.884        33.022;
                        33.078
Ch. 64                  30.02
65.003                  33.003
65.260(2)               32.02
65.300                  32.02
65.7049                 34.01
65.7051                 34.01
65.7053                 34.01
                        31.15;
65.8801 to 65.8839      31.16;
                        31.27
65.8808                 110.99
65.8815(5)              31.19
65.8829(7)(c)2          31.25
65A.030                 31.78
67.750 through 67.795   110.30
68.100                  31.78
82.082                  33.003
82.600 et seq.          70.03
82.605                  70.03
83A.010(5)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(8)              10.02
83A.045(2)(b)           30.01
83A.065                 10.99
83A.080                 30.30;
                        33.004
83A.085                 30.30
91A.010(4)              10.02
91A.010(8)              10.02
91A.080(8)              113.05
91A.350                 31.70
91A.35 to 91A.390       31.74
91A.360                 31.71
91A.360(5)              31.78
91A.390                 31.75
91A.390(1)              31.76
92.305                  34.01
92.330                  31.76
99.705                  34.01
                        31.40;
Ch. 100                 31.45;
                        152.01
100.147                 31.41
100.157                 31.41
100.982                 111.02
Ch. 136                 34.02
136.320                 113.03
Ch. 151                 152.05
151.250                 152.06
Ch. 154A                112.047
186.042                 70.03
186.456                 70.03
189.725                 70.03
Ch. 218A                112.047
Ch. 238                 112.047
                        112.006;
Ch. 241 to Ch. 244      112.047;
                        112.080;
                        112.081
                        112.002;
Ch. 241 through Ch. 244 112.003;
                        112.005
241.010                 112.076
241.010(37)             112.022
241.100                 112.006
241.160                 112.006
241.170                 112.006
241.200                 112.047;
                        112.048
Ch. 243                 112.022;
                        112.081
243.030                 112.047
243.036                 112.047
243.040                 112.047
243.070                 112.020
243.075                 112.021
243.090                 112.023
243.260                 112.022 ,
                        112.086
243.450                 112.048
243.480                 112.999
243.490                 112.048
243.500                 112.048
243.550                 112.047;
                        112.048
243.895                 112.074
244.050                 112.081
244.085                 112.080
244.085(5)              112.080
244.090                 112.076;
                        112.080
244.090(2)              112.076
244.130                 112.084
244.500                 112.069
Ch. 304                 113.01
Ch. 304, Subtitle 10    113.01
304.38-060              113.03
304.49-010              113.03
Ch. 342                 117.03
Ch. 350                 152.05
Ch. 424                 151.03
424.120                 112.040
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(23)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.010(55)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03
446.020(2)              10.03
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03
446.080(3)              10.03
446.080(4)              10.03
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
511.080                 112.081
534.040(2)(c)           10.99
                        
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2019 Code
Prior Code 2019 Code
1.04.010   10.02
2.04.010   30.15
2.08.010   30.30
2.08.020   30.30
2.08.030   30.30
2.08.040   30.30
2.08.050   30.30
2.08.060   30.30
2.16.010   30.32
2.20.010   31.40
2.20.020   31.41
2.20.030   31.42
2.20.040   31.43
2.20.050   31.44
2.20.060   31.45
2.24.010   31.60
2.24.020   31.61
2.24.030   31.62
2.24.040   31.63
2.24.050   31.64
2.24.060   31.65
2.24.070   31.66
2.28.010   32.02
2.28.020   32.02
2.28.030   32.02
2.28.040   32.02
2.28.050   32.02
2.32.010   32.01
2.32.020   32.01
5.12.010   34.04
5.12.020   34.04
5.12.030   34.04
8.04.010   94.01
8.04.020   94.02
8.04.030   94.03
8.04.040   94.04
8.04.050   94.05
8.04.060   94.06
8.04.070   94.07
8.04.080   94.08
8.04.090   94.09
8.04.100   94.10;
           94.99
8.04.110   94.11
8.04.120   94.99
8.08.010   50.01
8.08.020   50.02
8.08.030   50.03
8.08.040   50.04
8.08.050   50.05
8.08.060   50.06
8.08.070   50.07
8.08.080   50.99
9.04.010   130.02
9.04.020   130.99
9.08.010   130.03
9.08.020   130.99
9.12.010   92.01
9.12.020   92.02
9.12.030   92.03
9.12.040   92.03
9.12.050   92.04
9.12.060   92.04
9.12.070   92.04
9.12.080   92.04
9.12.090   92.04
9.12.100   92.05
9.12.110   92.05
9.12.120   92.05
9.12.130   92.05
9.12.140   92.06
9.16.010   92.20
9.16.020   92.21
9.16.030   92.22
10.04.010  70.02
15.04.010  150.01
15.04.020  150.99
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.       Date Passed Code Section
                           94.01—
–            - -         94.11;
                           94.99
–            12-29-1961  34.04
–            11-1-1966   31.40—
                           31.45
                           50.01—
–            12-29-1966  50.07;
                           50.99
–            9-10-1968   130.03;
                           130.99
–            9-9-1969    130.02;
                           130.99
–            12-14-1971  70.02
–            1-14-1975   150.01;
                           150.99
–            3-9-1976    31.60—
                           31.66
                           92.01—
–            3-9-1976    92.06;
                           92.99
–            9-22-1981   TSO Table I
–            12-12-1983  30.30
–            7-23-1984   30.15
–            9-10-1984   92.20—
                           92.22
–            8-11-1986   32.01
–            6-8-1987    32.02
–            5-8-1989    TSO Table I
1, 1991 Series 3-11-1991   70.01;
                           70.99
91-3           - -1991     30.30
92, Series 101 7-13-1992   TSO Table I
                           116.01—
–            4-10-1995   116.04;
                           116.99
–            11-13-1995  TSO Table I
98-5           5-11-1998   115.01—
                           115.04
98-68          6-8-1998    150.30—
                           150.33
–            7-13-1998   TSO Table I
–            11-9-1998   TSO Table I
–            1-11-1999   TSO Table I
–            3-13-2000   TSO Table I
2000-9-11      9-11-2000   30.01
–            5-13-2002   TSO Table I
–            7-14-2003   TSO Table I
                           150.15—
18             7-14-2003   150.18;
                           150.99
–            2-9-2004    TSO Table I
                           151.01—
                           151.03;
–            3-8-2004    151.15—
                           151.22;
                           151.99
–            4-12-2004   TSO Table I
–            7-11-2005   TSO Table I
12-05-01       12-12-2005  32.01
–            2-13-2006   TSO Table I
–            10-9-2006   TSO Table I
2008-04        9-8-2008    155.01
2008-05        9-8-2008    155.01
2008-06        9-8-2008    155.01
                           152.01—
                           152.12;
                           152.25—
2008-7         11-10-2008  152.27;
                           152.40—
                           152.46;
                           152.99
2009-01        4-13-2009   155.01
2009-          5-11-2009   TSO Table I
2009-2         5-11-2009   TSO Table I
2009-3         5-11-2009   TSO Table I
2009-4         5-11-2009   TSO Table I
2009-5         5-11-2009   TSO Table I
2009-6         5-11-2009   TSO Table I
2009-8         5-11-2009   TSO Table I
2009-11        7-13-2009   TSO Table I
2009-12        7-13-2009   TSO Table I
2009-13        7-13-2009   TSO Table I
2009-16        7-13-2009   TSO Table I
2009-19        7-13-2009   TSO Table I
2009-20        7-13-2009   TSO Table I
2009-21        7-13-2009   TSO Table I
2009-22        7-13-2009   TSO Table I
2009-23        8-10-2009   TSO Table I
2009-25        8-10-2009   TSO Table I
2009-10        10-12-2009  TSO Table I
2009-15        10-12-2009  TSO Table I
2009-18        10-12-2009  TSO Table I
2009-24        12-14-2009  TSO Table I
–            5-10-2010   155.01
2010-01        5-13-2010   TSO Table II
2011-1         2-14-2011   155.01
2011-6         6-13-2011   TSO Table I
2011-7         10-10-2011  155.01
                           91.01—
2011-9         11-14-2011  91.03;
                           91.99
                           114.01—
2012-3         8-13-2012   114.03;
                           114.99
2012-4         8-13-2012   155.01
2012-6         12-10-2012  155.01
                           52.001—
                           52.003;
                           52.015—
                           52.019;
                           52.030;
                           52.031;
                           52.045—
                           52.048;
                           52.060—
2014-01        6-9-2014    52.068;
                           52.080—
                           52.096;
                           52.110;
                           52.111;
                           52.125—
                           52.128;
                           52.140—
                           52.144;
                           52.999
2014-02        9-8-2014    TSO Table II
                           33.001—
                           33.004;
                           33.015—
                           33.032;
2015-01        5-11-2015   33.045—
                           33.050;
                           33.065—
                           33.078;
                           33.999
2015-02        - -2015     32.01
2015-03        5-11-2015   TSO Table I
2015-06        6-8-2015    32.01
2015-05        6-11-2015   32.01
2015-08        6-11-2015   34.02
2015-10        6-11-2015   32.01
2016-02        2-16-2016   113.01—
                           113.05
2016-03        4-11-2016   30.31
                           90.01—
2016-06        9-12-2016   90.09;
                           90.99
2016-08        12-12-2016  155.01
2017-01        3-16-2017   TSO Table II
2017-02        6-12-2017   51.43
2017-03        6-12-2017   51.42
2017-05        8-14-2017   31.15—
                           31.29
                           153.01—
2017-06        9-11-2017   153.05;
                           153.99
2017-08        10-9-2017   130.01;
                           130.99
2017-09        10-9-2017   34.01
                           35.01—
2017-10        11-13-2017  35.05;
                           35.99
2017-11        11-27-2017  TSO Table I
                           110.01—
                           110.14;
2017-12        12-11-2017  110.25—
                           110.41;
                           110.99
                           111.01—
2017-13        12-11-2017  111.05;
                           111.99
2017-14        12-11-2017  TSO Table II
2018-1         2-12-2018   31.01—
                           31.04
2018-2         4-19-2018   30.16
2018-3         4-19-2018   30.32
                           112.001—
                           112.008;
                           112.020—
                           112.025;
2018-04        5-29-2018   112.040—
                           112.050;
                           112.065—
                           112.085;
                           112.999
                           50.20—
2018-05        6-11-2018   50.24;
                           50.99
2018-07        8-30-2018   TSO Table I
2019-01        4-9-2019    51.01—
                           51.22
2019-02        4-9-2019    51.35—
                           51.41
2019-04        5-21-2019   34.03
                           116.01—
2019-07        8-2-2019    116.04;
                           116.99
2019-9         10-4-2019   30.15
2019-10        10-4-2019   TSO Table I
2019-11        10-4-2019   TSO Table I
2019-12        10-4-2019   TSO Table I
2019-13        10-17-2019  30.15
2019-15        11-14-2019  TSO Table I
2020-01        1-14-2020   51.42
2020-03        3-9-2020    TSO Table I
2020-04        4-13-2020   TSO Table I
2020-05        4-13-2020   TSO Table I
2020-06        4-13-2020   TSO Table I
                           95.01—
2020-07        4-23-2020   95.14,
                           95.99
2020-08        6-8-2020    TSO Table I
2020-09        4-24-2020   TSO Table I
                           110.01—
                           110.14,
2020-11        6-22-2020   110.25—
                           110.41,
                           110.99
2020-14        9-1-2020    TSO Table I
2020-16        11-9-2020   TSO Table I
2021-1         4-12-2021   51.44
                           70.03—
2021-2         4-15-2021   70.05,
                           70.99
2021-3         5-10-2021   31.19
2021-7         9-16-2021   31.19
2021-8         9-16-2021   31.16
2021-9         12-13-2021  31.30
2021-10        12-13-2021  90.06
2022-1         2-14-2022   112.006
2022-2         3-14-2022   TSO Table II
2022-3         5-11-2022   112.086
2022-06        7–11-2022 112.076
2022-07        9-16-2022   112.087
2022-09        12-16-2022  117.01—
                           117.05
2022-10        12-16-2022  30.02
2023-02        4-10-2023   31.70—
                           31.78
2023-03        4-10-2023   TSO Table I
2023-05        5-16-2023   112.087
                          
 
 
