CITY OF HURSTBOURNE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-12 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 25-03, passed 5-13-25
State legislation current through 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NUMBER 89-4
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HURSTBOURNE, KENTUCKY ENACTING AND ADOPTING A
SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF HURSTBOURNE, KENTUCKY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Hurstbourne, which supplements and contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the adoption of the original Code of Ordinances; and,
WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and,
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Commission to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Kentucky.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE
   CITY OF HURSTBOURNE:
   Section 1. That the first supplement the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Hurstbourne, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its
entirety.
   Section 2. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon its
passage, approval and publication in accordance with applicable law.
   INTRODUCED, SECONDED AND GIVEN FIRST READING, at a duly convened meeting of
the City Commission of the City of Hurstbourne, Kentucky, held on the 11th day
of August, 1989.
   INTRODUCED, SECONDED AND GIVEN SECOND READING, at a duly convened meeting of
the City Commission of the City of Hurstbourne, Kentucky, held on the 8th day
of September, 1989.
   David L. Beckman, Sr. /s/
   Mayor
Attest:
/s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NUMBER 91-01
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HURSTBOURNE, KENTUCKY ENACTING AND ADOPTING A
SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF HURSTBOURNE, KENTUCKY.
WHEREAS, the City Commission of the City of Hurstbourne has received and
reviewed the 1990 S-2 Supplement to the City Code of Ordinances as prepared by
the American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, which supplement
contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the prior supplement
to the Code of Ordinances; and,
WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and,
WHEREAS, such supplement to the Code of Ordinances is accepted as a proper
update,
    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE
   CITY OF HURSTBOURNE:
   Section 1. That the 1990 S-2 Supplement the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Hurstbourne, Kentucky, as submitted by the American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if
set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. This Ordinance shall take effect upon its passage, approval and
publication as required by law.
   Introduced and first reading held January 11, 1991.
   PASSED AND APPROVED February 8, 1991.
   C. R. Ballard /s/
   Mayor
Attest:
Joseph Schweinhart /s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NUMBER 08-02-01
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE
   CODE OF ORDINANCES
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the sixth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Hurstbourne, Kentucky, which contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing has recommended the revision or addition of
certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or make reference
to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Commission to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COMMISSION
   Section 1. That the sixth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Hurstbourne, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   Introduced with first reading on April 22, 2008.
   Adopted on May 13, 2008.
Robert English /s/
Robert English, Mayor
Date:  05/13/08
Ronald J. Howard /s/
Ronald J. Howard, City Clerk
Date:  05/13/08
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Hurstbourne Code, for which designation "codified ordinances" or "code" may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code. (KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (1)   "ACTION." Includes all proceedings in any court of this state. (KRS
446.010 (1))
   (2)   "AND." May be read "OR," and "OR" may be read "AND," if the sense
requires it.
   (3)   "ANIMAL." Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human
being. (KRS 446.010 (2))
   (4)   “CITY,” “MUNICIPAL CORPORATION,” or “MUNICIPALITY.” When used in this
code shall denote the City of Hurstbourne irrespective of its population or
legal classification.
   (5)   “COMMISSION.” The City Commission. (KRS 83A.010 (3))
   (6)   “COMPANY.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
person, partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010 (9))
   (7)   “CORPORATION.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010 (10))
   (8)   “COUNTY.” Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   (9)   “CRUELTY.” As applied to animals, includes every act or omission
whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or
permitted. (KRS 446.010 (12))
   (10)   “DIRECTORS.” When applied to corporations, includes managers or
trustees. (KRS 446.010 (13))
   (11)   “DOMESTIC.” When applied to a corporation, partnership, business
trust, or limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by
authority of this state. (KRS 446.010 (14))
   (12)   “DOMESTIC ANIMAL.” Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS
446.010 (15))
   (13)   “EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY.” The Commission. (KRS 83A.010 (6))
   (14)   “FEDERAL.” Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010 (17))
   (15)   “FOREIGN.” When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited
partnership, business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company,
includes all those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010 (18))
   (16)   “KEEPER” or “PROPRIETOR.” Includes all persons, whether acting by
themselves or as a servant, agent, or employee.
   (17)   “KRS.” Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (18)   “LAND” or “REAL ESTATE.” Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments
and all rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010 (23))
   (19)   “LEGISLATIVE BODY.” The City Commission. (KRS 91a.010 (8))
   (20)   “LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER.” A City Commissioner. (KRS 83A.010 (8))
   (21)   “LIVESTOCK.” Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas,
buffaloes, or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine,
or camelid species. (KRS 446.010(25))
   (22)   “MAY.” The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010 (26))
   (23)   “MONTH.” Calendar month. (KRS 446.010 (27))
   (24)   “MUNICIPALITY.” The City of Hurstbourne, Kentucky.
   (25)   “OATH.” Includes “AFFIRMATION” in all cases in which an affirmation
may be substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010 (28))
   (26)   “PARTNERSHIP.” Includes both general and limited partnerships. (KRS
446.010 (30))
   (27)   “PEACE OFFICER.” Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests. (KRS 446.010 (31))
   (28)   “PERSON.” May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships,
registered limited liability partnerships, joint stock companies, and limited
liability companies. (KRS 446.010 (33))
   (29)   “PERSONAL PROPERTY.” Includes all property except real.
   (30)   “PREMISES.” As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   (31)   “PROPERTY.” Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   (32)   “PUBLIC AUTHORITY.” Includes boards of education; the municipal,
county, state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any
duly authorized public official.
   (33)   “PUBLIC PLACE.” Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school
yard, body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for
the sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   (34)   “REAL PROPERTY.” Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   (35)   “REGULAR ELECTION.” The election in even numbered years at which
members of Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which
state officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010 (37))
   (36)   “SHALL.” The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.010 (39))
   (37)   “SWORN.” Includes “AFFIRMED” in all cases in which an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010 (43))
   (38)   “SIDEWALK.” That portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   (39)   “STATE.” The State of Kentucky.
   (40)   “STREET.” Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads,
highways, viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   (41)   “SUBCHAPTER.” A division of a chapter, designated in this code by an
underlined heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the
body of the chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject
matter of the heading. Not all chapters have subchapters.
   (42)   “TENANT” or “OCCUPANT.” As applied to premises, includes any person
holding a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part
of such premises, alone or with others.
   (43)   “VACANCY IN OFFICE.” Such as exists when there is an unexpired part
of a term of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person
elected or appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when
there has been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it
applies whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from
the state, county, city, or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010 (46))
   (44)   “VIOLATE.” Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010 (47))
   (45)   “YEAR.” Calendar year. (KRS 446.010 (49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things. (KRS
446.020 (1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males. (KRS 446.020 (2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of City
Commission. (KRS 446.080 (1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared. (KRS 446.080 (3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning. (KRS 446.080 (4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons. (KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of City Commission in enacting
any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that City
Commission would not have enacted the remaining parts without the
unconstitutional part, or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are
incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of
City Commission.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of City Commission.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of City Commission as long as it takes effect prior to the
effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
City Commission which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of City Commission as long as
the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of City Commission repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Commission, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall
remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until City Commission shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a "statutory reference" following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 31.10 MAYOR.
   The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised by the
Mayor.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
         For powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense;
provided, however, that in the event the penalty fixed by state statute for the
same unlawful conduct is greater, such state statute shall apply.
                    
Cross-reference:
   Civil penalties for violation of city ordinances, see §
39.01
Statutory reference:
   Fine amount for ordinance violation authorized by state law, see KRS 83A.065
and 535.040
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
         
30.   COMMISSION PLAN
         
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
         
32.   CITY COMMISSION
         
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
         
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
         
35.   DEPARTMENTS
         
36.   (RESERVED)
         
37.   PERSONNEL POLICY
         
38.   ETHICS CODE
            
APPENDIX A: FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT
         
39.   GENERAL POLICIES
         
40.   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
CHAPTER 30: COMMISSION PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Administration and form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 ADMINISTRATION AND FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The government of the city shall be administered in the manner prescribed by
KRS Chapter 83A, other applicable provisions of the Constitution and statutes,
and the provisions of this title III. Pursuant to court proceedings held in
accordance with KRS 81.050, the city shall be governed by the commission plan
of government as set forth in KRS 83A.140.
('82 Code, § 1.1) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-82)
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected officer who shall be called
Mayor and by elected legislative body members who shall be called City
Commissioners and which together shall be known as the City Commission and by
such other officers and employees as may be provided for by statute or city
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.140 (2)) ('82 Code, § 1.2(a)) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-82)
   (B)   The City Commission shall be composed of the Mayor and four
Commissioners.
(KRS 83A.030 (2))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Defense and indemnification of city officers and employees
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem
   
31.22   Commissioners
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk/City Administrative Officer
   
31.37   City Attorney
   
31.38   City Treasurer
   
31.39   (Reserved)
   
31.40   Citation Officers
Employees
   
31.50   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
Cross-reference:
   Personnel policies, see
Chapter 37
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: "I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of , according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that,
since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen of this
United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this State,
nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with
deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided
or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God", as established by
section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification. Certification of the person administering the oath of
office to an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath was
administered and the date of its administration. Said certification shall be
filed in accordance with KRS 62.020.
   (C)   Bond. All city employees shall, before entering upon the duties of
their respective offices, be covered by a bond in the penal sum of $10,000, or
such other sum as may be fixed by the City Commission which bond may be a
blanket bond covering other city officials. ('82 Code, § 1.7(d))
____________________
Statutory reference:
   Local government officials' bonds, see KRS 65.067
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every
elected city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in
which the officer is elected. An elected officer's compensation shall not be
changed after his election or during his term of office.
      (1)   The compensation of the Mayor is hereby fixed at a sum to be
determined from time to time, payable monthly.
      (2)   The compensation of each City Commissioner is hereby fixed at a sum
to be determined from time to time, payable monthly.
      (3)   The amount of compensation shall be recomputed annually under the
"rubber dollar" theory, effective January 1, of each year, beginning January 1,
2005, based on the percentage increase as determined by the Commonwealth of
Kentucky Department of Local Government (or its successor entity) from the
previous year.
   (B)   The Commission shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The Commission shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(Am. Ord. 04-04, passed 4-13-04; Am. Ord. 20-03, Series 2020, passed 4-14-20;
Am. Ord. 22-04, Series 2022, passed 4-12-22)
                    
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the Commission
exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the deliberation
of his removal. No elected officer shall be removed without having been given
the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the right to
appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on the
record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before the
expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Commission at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
                    
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
§ 31.04 DEFENSE AND INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   For purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning:
      (1)   "ACTION IN TORT." Any claim for monetary damages based upon
negligence, intentional tort, nuisance, products liability, and strict
liability, and shall also include any wrongful death or survival-type action.
      (2)   "EMPLOYEE." All full- and part-time employees of the city, but
shall not include any independent contractor or any employee, agent, supplier,
or subcontractor of any independent contractor.
      (3)   "OFFICER." Any elected official of the city, the City Clerk/City
Administrative Officer, City Treasurer, City Attorney, and City Engineer.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (E) below, the city shall, without cost
to the officer or employee, provide for the legal defense of any officer or
employee, in any action in tort arising out of an act or omission occurring
within the scope of the officer's or employee's employment or public duties
with the city.
   (C)   The city may provide for the defense of any officer or employee
through its own legal counsel, by employing independent legal counsel, or by
purchasing insurance which requires the insurer to defend. If the city defends
through its own legal counsel and its legal counsel determines that the
interests of the officer or employee and the city conflict, the city shall
obtain the written consent of the officer or employee for such representation.
An officer or employee may have his own legal counsel to assist in the defense
at the expense of the officer or employee.
   (D)   Upon receiving service of a summons and complaint in any action in
tort brought against him, an officer or employee shall, within ten days of his
receipt of service, give written notice of the claim and make a request that
the city provide a defense to the action. The notice of claim and request for
defense shall be filed with the Mayor.
   (E)   The city may refuse to provide for the defense of any action in tort
brought against an officer or employee of the city if it determines and
notifies the officer or employee in writing that:
      (1)   The act or omission was not within the actual or apparent scope of
the officer's duties or employee's employment;
      (2)   The officer or employee acted or failed to act because of fraud,
malice, or corruption; or
      (3)   A timely request to defend was not made in accordance with division
(D) above.
   (F)   If the city refuses to provide an officer or employee with a defense
and the officer or employee provides his own defense, the officer or employee
shall be entitled to recover all necessary and reasonable costs of the defense
from the city if the act or omission is judicially determined to have arisen
out of the actual or apparent scope of the officer's duties or the employee's
employment and the officer or employee is found to have acted without fraud,
malice, or corruption.
   (G)   Subject to the limitations set forth in division (H) below, and
provided that the city shall not pay any award of punitive or exemplary
damages, the city shall pay any judgment rendered against an officer or
employee in any action in tort, or any compromise or settlement of such action.
   (H)   The city may refuse to pay any judgment, compromise, or settlement in
any action in tort against an officer or employee, or if the city pays any
judgment, compromise, or settlement, it may recover from the officer or
employee the amount of such payment and the costs to defend, if:
      (1)   The officer or employee acted or failed to act because of fraud,
malice, or corruption;
      (2)   The action was outside the actual or apparent scope of the
officer's duties or the employee's employment;
      (3)   The officer or employee willfully failed or refused to assist the
defense of the action; or
      (4)   The officer or employee compromised or settled the claim without
the consent of the City Commission.
   (I)   An officer or employee who is being provided a defense in an action in
tort or contract by the city shall not enter into any compromise or settlement
of the action without the approval of the City Commission.
   (J)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as a waiver of any defense
which the city may assert in any action in tort brought against it or any
officer or employee of the city. Defense by the city of any action shall not be
deemed an admission by the city that the acts of the officer or employee were
within the actual or apparent scope and course of such person's office or
duties.
(Ord. 86-2, passed 2-14-86)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Mayor and the Commissioners shall be elected at-large in
accordance with the provisions for nonpartisan elections set forth in KRS
83A.170 and 83A.175 beginning with the primary election prescribed by law for
election year 1983. ('82 Code, § 1.2(b)) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-82)
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers as
authorized by KRS 83A.050(2), except that no change shall be made earlier than
five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and Commissioners may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
   (H)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.045(2)(b), the city elects to forego conducting a
nonpartisan primary election for the nomination of candidates to city office,
regardless of the number of candidates running for each office; and requires
all candidates to file a nominating petition with the County Clerk as provided
by KRS Chapter 118. (Ord. 91-03, passed 3-19-91)
                    
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(2), (3), (4), (5)
§ 31.21 MAYOR; MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office begins on the first day of January following his or
her election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor
qualifies. If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a
vacancy and serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service
shall not be considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the Commission
shall fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
office of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor
shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall
serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(2),(6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Commission may vote for himself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(b))
      (2)   When voting to fill the vacancy created by a resignation of a Mayor
the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a resignation
date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation may be submitted
through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s electronic mail
address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation
shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City
Commission occurring after the date specified in the written letter of
resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the legislative body occurring on or after its receipt. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs which is required by law to be filled
temporarily by appointment, the City Commission shall immediately notify in
writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy. (KRS
83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Commission shall elect from among its members an
individual to preside over meetings of the City Commission during any vacancy
in the office of Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to
83A.150. (KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D) Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may
vote in all proceedings.
      (2)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
authorized by ordinance or resolution shall be executed by the Mayor on behalf
of the city.
(‘82 Code, § 1.4) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-82)
   (E)   Mayor Pro Tem.
      (1)   The Commission shall designate one City Commissioner to serve as
Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem shall act for the Mayor whenever the Mayor is
unable to attend to the duties of his office and he shall then possess all
rights, powers, and duties of Mayor.
      (2)   If the disability of the Mayor to attend to his duties continues
for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared vacant by a
majority vote of the Commission membership, and the provisions of division (C)
above shall apply.
(‘82 Code, § 1.4) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-82)
                    
Statutory reference:
   Mayor pro tem, see KRS 83A.140(4)
   Powers and duties, see KRS 83A.140(4)
§ 31.22 COMMISSIONERS.
   For provisions concerning the City Commission, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
   (B)   All nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Commission.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Commission at will
unless otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk/City Administrative Officer;
      (2)   City Attorney;
      (3)   City Treasurer.
                    
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1),(2),(3)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK/CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of City Clerk/City Administrative
Officer who shall have the duties and responsibilities as set forth in KRS
83A.085 as well as those set forth in KRS 83A.090, and 241.160. Any reference
to City Clerk, City Administrative Officer, CAO, or City Alcoholic Beverage
Control Administrator shall mean the City Clerk/City Administrative Officer.
   (B)   The City Clerk/City Administrative Officer shall meet the
qualifications and carry out the duties and responsibilities set forth herein,
and in any related job description. The City Clerk/City Administrative Officer
shall keep minutes of the proceedings of the Commission, and shall perform such
other duties as are prescribed by law or ordinance, or as may from time to time
be delegated by the City Commission by ordinance or municipal order.
   (C)   The City Clerk/City Administrative Officer shall specifically maintain
the following records:
      (1)   Ordinance book, which shall contain all ordinances by number and
series, including, but not limited to, all ordinances concerning
appropriations, budgets, tax rates, levies, as well as general, regulatory, and
penal ordinances;
      (2)   Codified ordinance book;
      (3)   Municipal order book (which shall contain all municipal orders and
resolutions adopted by the Commission);
      (4)   Minute book, which shall contain the official transcription of the
minutes of the City Commission meeting; and
      (5)   Index appropriate to each of the above books.
   (D)   The City Clerk/City Administrative Officer shall take the oath
prescribed by Kentucky Constitution, Section 228. The City Clerk/City
Administrative Officer shall, before entering upon the duties of his office, be
covered by a bond in the penal sum of $10,000, or such other sum as may be
fixed by the City Commission which bond may be a blanket bond covering other
city officials.
   (E)   The City Clerk/City Administrative Officer shall receive such
compensation as may be fixed by ordinance.
('82 Code, § 1.7(a),(d),(e)) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-82; Am. Ord. 13-83,
passed 12-9-83; Am. Ord. 86-9, passed 5-9-86; Am. Ord. 86-11, passed 6-13-86;
Am. Ord. 97-07, passed 7-28-97; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 2-11-98)
                
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, see §
111.01
§ 31.37 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of City Attorney, who shall advise
and counsel other city officers, be the city's advocate, and have such other
powers and duties as may be prescribed by order or ordinance.
   (B)   The City Attorney shall take the oath prescribed by Kentucky
Constitution, Section 228. The City Attorney shall, before entering upon the
duties of his office, be covered by a bond in the penal sum of $10,000, or such
other sum as may be fixed by the City Commission which bond may be a blanket
bond covering other city officials.
   (C)   The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as may be fixed by
ordinance.
   (D)   The city may retain the services of a qualified attorney as attorney
for the city, and pay reasonable compensation as determined by the City
Commission in lieu of appointing a City Attorney. In the event such an attorney
is retained, all references herein to the City Attorney shall mean attorney for
the city.
('82 Code, § 1.7(c),(d),(e)) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-82; Am. Ord. 13-83,
passed 12-9-83; Am. Ord. 86-9, passed 5-9-86; Am. Ord. 86-11, passed 6-13-86)
§ 31.38 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of City Treasurer, who shall be the
chief financial officer of the city, responsible for assisting the City Clerk/
City Administrative Officer in preparing the budget and accounting for all city
monies and any other duties prescribed by law.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall take the oath prescribed by Kentucky
Constitution, Section 228. The City Treasurer shall, before entering upon the
duties of his office, be covered by a bond in the penal sum of $10,000, or such
other sum as may be fixed by the City Commission which bond may be a blanket
bond covering other city officials.
   (C)   The City Treasurer shall receive such compensation as may be fixed by
ordinance.
('82 Code, § 1.7(b),(d),(e)) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-82; Am. Ord. 13-83,
passed 12-9-83; Am. Ord. 86-9, passed 5-9-86; Am. Ord. 86-11, passed 6-13-86)
§ 31.39 (RESERVED).
§ 31.40 CITATION OFFICERS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a non-elected city office to be known as
citation officer.
   (B)   No person shall be appointed as a citation officer unless he or she
is:
      (1)   At least 21 years of age;
      (2)   Is a high school graduate or has received a General Equivalency
Diploma (G.E.D.);
      (3)   Is sober, moral, and sagacious; and
      (4)   No person who has been convicted of a felony is eligible for
appointment.
   (C)   Before entering upon his/her duties of office, a citation officer
shall take the oath as prescribed by Kentucky Constitution, Section 228.
   (D)   If required by the City Commission, a bond in such amount as may be
fixed by the City Commission, shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (E)   The office or position shall be deemed a part time employment, and the
compensation shall be not less than $5 per hour nor more than $15 per hour.
   (F)   The appointment shall be made by the City Commission. The Citation
Officer shall serve at the pleasure of the City Commission. The Citation
Officer shall file a monthly report with the City Commission on the first day
of each month reporting on activities for the previous month. The City
Commission may delegate to a commission member the superintendence over the
Citation Officer.
   (G)   The Citation Officer shall not have the powers of peace officers to
make arrests or to carry deadly weapons, but may issue citations, unless
otherwise restricted by the City Commission, upon observance of:
      (1)   Non-moving motor vehicle offenses.
      (2)   Violations of ordinances except for moving motor vehicle offenses
and except for offenses which constitute a violation of the Kentucky Penal
Code.
      (3)   Any other duties prescribed by the City Commission and not contrary
to law.
   (H)   The procedure for citations issued by a Citation Officer shall be as
provided in KRS 431.015.
   (I)   Nothing contained in this section shall limit the power of a citation
officer to make an arrest as a private person as provided in KRS 431.005.
   (J)   Acting under an interlocal cooperation act agreement, the city may
jointly appoint a Citation Officer with another party to the agreement.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 12-16-94)
CITY EMPLOYEES
§ 31.50 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   For provisions concerning the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, see
§
111.01.
CHAPTER 32: CITY COMMISSION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Approval of minutes
   
32.23   Quorum
   
32.24   Presiding officer
   
32.25   Voting
   
32.26   Time of submitting documents
   
32.27   Special provisions for discussion at Commission meetings
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.40   Official city records
   
32.41   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.42   Publication requirements
   
32.43   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.44   Periodic review required
   
32.45   Municipal orders
   
32.46   Proved by City Clerk/City Administrative Officer; received in evidence
   
32.47   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Commissioner shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for City
Commission shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to
his election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following his
election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his term
of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4),(5))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on the Commission occur in a way
that one or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30
days fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable
notice of his selection as will enable him to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this section. (KRS
83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Commission shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Commission
occurring after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. (KRS
83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs which is required by law to be filled
temporarily by appointment, the City Commission shall immediately notify in
writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy. (KRS
83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
Commission is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   All legislative, executive, and administrative authority of the city
is hereby vested in and exercised by the Commission. The Commission shall
enforce the Commission Plan, ordinances and orders of the city, and all
applicable statutes.
      (1)   The Commission shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (2)   The Commission shall supervise all departments of city government
and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its jurisdiction and
may require each department to make such reports to it as it finds necessary.
      (3)   The Commission shall report to the public on the condition and
needs of the city government as provided by ordinance, but not less than
annually.
(KRS 83A.140 (3)) ('82 Code, § 1.3) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-82)
   (B)   In carrying out its duty to supervise the departments of city
government and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its
jurisdiction, the Commission may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his
official duties. (KRS 83A.140(5)) ('82 Code, § 1.5) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-
82)
   (C)   The Commission shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety, and welfare. (KRS 83A.140(8))
   (D)   The Commission shall promulgate procedures to insure orderly
administration of the functions of city government and compliance with statute,
ordinance, or order. (KRS 83A.140(8))
   (E)   The Commission shall by ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate such funds in a budget which
shall provide for the orderly management of the city's resources. (KRS 83A.140
(8))
   (F)   The Commission shall appoint a Commissioner to supervise and manage
each of its four city departments. Such appointments shall be made at the first
commission meeting in January of each year. The duties of each Commissioner
shall be as set out in
Chapter 35.
   (G)   Each Commissioner will prepare a detailed department budget for
Commission approval, as part of the city’s normal yearly budgeting for the
fiscal year. Such department budget must be sufficiently detailed to identify
the specific expense categories. Usual and customary maintenance and repair
requirements within the approved budget will be carried out by the assigned
commissioner without approval of the full Commission. Activities beyond the
scope of usual and customary maintenance and repair require full Commission
approval, prior to expending funds or taking action. Commissioners will take no
actions outside of their assigned duties, further described in Chapter 35
herein. If a Commissioner believes such action is required, the responsible
commissioner shall be contacted for action. If there is a dispute about
required action, the matter shall be settled by vote of the Commission.
   (H)   Actions requiring Commission approval must be evidenced by a detailed
municipal order, which includes sufficient information from which a
Commissioner can determine: (a) what specific action is proposed; and (b) why
the proposed action is needed. Prior to consideration, any municipal order must
have had review by the CAO and the attorney for the city as to form and
language. Further, before action may be taken on any municipal order, such
drafting and review must be complete in time for the municipal Order to be
numbered and placed in the City Commissioners’ booklets in time for their
normal distribution to each Commissioner, prior to the Commission meeting. The
above prior notice may be suspended for good cause by motion of the Commission.
(Am. Ord. 12-05, passed 9-25-12; Am. Ord. 13-07, passed 10-8-13)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may vote in
all proceedings. (KRS 83A.140(4))
                
Cross-reference:
   Vacancy in office of Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem, see §
31.21(C), (E)
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Commission will be held on the second and the
fourth Tuesday of every month at 4:30 p.m. at the city offices located at 304
Whittington Parkway, Suite 100, Hurstbourne, Kentucky, if not a legal holiday,
or if a legal holiday, on the following Tuesday that is not a legal holiday.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or two City Commissioners.
In the call, the Mayor or City Commissioners shall designate the purpose, time,
and place of the special meeting with sufficient notice for the attendance of
Commission members and for compliance with KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the City Clerk/City
Administrative Officer and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.140(7)) ('82 Code, § 1.8(b)) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-82; Am. Ord. 6-
1983, passed 11-20-82; Am. Ord. 91-02, passed 2-8-91; Am. Ord. 91-05, passed 4-
16-91; Am. Ord. 94-02, passed 1-21-94; Am. Ord. 95-02, passed 5-8-95; Am. Ord.
98-07, passed 10-12-98; Am. Ord. 06-04, passed 12-12-06)
   (E)   In addition to the regular meeting heretofore fixed by ordinance, the
city establishes an informal meeting to be held monthly, which shall be
referred to as a caucus meeting. Attendance at the caucus meeting shall be open
to the public; however, the attendance of the City Commissioners shall not be
mandatory. The caucus meeting shall be held at the city offices, 9117 Leesgate,
Suite 104, at 4:30 p.m. on the second Tuesday of each month, if not a legal
holiday, or if a legal holiday, on the following Tuesday that is not a legal
holiday.
   (F)   The taking of minutes at the caucus meeting shall not be required and
no final action shall be taken at a caucus meeting unless the caucus meeting
also qualifies as a special meeting of the City Commission pursuant to KRS
61.805 et seq.
(Ord. 90-01, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 91-06, passed 4-16-91; Am. Ord. 94-01,
passed 1-21-94; Am. Ord. 95-02, passed 5-8-95; Am. Ord. 98-07, passed 10-12-98)
§ 32.22 APPROVAL OF MINUTES.
   At each regular meeting of the Commission the minutes of the proceedings of
the previous regular meeting and of all intervening special meetings shall be
publicly read, corrected, and approved, signed by the presiding officer, and
attested by the City Clerk/City Administrative Officer. Such minutes may be
approved without reading if the City Clerk/City Administrative Officer has
previously furnished each member with a copy thereof and if no member has
requested a reading of the minutes.
('82 Code, § 1.8(c)) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-82)
§ 32.23 QUORUM.
   A majority of the five members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum,
but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time and may compel the
attendance of absent members in such manner and under such penalties as are
prescribed by ordinance.
('82 Code, § 1.8(d)) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-82)
§ 32.24 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   During sessions of the Commission, the presiding officer shall have the same
power to enforce order and decorum and to punish for contempt that circuit
judges have. He may issue subpoenas, writs, and compulsory process for the
attendance of witnesses, and the production of books and papers before the
Commission and enforce them by appropriate fines, forfeitures, and punishments,
to be entered as an order upon the order book of the Commission.
('82 Code, § 1.8(e)) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-82)
§ 32.25 VOTING.
   The vote on all questions coming before the Commission shall be by voice
vote except that the roll shall be called if any member requests it. The
passage of an ordinance shall be by roll call vote and the vote of each member
of the City Council shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting. All
ordinances shall be adopted in accordance with the requirements of KRS 83A.060
(4).
('82 Code, § 1.8(f)) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-82)
§ 32.26 TIME OF SUBMITTING DOCUMENTS.
   All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, contract documents, or
other matters to be submitted to the Commission shall, at least five business
days prior to each Commission meeting, be delivered to the City Clerk/City
Administrative Officer, whereupon the City Clerk/City Administrative Officer
shall immediately arrange a list of such matters according to the agenda or
order of business and furnish each member of the Commission, the Mayor, and the
City Attorney with a copy of the same prior to the Commission meeting and as
far in advance of the meeting as time for preparation will permit. By unanimous
vote of the Commission, this requirement may be waived.
('82 Code, § 1.8(g)) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-82)
§ 32.27 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR DISCUSSION AT COMMISSION MEETINGS.
   (A)   Permission to speak. Any person desiring to address the Commission
shall first secure the permission of the presiding officer so to do.
   (B)   Interested parties - relevant issues. Interested parties or their
authorized representatives may address the Commission by written communications
in regard to matters then under discussion, and such communications shall be
read by the City Clerk/City Administrative Officer at the next regular meeting
unless objected to by a majority of the Commission.
   (C)   Interested persons - protest issues. Interested persons or their
authorized representatives may address the Commission by reading of protests,
petitions, or communications relating to zoning, sewer and street proceedings,
hearings on protests, appeals and petitions, or similar matters.
   (D)   Taxpayers or residents. Taxpayers or residents of the city, or their
authorized legal representatives, may address the Commission by oral
communications on any matter concerning the city's business or any matter over
which the Commission has control; provided, however, that preference shall be
given to those persons who may have notified the City Clerk/City Administrative
Officer in advance of their desire to speak in order that the same may appear
on the agenda of the Commission.
   (E)   Personal, impertinent, or slanderous remarks. Any person making
personal, impertinent, or slanderous remarks or who shall become boisterous
while addressing the Commission shall be forthwith, by the presiding officer,
barred from further audience before the Commission unless permission to
continue be granted by a majority vote of the Commission.
   (F)   Relevant and indecorous remarks. Every member desiring to speak shall
address the Chair and, upon recognition by the presiding officer, shall confine
himself to the question under debate, avoiding all personal and indecorous
language.
   (G)   Point of order. A member, once recognized, shall not be interrupted
when speaking unless it be to call him to order, or as herein otherwise
provided. If a member, while speaking, be called to order, he shall cease
speaking until the question of order be determined and, if in order, he shall
be permitted to proceed.
   (H)   Right to close debate. The Commission member moving the adoption of an
ordinance, municipal order, or resolution shall have the privilege of closing
the debate.
   (I)   Motion to reconsider. A motion to reconsider any action taken by the
Commission may be made only on the day such action was taken. It may be made
either immediately during the same session, or at a recessed or adjourned
session thereof. Such motion must be made by one of the prevailing side, but
may be seconded by any member, and may be made at any time and have precedence
over all other motions or while a member has the floor; it shall be debatable.
Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any member of the Commission from
making or remaking the same or any other motion at a subsequent meeting of the
Commission.
   (J)   Sergeant-at-arms. The presiding officer may, as needed, designate a
sergeant-at-arms for the Commission meetings. The person thus designated shall
carry out all orders and instructions given by the presiding officer for the
purpose of maintaining order and decorum at the Commission meeting. Upon
instructions of the presiding officer, it shall be the duty of the sergeant-at-
arms to place any person who violates the order and decorum of the meeting
under arrest, and cause him to be prosecuted under the provisions of this code,
the complaint to be signed by the presiding officer.
   (K)   Committees. All committees shall be appointed by the presiding
officer.
   (1)   Explanation of vote. Any member shall have the right to have the
reasons for his dissent from, support of, or protest against, any action of the
Commission entered on the minutes.
   (M)   Power to introduce ordinances, orders, and resolutions. Ordinances,
municipal orders, resolutions, and other matters or subjects requiring action
by the Commission must be introduced and sponsored by a member of the
Commission.
   (N)   Motion to adjourn. A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and
decided without debate.
   (O)   Robert's Rules of Order. If a question of procedure is not covered
above, and if its resolution is deemed by the presiding officer to be
absolutely necessary to a fair consideration of the substantive issue under
discussion, Robert's Rules of Order shall be the controlling authority.
('82 Code, § 1.9) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-82)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled "Be it ordained by the City of Hurstbourne."
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Commission may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of § 32.42
shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4),(7))
§ 32.39 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Commission may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or
nationally recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.40 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Commission is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Commission shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Commission has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.41, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk/City Administrative Officer and the presiding officer
shall sign the official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.41 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted by the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk/City Administrative Officer in the
following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
City Commission. If the City Commission elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared and certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks such as streets or roads,
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.43 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.44 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.45 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   The Commission may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall
be in writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be
amended only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted
shall be maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Commission has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
§ 32.46 PROVED BY CITY CLERK/CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk/City Administrative Officer; and when the ordinances are placed in
this code of ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be
received in evidence by any state court without further proof of such
ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.47 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, City Commissioners shall be entitled to the
same immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
                    
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance; budget procedures
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Self-insurance program
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Financial Management and Investment Policy
   
33.30   General policy
   
33.31   Investment objectives
   
33.32   Investment authority
   
33.33   Prudent person rule
   
33.34   Authorized investments
   
33.35   Diversification of investments
   
33.36   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
33.37   Safekeeping and custody
   
33.38   Collateral
   
33.39   Investment reporting
   
33.40   Audit
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
      (1)   "BUDGET." A proposed plan for raising and spending money for
specified programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
      (2)   "DEBT SERVICE." The sum of money required to pay installments of
principal and interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing
within a fiscal year and to maintain sinking funds.
      (3)   "ENCUMBRANCES." Obligations in the form of purchase orders or
contracts that are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be
an encumbrance when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
      (4)   "FISCAL YEAR." The accounting period for the administration of
fiscal operations.
      (5)   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS." Those
standards for audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and
functions issued by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91a.010(6))
      (6)   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING." Those
standards and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental
Accounting Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE; BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No money shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund, except in accordance
with a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the respon- sibility of
the Commission.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as is
prescribed by division (N) below.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the Commission not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal
year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   The Commission may adopt the budget ordinance making
appropriations for the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and
proper, whether greater or less than the sums recommended in the budget
proposal. The budget ordinance may take any form that the Commission finds most
efficient in enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   The Commission may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Commission. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to the Commission of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
      (1)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration
and implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form
with the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
   (N)   The following standards shall apply to the form and detail in which
the annual budget proposal of the city is to be prepared.
      (1)   The annual budget proposal shall be developed for the period of
July l, of a calendar year through June 30, of the following calendar year
which period is hereby adopted as the fiscal year for the city.
      (2)   The annual budget proposal shall detail the expected generation of
revenue from all sources, including grants and transfers, and the expected
expenditure of all money for specified programs, functions, activities, or
objectives of the city, including all principal and interest due on debt, for
the fiscal year. The total of anticipated revenues shall exceed the total of
proposed expenditures.
      (3)   The annual budget proposal shall be developed in such a manner that
there is planned a contingency fund within the General Fund equal to four
months of operating expenses.
      (4)   The annual budget proposal shall be constructed such that any
revenue sources which are expected to be limited in receipt to less than five
years, be placed exclusively in special funds, and that such resources shall
not be proposed to be appropriated for the ongoing essential services provided
to the community through the General Fund.
      (5)   The annual budget proposal shall be constructed such that all
revenues from specific funding sources which are restricted to certain purposes
or which must be accounted separately shall be placed in a special fund.
      (6)   The annual budget proposal shall be constructed such that all
expected revenues and expenditures for capital outlays as defined in Auditing
of Kentucky Municipalities, Accounting System Section, will be included in a
Capital Fund.
      (7)   The form of the annual budget proposal shall be consistent in form,
to the extent practical, with the accounting system of the city.
      (8)   The annual budget proposal shall provide a complete program and
financial plan for all funds for the budget year. It shall contain:
         (a)   A budget message, as specified in KRS 91A.030(7).
         (b)   A budget summary, as specified in division (9) below, supported
by:
            1.   An estimate of fund balance carry-forward, as specified in
division (10) below.
            2.   An estimate of all anticipated revenues of the city compared
to previous years, as specified in division (11) below.
            3.   Proposed expenditures compared to previous years, as specified
in division (12) below.
            4.   An estimate of anticipated transfers, as specified in division
(13) below.
      (9)   At the head of the annual budget proposal there shall appear a
summary of the budget, which need not be itemized further than by principal
sources of anticipated revenue, and proposed expenditures by program, function,
activity, or objectives of the city, in such a manner as to present a simple
and clear summary of the detailed estimates of the budget components.
      (10)   Each fund balance available for appropriation shall be limited to
the amount by which assets are estimated to exceed liabilities at the beginning
of the budget year.
      (11)   In parallel columns opposite the several items of anticipated
revenue there shall be placed:
         (a)   The amount of each such item actually received during the
immediately preceding fiscal year; and
         (b)   The total of the amount of each item actually received to the
time of preparation of the annual budget proposal, plus anticipated receipts
for the remainder of the current fiscal year estimated as accurately as
possible.
      (12)   In parallel columns, opposite the several items of proposed
expenditures, there shall be placed:
         (a)   The amount of each such item actually expended during the
immediately preceding fiscal year; and
         (b)   The total of the amount actually expended to the time of
preparation of the annual budget proposal plus the expenditures for the
remainder of the current fiscal year estimated as accurately as possible; and
         (c)   The amount of each item to be appropriated for the budget year.
      (13)   Any anticipated excess revenues, if legally available for general
purposes and to the extent such excess is to be used to support other funds,
shall be stated as a transfer item in the annual budget proposal.
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 11-22-83)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the city shall
after the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, cause each fund of the city
to be audited by the auditor of public accounts or a certified public
accountant. The audits shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the
fiscal year to be audited. Within ten days of the completion of the audit and
its presentation to the City Commission, pursuant to division (C) (5) of this
section, the city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the
Department for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April
1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited. After the close of each
even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall prepare a financial statement in
accordance with KRS 424.200 and immediately forward one electronic or paper
copy to the Department for Local Government, which shall make available on
request either an electronic or paper copy of the financial statement to the
Legislative Research Commission or the Auditor of Public Accounts.
   (B)   Any city of the sixth class, which for any fiscal year receives and
expends, from all sources and for all purposes, less than $75,000, and which
has no long-term debt, whether general obligation or revenue debt, shall not be
required to audit each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. Each
city shall annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220 and immediately forward one copy to the Department for Local Government
for information purposes.
   (C)   The city, required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended.
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         1.   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         2.   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         3.   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the Commission at a regular or special meeting;
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s work papers upon request.
   (D)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
is considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to the
city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (E)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds,” which shall
include the General Fund and all major funds;
        (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of such statement.
   (F)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any
officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of this section shall,
for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than
$500, in the discretion of the court, which may be recovered only once, in a
civil action brought by any resident of the city. The costs of all proceedings,
including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident bringing the
action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(KRS 91A.040)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Commission shall designate as the city's official depositories one
or more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. sec. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any
obligations, including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Commission which
states the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the
payment and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization
shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91a.060)
§ 33.06 SELF-INSURANCE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The participation by the city in the General Insurance Trust created
by the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management Association and the purchase from or
through the Trust of such public liability and property damage insurance
coverages as may be deemed advisable by the City Commission are hereby
approved.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to execute and deliver, for and on
behalf of the city, in connection with its participation in the Trust, the
Trust Participation Agreement, substantially in the form attached to Ordinance
No. 87-7 as Exhibit A.
(Ord. 87-7, passed 9-11-87)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   "ASSESSED VALUE BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property
bears to the total assessed value of all such properties.
   "BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by the Commission of the special benefit
received by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis,
front foot basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may
include consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different
classes of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received,
and other factors affecting benefits received.
   "COST." All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   "FAIR BASIS." Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   "FRONT FOOT BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   "IMPROVEMENT." Construction of any facility for public use or services or
any addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   "PROPERTY." Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   "SPECIAL ASSESSMENT" or "ASSESSMENT." A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   "SQUARE FOOT BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement, in whole or in part, through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes. (KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. The
Commission may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned
property or it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that the other payments will coincide
with payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Commission shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 33.30 GENERAL POLICY.
   It is the policy of The City of Hurstbourne to invest public funds in a
manner which will provide the maximum security of principal and highest
investment return while meeting the daily cash flow demands on the City of
Hurstbourne and conforming to both KRS 91A.060 and KRS 66.480. This investment
policy applies to all financial assets held directly by the City of
Hurstbourne. These financial assets are accounted for in the City of
Hurstbourne annual financial report and include all moneys in investment fund
accounts.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 9-25-12)
§ 33.31 INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES.
The City of Hurstbourne primary investment objectives, in order of priority,
are the following:
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principle is the foremost objective of the City of
Hurstbourne investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner
that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio.
   (B)   Liquidity. The City of Hurstbourne investment portfolio shall remain
sufficiently liquid to enable the City of Hurstbourne to meet all operating
requirements which might be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Return on investment. The City of Hurstbourne investment portfolio
shall be designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return
throughout the budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the City of
Hurstbourne investment risk constraints and the cash flow characteristics of
the portfolio.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 9-25-12)
§ 33.32 INVESTMENT AUTHORITY.
   Management responsibility for the investment policy is delegated by the
Hurstbourne City Commissioners to the Finance Committee.
   (A)   The Finance Committee shall consist of:
      (1)   The Commissioner assigned to the General Government Department who
shall be its Chair;
      (2)   The City Administrative Officer;
      (3)   The City Treasurer; and
      (4)   One additional Commissioner to be appointed by the Commission at
its first meeting in January.
   (B)   The Finance Committee shall be a standing Committee of the City of
Hurstbourne. The Finance Committee shall have the authority to uphold and
establish additional specific written procedures for the operation of the
investment program, which are consistent with this investment policy and
subject to the approval or disapproval of the City Commission. The procedures
shall include explicit delegation of authority, if any, to persons responsible
for investment transactions. No person may engage in an investment transaction
except as provided under the terms of this policy and the procedures
established. The Finance Committee shall be ultimately responsible for all
transactions undertaken and shall establish a system of controls to regulate
the activities of subordinate officials and employees. The controls shall be
designed to prevent and control losses of funds arising from fraud; employees’
error; misrepresentation by third parties; or imprudent actions by officers and
employees. The Finance Committee shall maintain all records related to the
entity’s investment program, and furnish a monthly investment report to the
Commission.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 9-25-12)
§ 33.33 PRUDENT PERSON RULE.
   (A)   The actions of the Finance Committee members in the performance of
their duties as managers of the City of Hurstbourne funds shall be evaluated
using the “prudent man” standard. Investments shall be made with judgment and
care under prevailing circumstances which persons of prudence, discretion, and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment considering the probable safety of their
capital as well as the probable income to be derived.
   (B)   The Finance Committee members acting in accordance with written
procedures and exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal
responsibility for an individual security’s performance, provided that
deviations from expectations are reported in a timely fashion to the government
body and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 9-25-12)
§ 33.34 AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   The funds of the City of Hurstbourne available for investment shall be
invested in accordance with this policy and all applicable state statutes.
Authorized investment instruments per KRS 66.480:
   (A)   Obligations of the United States and its agencies and
instrumentalities, including obligations subject to repurchase agreements,
provided that delivery of these obligations subject to repurchase agreements is
taken either directly or through an authorized custodian.
   (B)   Obligations and contracts for future delivery or purchase of
obligations backed by the full faith credit of the United States or a United
States government agency, including but not limited to: United States Treasury;
Export-Import Bank of the United States; Farmers Home Administration;
Government National Mortgage Corporation; and Merchant Marine Bonds.
   (C)   Obligations of any corporation of the United States government,
including but not limited to: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation; Federal
Farm Credit Banks; Bank of Cooperatives; Federal Intermediate Credit Banks;
Federal Land Banks; Federal Home Loan Banks; Federal National Mortgage
Association; and Tennessee Valley Authority.
   (D)   Certificates of deposit insured by or other interest-bearing accounts
of any bank or savings and loan institution which are insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or which are collateralized, to
the extent uninsured, by any obligations permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (E)   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of this state and of its
agencies and instrumentalities.
   (F)   Securities issued by a state or local government, or any
instrumentality of agency thereof, in the United States, and rated in one of
the three highest categories by a nationally recognized rating agency.
   (G)   Shares of mutual funds and money markets, each of which will have the
following characteristics:
      (1)   The mutual funds shall be an open-end diversified investment
company registered under the Federal Investment Company Act of 1940, as
amended;
      (2)   The management company of the investment company shall have been in
operation for at least years;
      (3)   All of the securities in the mutual fund shall be eligible
investments under this section.
   (H)   Limitation on Investment Transactions With regard to the investments
authorized in this section, no investments shall be purchased for the City of
Hurstbourne on a margin basis or through the use of any similar leveraging
technique.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 9-25-12)
§ 33.35 DIVERSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   The City of Hurstbourne recognizes that some level of risk is inherent
in any investment transaction. Losses may be incurred due to market price
changes or closing investments prior to maturity due to unanticipated cash flow
needs. Diversification of the City of Hurstbourne investment portfolio by type
of investment instrument and term to maturity is the primary method to minimize
investment risk.
   (B)   To the extent possible, the City of Hurstbourne will attempt to match
its investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Reserve funds may be
invested in securities exceeding one year, if maturities of the investments are
made to coincide as nearly as practical with the expected use of the funds.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 9-25-12)
§ 33.36 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   No financial institution shall be selected as a depository of City of
Hurstbourne funds if the City of Hurstbourne funds on deposit at any time will
exceed 10% of the institution’s capital surplus and stock. The Finance
Committee shall evaluate the financial capacity and creditworthiness of
financial institutions prior to the placement of the City of Hurstbourne funds
and each shall comply with the requirements of KRS 91A.060 for qualifying
official depositories. The Finance Committee shall conduct an annual review of
the financial condition and registrations of financial institutions and based
on the review, make any recommendations regarding investment policy or program
changes determined to be necessary.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 9-25-12)
§ 33.37 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   To protect against potential fraud and embezzlement, bearer instruments
shall be held only through third-party institutions. Any officer or employee of
the City of Hurstbourne authorized to engage in investment transactions shall
be bonded in an amount established by the Finance Committee. The safekeeping
procedures utilized in the City of Hurstbourne investment program shall be
reviewed annually by the independent auditor.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 9-25-12)
§ 33.38 COLLATERAL.
   (A)   It is the policy of the City of Hurstbourne to require that all cash
and investments in excess of the amount insured by the FDIC maintained in any
financial institution named as a depository be collateralized. In order to
anticipate market changes and provide a level of security for all funds, the
collateralization level shall be 100% of the market value of principal, plus
accrued interest in accordance with KRS 91A.060. Collateral shall be limited to
the types of instruments authorized as collateral for state funds in KRS 41.240
(Exhibit Three).
   (B)   Collateral shall always be held by an independent third-party
custodian with whom the City of Hurstbourne has a current custodial agreement.
A clearly marked evidence of ownership (safekeeping receipt) must be supplied
to the City of Hurstbourne and retained by the Finance Committee. The right of
collateral substitution is hereby granted.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 9-25-12)
§ 33.39 INVESTMENT REPORTING.
   10.1 The Finance Committee shall prepare and submit to the Commission a
monthly report regarding the status of the entity’s investment program. As to
each investment, the report shall include the following information:
   (A)   Name of financial institution from which the investment was purchased
or in which assets are deposited.
   (B)   Type of investment.
   (C)   Certificate or other reference number, if applicable.
   (D)   Percentage yield on an annualized basis.
   (E)   Purchase price and maturity date.
   (F)   Current market value of the investment.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 9-25-12)
§ 33.40 AUDIT.
   In connection with the audit of City of Hurstbourne funds conducted by an
independent certified public accountant, the auditor shall conduct a review of
the City of Hurstbourne investment program, including internal controls and
procedures, and the results of the review, including recommended changes, shall
be included in the City of Hurstbourne audit.
(Ord. 12-06, passed 9-25-12)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Format of copies
   
34.13   Fees for copies
   
34.14   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.15   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.16   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.17   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   “BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH AND PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE.” A photograph or
image of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes
when the individual is booked into a detention facility as defined in KRS
520.010 or photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099.
   "CITY." The city government of this city.
   "COMMERCIAL PURPOSE." The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. "COMMERCIAL PURPOSE" shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its new
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   "CUSTODIAN." The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The "CUSTODIAN" having personal custody
of most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk.
   "MECHANICAL PROCESSING." Any operation or other procedure which is
transacted on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier,
computer, recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   "MEDIA." The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   "OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN." The chief administrative officer or any other officer
or employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care,
and keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his
actual personal custody and control. The "OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN" of this city
shall be the Mayor.
   "PERSON." A human being who makes a request for inspection of public
records.
   "PRESCRIBED FEE" or "FEE." The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   "PUBLIC AGENCY." The city, including its legislative body and every officer,
department and division of the city; every entity created by authority of the
city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency created and controlled by the city; and
any interagency body in which the city participates.
   "PUBLIC RECORDS." All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. "PUBLIC RECORDS" shall not include any
records owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by §
34.16.
   "REQUEST." An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   “RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.”
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) to (5)
of this definition; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(8)(b)1.a.
to e..
   "SOFTWARE." The program code which makes a computer system function, but
does not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency's computer system. "SOFTWARE" consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870) (Am. Ord. 21-07, passed 7-27-21)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any Resident of the Commonwealth of Kentucky defined by KRS 61.870(10)
desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city shall make a
request for inspection by email to the City Clerk, at the office of the City
Clerk during regular office hours, except during legal holidays, or send Form
OAG-01 “Request to Inspect Public Record” to the City Clerk at the city’s
address. Form OAG- 01 is available on the city website along with this section.
The official custodian, or the custodian acting under the authority of the
official custodian, may require Form OAG-01 with the applicant’s name printed
legibly on the application. Form OAG-01 to inspect public records may be
presented by hand delivery, mail or via email.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
(Am. Ord. 21-07, passed 7-27-21)
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency's public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the Form OAG-01, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5)) (Am. Ord. 21-07, passed 7-27-21)
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880) (Am. Ord. 21-07, passed 7-27-21)
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of §
34.12 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.16. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor's requirements, the public record may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) - (3))
§ 34.13 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records;
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3),(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.15
§ 34.14 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.13;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.15 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.13.
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.16 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Upon and after July 15, 1992, records confidentially
disclosed to the agency, or required by an agency to be disclosed to it,
generally recognized as confidential or proprietary, which if openly disclosed
would permit an unfair commercial advantage to competitors of the entity that
disclosed the records.
         (b)   Upon and after July 15, 1992, records confidentially disclosed
to an agency or required by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally
recognized as confidential or proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Ch. 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action; however, records or information compiled
and maintained by county attorneys or Commonwealth’s attorneys pertaining to
criminal investigations or criminal litigation shall be exempted from the
provisions of this chapter and shall remain exempted after enforcement action,
including litigation, is completed or a decision is made to take no action. The
exemptions provided by this subdivision shall not be used by the custodian of
the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation.
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under state law.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, “terrorist act” means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (13)(a)6.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Ch. 31.
      (17)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in this section;
      (18)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
      (19)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for the person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.08.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. Such records
shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
   (E)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(19) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878)
§ 34.17 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: DEPARTMENTS
Section
   
35.01   Creation and supervision of departments
   
35.02   General Government Department
   
35.03   Public Safety Department
   
35.04   Public Works Department
   
35.05   Sanitation Department
   
35.06   Fire Protection District
§ 35.01 CREATION AND SUPERVISION OF DEPARTMENTS.
   The administrative and service functions of the city shall be classified
under four departments. The departments shall be known as General Government,
Public Safety, Public Works, and Sanitation. The overall supervision of these
departments shall be the responsibility of the City Clerk/City Administrative
Officer. The functions of each department shall be as set forth in this
chapter.
('82 Code, § 1.6) (Ord. 1-1983, passed 9-12-82)
§ 35.02 GENERAL GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENT.
   The primary function of the General Government Department shall be to
administer the city government, administer the finances and ensure
administrative compliance with state law. Administration of the General
Government Department shall be the responsibility of the City Administrative
Officer, working under the supervision of the City Commissioner assigned to
administer the General Government Department. Duties within this General
Government include:
   (A)   Supervise non-elected city employees;
   (B)   Maintain City Office;
   (C)   Investment committee;
   (D)   Oversight and implementation of financial affairs;
   (E)   Taxation, including tax rate, billing and collection;
   (F)   Annual audit;
   (G)   Budget, including drafting, approval and compliance;
   (H)   Codification of ordinances; and
   (I)   City records, including record retention and open records compliance.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 9-25-12)
§ 35.03 PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENT.
   The primary function of the Public Safety Department shall be to provide for
the public safety needs of the city. The full City Commission will determine
the particular method of obtaining police services, such as contracted police
services. The Public Safety Department will administer those police services.
Administration of the Public Safety Department shall be the responsibility of
the City Administrative Officer, working under the supervision of the City
Commissioner assigned to the Public Safety Department. Duties within the Public
Safety Department include:
   (A)   Maintain and repair traffic signs, street signs, street lights and
fire safety equipment; and
   (B)   Negotiate, recommend and administer contract for police protection and
traffic control.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 9-25-12)
§ 35.04 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.
   The primary function of the Public Works Department shall be to provide for
the maintenance of the City streets, parks, public areas and medians.
Administration of the Public Works Department shall be the responsibility of
the City Administrative Officer, working under the supervision of the City
Commission assigned to the Public Works Department. Duties within the Public
Works Department include:
   (A)   Maintain and repair the City’s physical assets, including streets,
medians, entrances, trees, public lands, landscape lighting and irrigation.
   (B)   Negotiate, recommend and administer contracts for repaving, street
repair, snow removal, mowing and landscaping.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 9-25-12)
§ 35.05 SANITATION DEPARTMENT.
   The primary function of the Sanitation Department shall be to provide for
the sanitation needs of the city and deal with any ordinance violations in the
City. Administration of the Sanitation Department shall be the responsibility
of the City Administrative Officer, working under the supervision of the City
Commissioner assigned to the Sanitation Department. Duties within the
Sanitation Department include:
   (A)   Negotiate, recommend and administer contract for residential garbage
collection, yard waste and recycling removal.
   (B)   Review and approve building and demolition permits that are in
compliance with City of Hurstbourne ordinances and the Land Development Code.
Any waivers or variances must be approved by the full City Commission. Enforce
existing codes and ordinances.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 9-25-12)
§ 35.06 FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT.
Editor's note:
   Fire protection for the city is handled by the Lyndon Fire Protection
District.
CHAPTER 36: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL POLICY
Section
Administration of the Plan
   
37.01   City Commission to administer personnel plan
   
37.02   Scope of coverage
   
37.03   EOE, ADA, and IRCA
   
37.04   Administrative responsibilities
   
37.05   Personnel records
   
37.06   Performance appraisal
   
37.07   Status of present employees
   
37.08   At-will employment
Employment Process
   
37.20   Announcement of position
   
37.21 Appointment of position
   
37.22 Criminal history
Conditions of Employment
   
37.30   Grievance procedure
   
37.31   Performance evaluation procedures
   
37.32   Probation
   
37.33   Disciplinary procedures
   
37.34   Resignations
   
37.35   Layoff
   
37.36   Retirement
   
37.37   Employee bonding
Classification Plan
   
37.40   Categories of employment
   
37.41   Ranges
   
37.42   Adjustments
   
37.43   Overtime/compensatory time
Benefits
   
37.50   Holidays
   
37.51   Annual leave (vacation)
   
37.52   Military leave
   
37.53   Sick leave
   
37.54   Bereavement leave
   
37.55   Maternity/paternity leave
   
37.56   Leave without pay
   
37.57   Jury duty
   
37.58   Insurance
   
37.59   Expense reimbursement
   
37.60   Workers compensation insurance
   
37.61   Unemployment insurance
   
37.62   Social security
   
37.63   Retirement
   
37.64   Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)
General Employment Policies
   
37.80   Sexual and nonsexual harassment
   
37.81   Workplace violence
   
37.82   Drug and alcohol-free workplace
   
37.83   Meals and rest periods
   
37.84   Inclement weather
   
37.85   Standards of performance and conduct
   
37.86   Information technology and acceptable use
   
37.87   Employee privacy expectations
   
37.88   Smoke-free workplace
   
37.89   Open records policy
   
37.90   City social media
   
37.91   Employee guidelines for participating in social networking
§ 37.01 CITY COMMISSION TO ADMINISTER PERSONNEL PLAN.
   (A)   The city recognizes that a personnel system that recruits and retains
a competent, productive work force is essential to effective, efficient local
government. These policies and procedures have been developed to achieve
optimum efficiency, economy and equity in the pursuit of the city goals and the
utilization of its human resources.
   (B)   The city functions under the Commission form of government with all
legislative, executive and administrative functions of the city vested in the
City Commission. The Commission has sole authority for the administration of
city employees. Under KRS 83A.140, the Commission supervises all city
departments and the conduct of all city employees. The Commission shall also
promulgate procedures to ensure the orderly administration of the functions of
city government. The Commission is charged with fixing the compensation of city
employees pursuant to the city personnel pay and classification plan.
   (C)   The City Commission may delegate personnel duties to the CAO, who will
serve as Personnel Officer. Changes in the policies, procedures,
classifications and pay plans as set out herein may be changed only by
ordinance amendment.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-
05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.02 SCOPE OF COVERAGE.
   (A)   The following employees and officers of the city are explicitly
exempted from coverage unless otherwise specified:
      (1)   All elected officials;
      (2)   All members of Board of Commissions;
      (3)   City Attorney;
      (4)   City Treasurer;
      (5)   City Engineer;
      (6)   Consultants, advisors, and counsel rendering temporary professional
services;
      (7)   Seasonal/part time employees; and
      (8)   Members of volunteer organizations.
   (B)   All officers and employees not explicitly exempted from coverage of
these policies and procedures shall be subject to its provisions. These
policies and procedures shall apply to the City Administrative Officer unless
his employment contract states otherwise.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-
05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.03 EOE, ADA, AND IRCA.
   (A)   Equal Opportunity Employer.
      (1)   The city provides equal opportunity to all its employees and
applicants, and prohibits discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, political affiliation, physical handicaps, age, or marital
status. The city promotes equal opportunity in matters of hiring, promotion,
transfer, compensation, benefits and all other terms, privileges, and
conditions of employment.
      (2)   The city's equal opportunity employers commitment extends to all
employment practices, including job postings, promotions, disciplinary
proceedings, evaluations, and other activities by the city.
      (3)   The harassment, retaliation, coercion, interference, or
intimidation of any employee due to that employee's race, religion, color,
national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, pregnancy,
childbirth, pregnancy/child birth related medical conditions, genetic makeup,
age, disability, veteran or family status, or because the employee is a smoker
or nonsmoker is strictly forbidden. Any employee who experiences such treatment
should report it immediately to the City Administrative Officer or the City
Attorney.
   (B)   Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
      (1)   The city will offer equal employment opportunities for qualified
individuals who may have a physical or mental disability but who can still
perform essential job functions with or without reasonable accommodation. The
city will provide reasonable accommodation to individuals who qualify under ADA
when that accommodation does not create an "undue hardship" to the city.
      (2)   Any employee who needs accommodation should notify the City
Administrative Officer in writing. Medical information may be requested by the
city to assist in understanding the employee's capabilities and limitations.
   (C)   Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA).
      (1)   The city will comply with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of
1986 (IRCA), including Form 1-9 requirements.
      (2)   Under IRCA, all employers must complete Employment Eligibility
Verification Forms, commonly known as Form 1-9, for all current employees and
maintain those forms in a separate file for the longer of:
         (a)   Three years from the first day of employment; or
         (b)   One year after the employment has ended.
      (3)   IRCA prohibits employers from:
         (a)   Knowingly hiring or recruiting or referring (for a fee) aliens
who are not authorized to work in the United States;
         (b)   Requiring specific documents to complete the Form 1-9; or
         (c)   Retaliating against employees that file a charge or participate
in an investigation.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-
05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.04 ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The personnel policies and procedures shall be administered by the CAO
who shall serve as the Personnel Officer. The Commission hereby delegates the
administrative duties pursuant to this policy to the CAO.
   (B)   In addition to the duties set forth in the policies and procedures,
the Personnel Officer shall: administer the provisions of these policies and
procedures and maintain current records on all employees, including position
title, pay rate and other relevant employment data.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Personnel Officer to ensure that the
policies and procedures reflect all subsequent amendments or additions made by
the legislative body.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-
05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.05 PERSONNEL RECORDS.
   (A)   A personnel file will be maintained for each city employee by the CAO.
All changes in the status of employees will be recorded in these files, which
will be retained and maintained in accordance with applicable state and federal
laws.
   (B)   The personnel file shall include:
      (1)   Employee’s name, permanent address, and phone numbers;
      (2)   Position title;
      (3)   Completed application form;
      (4)   Hiring date;
      (5)   Department assignment;
      (6)   Salary;
      (7)   Employee forms for taxes;
      (8)   Retirement application;
      (9)   Disciplinary actions;
      (10)   Awards received;
      (11)   Training records;
      (12)   Performance reviews/continuous feedback forms;
      (13)   All changes in status as a city employee; and
      (14)   Whatever additional information these ordinances, other governing
laws, or the city may require.
   (C)   Personnel files are the property of the city and subject to the Open
Records Act. Access to an employee personnel file is strictly controlled and
granted only to authorized individuals who have a legitimate reason to review
information in a file, or as authorized under the Open Records Act. Employees
will be notified of any request to view their personnel file.
   (D)   Access to the file is by appointment with the CAO with reasonable
advance notice. The CAO shall maintain a log of all those requesting personnel
file access. Employees may review their own personnel file in the presence of
the CAO.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-
05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.06 PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL.
   All employees shall be evaluated for job performance on an annual basis.
Additional appraisals may be given at any time if performance is less than
satisfactory. All performance appraisals will become a permanent part of the
employee's personnel file.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.07 STATUS OF PRESENT EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Employees filling permanent positions with the city who have served in
the position on a continuing basis throughout the six months preceding
enactment of this chapter shall have permanent status conferred upon the
effective date of this chapter, unless otherwise stated.
   (B)   The use of the word "permanent" shall refer to the nature of the
position only and not to the employee's status.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.08 AT-WILL EMPLOYMENT.
   All city employees are at-will employees. This means there is no contract of
employment, express or implied, and that either the city or the employee is
free to terminate the employment relationship at any time, with or without
cause. The city's At-Will Employment Policy will only be varied by a specific
written agreement that is entered into and signed by the City Commission and an
individual employee. Therefore, nothing contained in this chapter or any other
document provided to the employee will be relied upon or interpreted to form a
contract binding upon the city regarding any benefit, policy procedure, or
other term or condition of employment.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
EMPLOYMENT PROCESS
§ 37.20 ANNOUNCEMENT OF POSITION.
   (A)   Announcement of a position may include such information as: where to
apply; deadlines for application; pay ranges for the position; summary of
duties of the position; and the position qualifications suggested. All written
announcements of a position shall contain the following statement: “An Equal
Opportunity Employer”.
   (B)   Announcements for positionsshall be made on the city’s website or
other job posting websites, such as Indeed, ZipRecruiter, KLC Classifieds, and
others.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-05,
Series 2023, passed 12-12-23))
§ 37.21 APPOINTMENT TO POSITION.
   (A)   Vacancies may be filled by promotion from within.
   (B)   Employees are appointed and removed only by the Commission. (KRS 83A
140-150)
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-05,
Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.22 CRIMINAL HISTORY.
   (A)   A criminal history or conviction does not automatically preclude a
candidate’s eligibility for employment. To assist the City Commission in
reviewing criminal records, below is a list of convictions that may disqualify
an applicant or employee from employment with the city:
      (1)   Crimes involving violence, theft, or drug distribution/trafficking;
      (2)   Computer crimes; or
      (3)   Driving crimes.
   (B)   Before any applicant or employee is disqualified based on their
criminal history, the application or employee will be given an opportunity to
provide individual information regarding the circumstances of their criminal
history. The CAO will request that the applicant or employee submit a written,
signed statement regarding their criminal history. The City Commission and CAO
will consider all information provided by each applicant or employee to
determine whether the information provided sufficiently mitigates the
circumstances of the disqualifying conviction pursuant to KRS Ch. 335B.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
§ 37.30 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   A grievance is an employee’s expressed dissatisfaction with something
related to his/her job. Employees and the CAO shall work together to resolve
any grievance which arises. Any grievance or dispute which may arise from
employment with the city and which has not been resolved informally shall be
settled in the following manner:
   (A)   The employee shall present the grievance to the CAO within five
working days of the occurrence. The CAO will respond to resolve the situation.
   (B)   If the grievance remains unadjusted, it may then be presented in
writing by the employee to the General Executive Committee for resolution.
   (C)   Any City Commissioner may request a hearing on all issues. The General
Government Commission must then schedule the meeting and give five days’ notice
of time, date and place of such hearing.
   (D)   A copy of all previous written documents involved in the action shall
be attached to the grievance and made a part thereof.
   (E)   The decision of the General Government Executive Committee is final.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-05,
Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.31 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION PROCEDURES.
   Performance appraisals will be performed on city employees on an annual
basis. The evaluation shall be done in April to complement the employee salary
review. Any merit increases will become effective at the first of the fiscal
year (July 1). The following procedures should be followed:
   (A)   The evaluation for the City Bookkeeper and the Administrative
Assistant should be initiated by the CAO and reviewed by the General Government
Commissioner and Mayor prior to completing with the employee.
   (B)   The evaluation for the CAO will be initiated by the Mayor and reviewed
with the General Government Commissioner prior to completing with the CAO.
   (C)   Members of the Commission may submit their evaluations of employees to
the Mayor or CAO if desired.
   (D)   The CAO will coordinate the performance appraisal procedures to insure
the orderly distribution of information.
   (E)   The CAO will develop salary change recommendations after performance
appraisals are completed.
   (F)   Salary adjustment recommendations agreed upon by the CAO and General
Government Commissioner will be presented to the full Commission in a municipal
order for their approval.
   (G)   No information regarding the amount, or effective date of salary
change is to be communicated without approval of the Commission, and it shall
not be communicated more than 15 days prior to the effective date.
   (H)   Reviewer must sign the performance appraisal prior to discussion with
employee. Employee must sign within seven days after appraisal.
   (I)   Employees have the right to appeal their performance appraisal within
seven days. This appeal should be made to the CAO, who will have 30 days to
consider the appeal and return a written response to the employee.(Ord. 15-04,
passed 6-23-15; Am. Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.32 PROBATION.
   (A)   A person initially appointed to a position shall be on probationary
status for six months.
   (B)   While on probation, a new employee may be dismissed at any time
without right of appeal.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.33 DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The City Commission may dismiss an employee for reasons of:
      (1)   Unsatisfactory performance of duties;
      (2)   Action that reflects discredit upon the city;
      (3)   Hindrance of the performance of city functions; and
      (4)   Indictment on misdemeanor or felony charges.
   (B)   The city seeks to encourage a change in an employee's behavior or work
performance before resorting to punitive measures. The CAO shall use the
following disciplinary procedures depending on the severity or frequency of the
offense or problem behavior:
      (1)   Verbal warning or reprimand;
      (2)   Written reprimand;
      (3)   Probationary period for disciplinary reasons;
      (4)   Suspension with or without pay;
      (5)   Demotion and/or reduction in pay; and
      (6)   Termination of employment.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.34 RESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   An employee wishing to resign, should inform the CAO/City Commission
as soon as it is practical. Such notice shall be in writing and should contain
at least the scheduled date on which the employee intends to leave. If an
employee fails to give two weeks written notice, no vacation time shall be paid
or compensated. Sick time shall not be used in lieu of vacation time under
these circumstances. At least two weeks notice is required. This requirement is
superseded by an individual agreement between the Commission and the employee.
   (B)   An employee may be regarded as having resigned their position if found
able to notify CAO/City Commission of the reason for the absence but fails to
do so for three consecutive working days.
   (C)   Employees will be paid for accrued unused vacation days upon ending
employment. Except for circumstances stated in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-
05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.35 LAYOFF.
   (A)   The City Commission, upon recommendation of the CAO (Personnel
Officer), may layoff an employee(s) after due consideration because of lack of
work or funds.
   (B)   The order of layoffs shall be determined on the basis of needs of the
city as recommended by the CAO/Personnel Officer.
   (C)   Temporary, seasonal and probationary employees shall be laid off
before permanent employees.
   (D)   One week before the effective date of the layoff of a permanent
employee, the Personnel Officer shall in writing:
      (1)   Notify the employee of the layoff;
      (2)   Explain to the employee the reasons for the layoff; and
      (3)   Certify whether the employee’s service has been satisfactory.
   (E)   The City Commission may re-employ any former employee who has resigned
from the city with a satisfactory employment record or who has been laid off
because of lack or work or funds.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-
05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.36 RETIREMENT.
   The city does not have a mandatory retirement age for its employees.
However, the city may require any employee to submit to a physical or mental
examination by a medical doctor to determine competency to complete assigned
duties and responsibilities. The city shall pay the costs for any examinations
so administered.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-
05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.37 EMPLOYEE BONDING.
   All city employees involved in the handling of city funds or access to city
financial accounts will be bondable and may be subject to a post-offer credit
check. All employees involved in the handling of city funds or financial
accounts will be bonded at the expense of the city.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
CLASSIFICATION PLAN
§ 37.40 CATEGORIES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   All employees of the city shall be classified as full-time, semi full-
time, permanent part-time, and temporary. These categories are defined as
follows:
      (1)   Full-time employee: An employee who works 35 hours or more per week
on a regular basis.
      (2)   Semi full-time employee: An employee who works 24 hours or more but
less than 30 hours per week on a regular basis.
      (3)   Permanent part-time employee: An employee who works less than 24
hours per week on a regular basis.
      (4)   Temporary employee: An employee who works in a position which is of
a temporary nature.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 15-04,
passed 6-23-15; Am. Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.41 RANGES.
   City Ordinance #15-04, which calls for the city to use the Kentucky League
of Cities guidelines for salary information, prescribes for each position a
minimum, maximum and/or whatever intermediate rates the City Commission shall
approve.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 15-04,
passed 6-23-15; Am. Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.42 ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Each employee position classification is listed below:
      (1)   City Administrative Officer;
      (2)   City Bookkeeper; and
      (3)   City Executive Assistant.
   (B)   Salaries and benefits may be adjusted by ordinance by the City
Commission.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.43 OVERTIME/COMPENSATORY TIME.
   (A)   Overtime shall be kept at the minimum consistent with essential city
services and its financial resources.
   (B)   Full-time employees may receive overtime pay and a half of their
regular pay rate, or compensatory time as determined by the City Commission.
   (C)   Semi full-time employees and permanent part-time employees shall
receive overtime pay at their regular hourly rate up to 40 hours per week.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 15-04,
passed 6-23-15; Am. Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
BENEFITS
§ 37.50 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   The following days are declared paid holidays at the regular rate of
pay for all permanent city employees:
      (1)   The first day of January (New Years Day);
      (2)   The third Monday in January (Martin Luther King Jr. Day);
      (3)   The Friday preceding Easter Sunday (Good Friday);
      (4)   The last Monday in May (Memorial Day);
      (5)   June 19 (Juneteenth);
      (6)   The fourth day of July (Independence Day);
      (7)   The first Monday in September (Labor Day);
      (8)   The second Monday of October (Columbus Day);
      (9)   November 11 (Veteran’s Day);
      (10)   The fourth Thursday and following Friday in November (Thanksgiving
Day and the following day);
      (11)   December 24 and 25(Christmas Eve and Christmas Day); and
      (12)   All full-time employees shall earn one additional floating holiday
for their birthday. This day cannot be accumulated and must be taken with
approval from the City Administrative Officer.
   (B)   If any holidays should fall on weekends, the previous Friday or
following Monday will serve as the holiday to be determined by CAO. The City
Commission will be informed of these changes at least one week in advance.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-
05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.51 ANNUAL LEAVE (VACATION).
   Annual leave is important to the employees’ health and well- being and
provides rest and offers a change of pace. Alleligible employees of the city
shall be granted annual leave at full pay at their current salary rate. The
following schedule shall apply:
   (A)   Full-time employees and semi full-time employees:
      (1)   Vacation leave shall be computed using the employee’s anniversary
date of hire as the designated date.
      (2)   The following table shows accrual rates for employees based on time
of service:
 
Length of Service Vacation Days Accrual per pay period
1 year            5             1.5 hours
2 years           10            3.1 hours
3 years +         15            4.6 hours
 
      (3)   Vacation leave may not be taken until accrued unless otherwise
authorized by the CAO and General Government Commissioner.
      (4)   An employee may carry over up to five days of vacation into the new
year.
      (5)   Semi-full time employees shall be eligible for the same vacation
benefits as a full-time employee, but on a pro-rated basis.
      (6)   Scheduling of all leave shall be coordinated and approved by the
CAO.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 15-04,
passed 6-23-15; Am. Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.52 MILITARY LEAVE.
   All employees of the city who are members of the National Guard or any
reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States shall be entitled to
a leave of absence with full pay for a period not exceeding 15 calendar days in
any one calendar year for the purpose of attending annual mandatory training.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-
05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.53 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   Each employee shall be granted sick leave at the rate of one day
(eight hours) per month.
   (B)   Employees shall be able to carry over up to a maximum of five sick
days (40 hours).
   (C)   Sick leave must be used for illness, disability, attending to a member
of the immediate family who is ill, and dental or medical appointments, and
when inclement weather makes travel hazardous, as authorized by the CAO.
   (D)   Physician’s statements may be required on any occasion by the CAO.
   (E)   Physician’s statements shall be required from an attending physician
after three or more consecutive sick days.
   (F)   Semi full-time and permanent part-time employees shall be eligible for
the same sick leave benefits as a full-time employee, but on a pro-rated basis.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-
05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.54 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE.
   (A)   Full-time, semi full-time, and permanent part-time employees may be
granted up to five working days with pay in case of death in the "immediate
family", including: parents, stepparents, spouse, brother, sister, children,
and immediate in-laws.
   (B)   Full-time, semi-full-time, and permanent part-time employees may be
granted up to three working days with pay in case of death in the "family",
including: grandparents (or-in-law), or grandchildren.
   (C)   Full-time, semi full-time, and permanent part-time employees may be
granted up to two working days with pay in case of death in the "extended
family", including: brother-in-law, sister-in-law, uncles, aunts, cousins,
nieces, and nephews.
   (D)   Requests for additional time off with or without pay may be submitted
and are granted at the discretion of the CAO. The employee should discuss the
circumstance with the CAO and approval or denial will be made with regards to
workload, employee circumstances, and all other pertinent factors.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.55 MATERNITY/PATERNITY LEAVE.
   (A)   Requests for maternity/paternity leave will be granted for a period of
time up to, but not exceeding, three months. Under extenuating circumstances
and with a physician’s certificate, additional maternity leave may be granted.
   (B)   An employee who is not planning to return to work following maternity/
paternity leave is requested to submit a timely resignation to allow the city’s
staffing needs to be met. Any employee who has not notified the city of their
intention to resign and does not show up following maternity/paternity leave
for three consecutive working days is considered separated from their
employment with the city.
   (C)   Maternity/paternity leave as enumerated in division (A),shall be
unpaid for the three months.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-
05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.56 LEAVE WITHOUT PAY.
   A leave of absence without pay up to a maximum of ten working days may be
granted provided it does not seriously disrupt the operation of the employees’
duties. A leave of absence can only be used after all vacation days have been
depleted.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.57 JURY DUTY.
   In the event an employee is required to serve on a jury, he/she shall be
compensated at the normal salary rate. All employees serving on jury duty shall
be absent from work only during the times required by the courts.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-
05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.58 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The city shall carry health insurance policies and provide 100%
payment of premiums for the employee and family of full-time employees.
   (B)   The city provides $50,000 in life insurance for all full- time
employees, with 100% of premiums paid by the city.
   (C)   All elected officials, City Attorney, City Engineer, City Treasurer,
City Bookkeeper, City Administrative Officer, City Executive Assistant,
consultants, temporary professionals, service contractors, seasonal/part-time
employees and all volunteers are covered by Risk Liability Insurance issued by
the Kentucky League of Cities.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 15-04,
passed 6-23-15; Am. Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.59 EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   All officials or employees of the city incurring expenses for approved
travel on behalf of the city shall be reimbursed at the actual rate of
expenditures. Receipts for all expenditures should be obtained and submitted
for reimbursement.
   (B)   If employees must use their private automobile, they shall be
reimbursed at the standard mileage rate, as set forth by the IRS annually.
   (C)   Failure to provide a receipt and other applicable supporting
documentation will result in denial of the reimbursement, unless the expense is
accompanied by an approved Missing Receipt Affidavit.
   (D)   An employee who submitted a fraudulent receipt or falsifies their
expense report will lose reimbursement privileges, will be terminated, or other
appropriate disciplinary action will be taken.
   (E)   The city may withhold reimbursement while it investigates or verifies
expense report reimbursement requests.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-
05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.60 WORKERS COMPENSATION INSURANCE.
   Workers Compensation Insurance provides medical and hospitalization expense
benefits as well as partial payments in lieu of salary for workers injured on
the job. The city pays 100% of this form of insurance.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-
05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.61 UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE.
   All employees are covered under this program. The city pays 100% of the cost
for this coverage. An individual who terminates their employment with the city
may or may not be eligible to receive payments under this program, depending
upon the circumstances involved in the termination.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-
05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.62 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   The city and the employee both contribute to the Social Security program at
rates specified by the U.S. Congress.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-
05, Series 20123, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.63 RETIREMENT.
   Each full-time and semi full-time permanent employee must participate in the
Kentucky Retirement System through the City/County Employment Retirement System
(CERS). During employment, the city contributes monthly per pay period on
behalf of the employee, at a rate set forth by the Kentucky Public Pension
Authority.
(Ord. 92-05, passed 11-19-92; Ord. 98-06, passed 6-8-98; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed
12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.64 FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (FMLA).
   In accordance with federal law, the city will grant 12 weeks of unpaid leave
of absence for employees: (1) to care for a family member with a serious health
condition; (2) because a serious health condition of an employee makes the
employee unable to perform the functions of his/her job; or (3) in conjunction
with the birth, adoption, or foster placement of a child. This leave will be
granted to any employee who has been employed by the city at least 12 months
and has worked 1,250 hours within those 12 months. The employee must give
advance notice of 30 days for foreseeable events like planned medical
treatment. For medical emergencies, the employee must give notice as promptly
as possible. Parenting leave begins at the time requested, but no later than
six weeks after the birth or adoption, or when the child leaves the hospital,
whichever is later. Upon request for medical leave, the city will require
certification of the condition from an appropriate health care provider.
Depending upon the need, which is certified, leave may be taken intermittently
or on a reduced leave schedule. Employees on FMLA leave may be required to take
accrued vacation or sick leave concurrently.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
GENERAL EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
§ 37.80 SEXUAL AND NONSEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Sexual and nonsexual harassment of any kind is absolutely prohibited
and will not be tolerated. Sexual and nonsexual harassment negatively affects
morale, motivation, and job performance. It is inappropriate, offensive, and
illegal.
   (B)   Sexual harassment on the job is employment discrimination within the
meaning of Title VII of the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964 and KRS Ch. 344.
In general, sexual harassment means any unwelcome or offensive sexual advances,
requests for sexual favors, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual
nature, either by a supervisor, fellow employee, or a person other than an
employee who has contact with the city employees. Sexual harassment is
unacceptable and is prohibited at work and in work-related settings, such as
business trips, business-related meetings, conferences, and employee-related
social events. Behavior that constitutes sexual harassment includes, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Deliberate, repeated, or unsolicited verbal comments, gestures, or
physical actions of a sexual nature toward another employee.
      (2)   Approval, recommendation of, or refusal to take any personnel
action with respect to an employee or applicant because of:
         (a)   The employee's or applicant's rejection of sexual advances,
demands, favors, or sexual activity; or
         (b)   The employee's or applicant's report of a sexual advance or
demand for sexual activity.
      (3)   Explicit or implicit promises of preferential treatment regarding
an individual's employment status in return for sexual favors or sexual
activity.
      (4)   Exercise or attempted exercise of the power or authority of one's
position to control, influence, or affect the career, salary, job, or other
employment conditions of an employee or applicant in exchange for sexual
favors.
      (5)   Repeated sexual jokes, flirtations, advances, or propositions.
      (6)   Graphic verbal commentary about an individual's body, sexual
prowess, or sexual deficiencies.
      (7)   Leering, whistling, touching, pinching, assault, coerced sexual
acts, or suggestive, insulting, or obscene comments or gestures.
      (8)   The display in the workplace of sexually suggestive objects,
pictures or reading material.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.81 WORKPLACE VIOLENCE.
   (A)   The safety and security of all employees is of primary importance to
the city. Threats, abusive behavior, or acts of violence against employees,
citizens, or other individuals by anyone on city property or off city property
while performing job duties related to the city will not be tolerated. Actions
of this nature will lead to referral to appropriate law enforcement agencies
for arrest and prosecution. City employees who exhibit this type of behavior
will be disciplined or discharged. The city may take any necessary legal action
to protect its employees and will make every effort to assist any employee
experiencing threats of violence.
   (B)   Any person who makes threats, exhibits threatening behavior, or
engages in violent acts on city premises shall be removed from the premises as
quickly as safety permits and shall remain off city premises pending the
outcome of an investigation. Any employee who makes threats, exhibits
threatening behavior, or engages in violent acts while in performance of his or
her employment duties shall be immediately suspended, pending the outcome of an
investigation of the incident. Following investigation, the city will initiate
an immediate and appropriate response, which may include, but is not limited
to, suspension and/or termination of any business relationship, reassignment of
job duties, suspension or termination of employment, and/or criminal
prosecution of the person or persons involved.
   (C)   All employees are responsible for notifying city management personnel
of any threats that they witness or receive or that they are told another
person witnessed or received. Even without a specific threat, all employees
should report any behavior they have witnessed, that they regard potentially
threatening or violent or which could endanger the health or safety of an
employee when the behavior has been carried out on a city-controlled site or is
connected to city employment or city business. Employees are responsible for
making this report regardless of the relationship between the individual who
initiated the threatening behavior and the person or persons being threatened.
   (D)   Employees are encouraged to notify the CAO if an Emergency Protection
Order (EPO) or Domestic Violence Order (DVO) has been issued for their
protection.
   (E)   The city will make every effort to assist an employee experiencing
threats of violence. Assistance may include:
      (1)   Confidential means for coming forward for help;
      (2)   Leave of absence consideration; and
      (3)   Special safety considerations at the workplace.
   (F)   The city understands the sensitivity of the information requested and
will respect the privacy of the reporting employee to the extent allowed by
law. The city will endeavor to maintain the anonymity of a reporting party to
the extent feasible for cooperation with appropriate law enforcement officials.
   (G)   Any employee who acts in good faith by reporting real or implied
violent behavior will not be subjected to any form of retaliation or
harassment.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.82 DRUG AND ALCOHOL-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   The city's mission is to ensure that all public service is delivered
safely, efficiently, and effectively by establishing a drug- and alcohol-free
work environment, and to ensure that the workplace remains free from the
effects of drugs and alcohol to promote the health and safety of employees and
the general public. In keeping with this mission, the city declares that the
unlawfiil manufacture, distribution, dispense, possession, or use of controlled
substances or misuse of alcohol is prohibited for all employees. The city has a
zero-tolerance policy regarding drug and alcohol use, violation of this policy
relating to on-the-job possession, distribution, use, or sale of illegal drugs
shall result in the immediate dismissal from employment with the city.
   (B)   This policy is intended to apply whenever anyone is representing or
conducting business for the city. Accordingly, this policy applies during all
working hours, on call or paid standby and while performing work on behalf of
the city while on or off city property.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.83 MEALS AND REST PERIODS.
   (A)   Unless other arrangements are made with the CAO, all employees are
expected to take a one-hour lunch period each workday which shall occur no
sooner than three hours after the employee begins his or her work shift and no
later than five hours after the employee begins his or her work shift. However,
an employee and the CAO may agree to make a reasonable alternative schedule for
a meal period on a temporary basis and any such change should be noted in
writing.
   (B)   Employees are encouraged to schedule their personal breaks as workflow
allows. The total time taken for personal breaks should not exceed 15 minutes
during each four hours worked. No reduction in compensation shall be made for
time spent on personal breaks taken in conformance with this policy for either
exempt or nonexempt employees.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.84 INCLEMENT WEATHER.
   (A)   The closure of City Hall offices due to inclement weather will be
authorized by the CAO.
   (B)   If City Hall offices remain closed for an entire day due to inclement
weather, all employees scheduled to work will be paid for the number of hours
they were scheduled to work. If a closure of City Hall offices occurs while the
city is open, employees will be paid for any remaining scheduled hours.
   (C)   If the City Hall offices open on a delayed basis due to inclement
weather, employees who report to work will receive credit for regularly
scheduled hours for that day.
   (D)   The CAO or a designated employee of their choice will utilize the
REACH Alert system to notify the public of any closures or delays, and the City
Commission will be notified via email.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.85 STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   Each employee is a representative of the city, both internally with
coworkers and externally with citizens, contractors, business associates,
affiliates, and others. As a representative of the city, each employee is
expected to act professionally, honestly, ethically, courteously and with
integrity in all business transactions and interpersonal interactions while at
work or in any activity performed on behalf of the city.
   (B)   The city expects all employees to conduct themselves in a
professional, mature, and lawful manner. Employees must comply with established
rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and directives. The failure to do so
will ultimately result in disciplinary action. In an effort to avoid
misunderstandings about the types of conduct that must be avoided, a non-
exhaustive list of specific infractions is provided below purely for
informational purposes as a general guide for employees:
      (1)   Unexcused tardiness;
      (2)   Unexcused and excessive absenteeism;
      (3)   Failure to perform an assigned task, to meet a deadline, or
otherwise follow an instruction or directive;
      (4)   Insubordination or willful refusal to follow instructions, rules,
regulations, policies, or to accept assignments;
      (5)   Misuse of leave time;
      (6)   Intentional or unintentional violations of the policies and
procedures in this chapter;
      (7)   Inability to perform duties or requirements of the job because of
the loss of necessary license or other requirements;
      (8)   Discourteous behavior toward the public or other employees;
      (9)   Theft or embezzlement of the city property or assets;
      (10)   Use, possession, sale or transfer of illegal drugs, or being under
the influence of illegal drugs in any manner that may impair the employee's
ability to perform assigned duties or that may adversely affect the city's
business or reputation;
      (11)   Personal behavior, whether on-or off duty, which is of
embarrassment to the city and likely to damage the public reputation of the
organization, or which is injurious to the interests of fellow employees;
      (12)   Falsification of records;
      (13)   Invasion of another employee's privacy;
      (14)   Assault or fighting;
      (15)   Conviction of a serious criminal offense which jeopardizes or is
injurious to the city's property and security, its public reputation, or the
interests of other employees, or which is incompatible with the due and
faithful discharge of duties and responsibilities;
      (16)   Sexual or nonsexual harassment; or
      (17)   Horseplay or pranks which threaten the safety and security of the
workplace or are offensive to other employees.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.86 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACCEPTABLE USE.
   (A)   This policy is designed to establish acceptable and appropriate use of
computer and information systems, networks and other information technology
resources at the city. The purpose of these policies is to safeguard and
protect all technology resources from anything other than authorized and
intended use. The main points to remember are:
      (1)   The city provides network, communications systems, equipment and
devices ("technology resources") to carry out legitimate city business. By
using the city's technology resources, staff consents to disclosing the
contents of any data files, information and communications created on, stored
on, transmitted, received or exchanged via its network, communications systems,
equipment or devices.
      (2)   There is no right to privacy in the use of city technology
resources. By using the city's technology resources, staff consents to
monitoring, recording, and reviewing the use of that technology resource.
      (3)   Users are expected to act lawfully, ethically and professionally,
and to exercise common sense.
      (4)   Users who are granted access to critical data are responsible for
its protection.
      (5)   Incidental use for personal needs is allowed as long as that
activity does not interfere with city business or conflict with any city policy
or work rule.
      (6)   Use of technology in violation of this policy is subject to
disciplinary action up to and including termination.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.87 EMPLOYEE PRIVACY EXPECTATIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding issues addressed specifically in other provisions of
this chapter, employees can expect a reasonable degree of privacy in the
contents of their work areas, including desks, cabinets, closets, and similar
locations. However, when an employee is absent or otherwise unavailable, the
city may seek out, for a legitimate business purpose, material believed to be
contained in those work areas with the authorization of the CAO.
   (B)   The CAO may examine work area contents or listen to employee
communications of their subordinate employees for the purpose of ascertaining
or evaluating the quality and/or quantity of an employee's work.
   (C)   The contents of work areas may be subject to search where there is a
reasonable cause to believe there is a violation of these policies or evidence
of a violation of any local, state, or federal law. Searches of work areas for
this reason may only be conducted with the consent and involvement of the CAO.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.88 SMOKE-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   The city has a strict no-smoking policy in all city buildings to
provide a safe and healthy environment for all employees and customers.
   (B)   Smoking, use of e-cigarettes, vaporizers (vape), or chewing tobacco is
prohibited:
      (1)   In any city building;
      (2)   In any city vehicle; or
      (3)   In any other place where prohibited by law or city ordinance.
   (C)   Designated smoking areas outside and away from entrances to city
buildings will be specified for employees.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.89 OPEN RECORDS POLICY.
   KRS 61.870 to KRS 61.884, the Open Records Act, establishes a right of
access to public records. The General Assembly recognized that the free and
open examination of public records is in the public interest. All public
records, whether they are stored in a computer or on paper, must be open for
inspection unless the records are exempted by one or more of the exemptions
found in the Act.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.90 CITY SOCIAL MEDIA.
   (A)   The city may utilize social media and social network sites to further
communicate with citizens. Employees and/or Commissioners may not use social
media as a representative of the city without approval from the full Board of
Commissioners and/or CAO.
   (B)   For purposes of this policy, "social media" is understood to be
content created by individuals, using the internet. Examples of social media
include Facebook, blogs, Instagram, RSS, YouTube, Second Life, Twitter,
LinkedIn, NextDoor, and Flicker.
   (C)   For purposes of this policy, "comments" include information,
articles, pictures, videos or any other form of communicative content posted on
the city's social media site.
   (D)   The establishment and use by any city department of city social media
sites are subject to approval by the CAO.
   (E)   City social media sites should clearly state they are maintained by
the city and that they follow the City's Social Media Policy. All social media
sites shall clearly indicate that any content posted or submitted for posting
is subject to public disclosure.
   (F)   The site should adhere to all applicable state, federal and local
laws, regulations and policies including city information technology and
records management policies.
   (G)   The designated coordinator of the social media site will monitor
content on the social media site to ensure adherence to both the city's Social
Media Policy and the interest and goals of the city. The city reserves the
right to restrict or remove any content that is deemed in violation of this
Social Media Policy or any applicable law. Any content removed based on these
guidelines must be retained by the designated coordinator as determined by the
record retention policy including the time, date and identity of the poster,
when available.
   (H)   The city's website is www.hurstboume.org and will remain the city's
primary and predominant internet presence. All city social media sites shall
clearly indicate they are maintained by the city and shall have the
government's contact information prominently displayed. Whenever possible, the
city's social media sites should link back to the city's official website for
forms, documents, online services and other information necessary to conduct
business with the city.
   (I)   All social networking coordinators shall be trained regarding the
terms of the Social Media Policy, including their responsibilities to review
content submitted for posting to ensure compliance with the policy. When
possible, the city's IT security policies shall apply to all social networking
sites and articles.
   (J)   Employees representing the city via the city's social media sites must
conduct themselves at all times as a representative of the city and in
accordance with all city policies.
   (K)   The city will post the following on any social media page in a
conspicuous location: Comments placed on the social media site are subject to
the following guidelines:
      (1)   As a public entity the city must abide by certain standards to
serve all its constituents in a civil and unbiased manner.
      (2)   The city's social media sites prohibit the posting of content and/
or comments containing any of the following:
         (a)   Comments not topically related to the particular site or blog
article being commented upon;
         (b)   Profane language or content;
         (c)   Content that promotes, fosters or perpetuates discrimination on
the basis of race, creed, color, age, religion, gender, marital status, status
with regard to public assistance, national origin, physical or mental
disability or sexual orientation;
         (d)   Sexual content or links to sexual content;
         (e)   Solicitations of commerce;
         (f)   Conduct or encouragement of illegal activity;
         (g)   Information that may tend to compromise the safety or security
of the public; or
         (h)   Content that violates a legal ownership interest of any other
party.
      (3)   The city reserves the right to deny access to city's social media
sites for any individual who violates the City's Social Media Policy, at any
time and without prior notice.
      (4)   Departments within the city shall monitor their social media sites
for comments requesting responses from the city and for comments in violation
of this policy.
      (5)   When a city employee responds to a comment in his or her capacity
as a city employee, the employee's name and title shall be made available, and
the employee shall not share personal information about himself or herself, or
other city employees.
      (6)   All comments posted to any city social media site are bound by
Social Media's Statement of Rights and Responsibilities, and the city reserves
the right to report any violation of a Social Media's Statement of Rights and
Responsibilities to the social media site with the intent of the social media
site taking appropriate and reasonable responsive action.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
§ 37.91 EMPLOYEE GUIDELINES FOR PARTICIPATING IN SOCIAL NETWORKING.
   (A)   The city understands that social networking and internet services have
become a common form of communication in the workplace and among citizens.
Employees that choose to participate in social networks as a city employee
should adhere to the following guidelines:
      (1)   City policies, rules, regulations and standards of conduct apply to
employees that engage in social networking activities while conducting city
business. Use of your city email address and communicating in your official
capacity will constitute conducting city business.
      (2)   Department heads shall notify the CAO if they or any employees
within their department intend to create a social networking site or service to
conduct city business.
      (3)   Departments have the option of allowing employees to participate in
existing social networking sites as part of their job duties. Department
supervisors may allow or disallow employee participation in any social
networking activities in their departments.
      (4)   Protect your privacy and the privacy of citizens by following all
privacy protection laws, i.e., HIPAA, and protect sensitive and confidential
city information.
      (5)   Follow all copyright laws, public records laws, retention laws,
fair use and financial disclosure laws and any other laws that might apply to
the city or your department.
      (6)   Do not cite vendors, suppliers, clients, citizens, coworkers or
other stakeholders without their approval.
      (7)   Make it clear that you are speaking for yourself and not on behalf
of the city. If you publish content on any website outside of the city and it
has something to do with the work you do or subjects associated with the city.
      (8)   Do not use ethnic slurs, profanity, personal insults, or engage in
any conduct that would not be acceptable in the city's workplace. Avoid
comments or topics that may be considered objectionable or inflammatory.
      (9)   If you identify yourself as a city employee, ensure your profile
and related content is consistent with how you wish to present yourself to
colleagues, citizens and stakeholders.
      (10)   Frame any comments or opposing views in a positive manner. Add
value to the city through your interaction by providing worthwhile information
and perspective.
(Ord. 2023-23-05, Series 2023, passed 12-12-23)
CHAPTER 38: ETHICS CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   Title
   
38.02   Findings
   
38.03   Purpose and authority
   
38.04   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
38.15   Conflicts of interest in general
   
38.16   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
38.17   Receipt of gifts
   
38.18   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
38.19   Representation of interests before city government
   
38.20   Misuse of confidential information
   
38.21   Post-employment restriction
   
38.22   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
38.30   Who must file
   
38.31   When to file statements; amended statements
   
38.32   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
38.33   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
38.34   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
38.35   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
38.45   Nepotism prohibited
Administration and Enforcement
   
38.50   Board of Ethics created
   
38.51   Alternate members
   
38.52   Facilities and staff
   
38.53   Power and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
38.54   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
38.55   Notice of hearings
   
38.56   Hearing procedure
   
38.57   Appeals
   
38.58   Limitation of actions
   
38.59   Advisory opinions
   
38.60   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
   
38.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Code of Ethics.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.02 FINDINGS.
   The City Commission of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts.
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public's confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled.
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.03 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide officers and employees of the city
with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest which
might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003 as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "BUSINESS." Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   "BOARD OF ETHICS." The Board of Ethics which is created and vested by this
chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the city's
code of ethics.
   "CANDIDATE." Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
office. An individual is a candidate when the individual files a notification
and declaration for nomination for office with the county clerk or secretary of
state, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the county clerk or secretary of
state.
   "CITY." Refers to the city of Hurstbourne, Kentucky.
   "CITY AGENCY." Any board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   "EMPLOYEE." Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term "EMPLOYEE"
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   "FAMILY MEMBER." A spouse, a child (including a step-child), or an
individual claimed as a dependent for tax purposes by a city official or
employee.
   "OFFICER." Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The mayor;
      (2)   A City Commission member;
      (3)   The city clerk;
      (4)   Any person who occupies a non-elected office created under KRS
83A.080; or
      (5)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 38.15 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or family member of any officer or employee,
shall have an interest in a business, transaction, or activity, which is in
substantial conflict with the proper discharge of the officer's or employee's
public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself, herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce any other officer or employee to take or
refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter before the city in
order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employee;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer, employee or any family member
has a financial interest; or
      (5)   Any business in which the officer, employee or any family member is
negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or professional
relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer's or employee's participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as defined in
subdivision (C)(4) and (5) of this section, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision, or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.16 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city agency, except as
follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply to
contracts entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city
office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office, or before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However,
if any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as
an employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in division
(A) of this section shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply if
the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in subdivision (3)
below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply in
any case where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer's or employee's interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency;
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed;
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or
other specific reasons; or
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.17 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.18 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.19 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.20 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.21 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer's or
employee's service with the city or city agency.
(Ord. 94.11, passed 12-16-94) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.22 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium, or gift with a fair market value greater than $100 in
consideration of an appearance, speech or article unless the appearance, speech
or article is both related to the officer's or employee's activities outside of
municipal service and is unrelated to the officer's or employee's service with
the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech or article,
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not primarily
for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94) Penalty, see §
38.99
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 38.30 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials; and
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.31 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than 4:30 p.m. February 1, 1995. All subsequent statements of financial
interest shall be filed no later than 4:30 p.m. on January 15th each year,
provided that:
      (1)   An officer newly elected to fill an office or position of
employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her initial
statement no later than 30 days after the date of the election.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer shall,
no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material change, file an
amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.32 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer required to file the statement, by first class
mail or hand delivery, no later than December 15th of each year. The failure of
the Board, or the designated administrative official, to deliver a copy of the
form to any officer shall not relieve the officer of the obligation to file the
statement.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.33 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the "official custodian" of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests
shall be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated by the Board of Ethics as the "custodian," as public documents,
available for public inspection immediately upon filing. Until changed by the
Board of Ethics, the City Clerk is hereby named the designated administrative
official and the custodian for all purposes under this chapter.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for such periods as are prescribed by
the Kentucky Archives and Records Commission, or in default of such
regulations, for a period of three years.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.34 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer.
      (2)   The title of the filer's office, office sought, or position of
employment.
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer's spouse.
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income for the filer and
the filer's immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, etc.), provided, however, the filer
may list for himself/herself and the filer's immediate family, as a single
item, dividends and interest on stocks and bonds listed and customarily sold or
traded on national or regional stock exchanges.
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer's family had at any time during the
preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value or five
percent ownership interest or more.
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer's
family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest of
$10,000 at fair market value or five percent ownership interest or more.
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer's primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more.
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer's family during the preceding calendar year, and excluding gifts from
sources which have not done any business with the city in the past five years
and is not reasonably expected to do business with the city in the next three
years.
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purpose of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for personal, family or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income, nor to require
the listing under division (A)(5) or (6) of stock or bond ownership of stocks
and bonds listed and customarily sold or traded on national or regional stock
exchanges where the company has not done business with the city for the past
five years and is not reasonably expected to do business with the city in the
next three years.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.35 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
division (A) of this section within the time period established in the notice
shall be guilty of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed
by the Board in an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total
civil fine of $500. Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may
be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the
offender fails or refuses to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of
time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94) Penalty, see §
38.99
NEPOTISM.
§ 38.45 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend, or cause the: employment; appointment; promotion; transfer; or
advancement of a family member to an office or position of employment with the
city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
September 1, 1994, nor to seasonal, temporary, or part-time employment, or
where the employment relationship is approved in an open meeting by one more
than a majority of the City Commission. (Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94) Penalty,
see §
38.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 38.50 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of not less than one nor more than
five members who shall be appointed by the executive authority of the city,
subject to the approval of the City Commission. The initial members of the
Board of Ethics shall be appointed within 60 days of the effective date of this
chapter. No member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any elected or appointed
office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city or
any city agency. The members shall serve for a term of three years, except that
with respect to the members initially appointed, one year, one member shall be
appointed for a term of two years, and one member shall be appointed for a term
of three years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a term of three
years. Each member of the Board of Ethics shall have been a resident of the
city for at least one year prior to the date of the appointment and shall
reside in the city throughout the term in office. The members of the Board of
Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of their known and consistent reputation for
integrity and their knowledge of local government affairs. The members may be
re-appointed for any number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the executive
authority, subject to the approval of the City Commission for misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect of duties. Before any member of the Board of
Ethics is removed from office under this section, the member shall be afforded
the opportunity for a hearing before the executive authority and the City
Commission.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
executive authority, subject to the approval of the City Commission. If a
vacancy is not filled by the executive authority within 60 days, the remaining
members of the Board of Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be
filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation, but
shall be reimbursed for all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a chairperson from among the
membership. The chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of a majority of the members shall constitute a quorum
and the affirmative vote of a number of members equal to a quorum shall be
necessary for any official action to be taken. Any member of the Board of
Ethics who has a conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be
considered by the Board shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall
disqualify himself or herself from voting on the matter, and shall not be
counted for purposes of establishing a quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.51 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The executive authority of the city, with the approval of the City
Commission may appoint two alternate members of the Board of Ethics who may be
called upon to serve when any regular member of the Board is unable to
discharge his or her duties. An alternate member shall be appointed for a term
of one year. Alternate members shall meet all qualifications and be subject to
all of the requirements of this chapter that apply to regular members.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.52 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the City Commission in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies, and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.53 POWER AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties.
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths.
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board.
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
executive authority of the city, the City Commission, the governing body of any
city agency, the county attorney, or other appropriate person or body as
necessary.
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city agency officers and employees
regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would constitute a
violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter.
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to insure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Kentucky Open Records Act.
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or City Commission of
the city.
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.54 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date of receipt.
The Board shall forward within ten working days to each officer or employee of
the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy of the
complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth's attorney or county
attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of loss to the city
and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence in city
government, issue, in writing, a confidential reprimand to the officer or
employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the executive authority and governing body of the
city or city agency; or
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.55 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order is issued.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.56 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however,
the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
of the city or city agency with which the violator serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body that the violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may
include a recommendation for discipline or dismissal or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; and
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the county attorney or commonwealth's attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.57 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the circuit court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall
transmit to the clerk of the court all evidence considered by the Board at the
public hearing.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.58 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.59 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requester.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents,
except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so
that the identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either in
writing by the person who requested the opinion or by majority vote of the
members of the Board, if a person makes or purports to make public the
substance or any portion of an advisory opinion requested by or on behalf of
the person. The Board may vote to make public the advisory opinion request and
related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.60 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the Commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
§ 38.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other
officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to
remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter
shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and all applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 12-16-94)
APPENDIX A: FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT
FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT
   In accordance with City of Hurstbourne Ordinance No. 94-11, this statement
of financial interests is required to be filed with the Board of Ethics, by
filing with the City Clerk as the administrative official designated as the
custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later than January 31st of
each year. A newly-appointed officer or employee must file this statement no
later than thirty (30) days after the date of appointment. A candidate for city
office must file this statement no later than thirty (30) days after the date
on which the person becomes a candidate for elected city office.
   Note: Nothing in this financial interests statement should be construed to
require any officer, employee or candidate to disclose any specific dollar
amounts nor the names of individual clients or customers of businesses listed
as sources of income.
1.   Name:
2.   Current Address(es)
   a.   Business         b.   Home
                                                                                                               
                                                                                                               
                                                                                                               
   Telephone:                                                     Telephone:
                                                   
3.   Occupation
   a.   Filer:            b.   Spouse
                                                                                                               
                                                                                                               
                     Name of Spouse (if any)
4.   Please identify any source of income of the filer and the filer's
immediate family members that exceeds $5,000 during the preceding calendar
year, and the nature of the income (e.g. salary, commission, dividends,
retirement fund distribution, etc.), on Schedule A, attached hereto.
5.   Please list the name and address of any business located within the state
in which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had at any
time during the preceding calendar year an interest of ten thousand dollars
($10,000) at fair market value or five percent (5%) ownership or more on
Schedule B, attached hereto. Do not list stock or bond ownership of stocks and
bonds listed and customarily sold or traded on national or regional stock
exchanges where the company has not done business with the city for the past
five (5) years and is not reasonably expected to do business with the city in
the next three years.
6.   Please list the name and address of any business located outside of the
state, if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city
during the past three (3) years, or which is anticipated to engage in any
business transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the
filer's immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an
interest of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) at fair market value or five percent
(5%) ownership interest or more on Schedule C, attached hereto. Do not list
stock or bond ownership of stocks and bonds listed and customarily sold or
traded on national or regional stock exchanges where the company has not done
business with the city for the past five (5) years and is not reasonably
expected to do business with the city in the next three years.
7.   Please designate as either commercial, residential or rural and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer's primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of ten thousand dollars
($10,000) or more, on Schedule D, attached hereto.
8.   Please list each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having
an aggregate fair market value of one hundred dollars ($100) or more from any
single source, excluding gifts received from family members, received by the
filer or any member of the filer's immediate family during the preceding
calendar year on Schedule E, attached hereto. Do not list gifts from sources
which have not done any business with the city in the past five (5) years and
is not reasonably expected to do business with the city in the next three
years.
9.   Please list the name and address of any creditor owed more than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000), except debts arising from the purchase of a primary
residence or the purchase of consumer goods which are bought or used primarily
for person, family or household purposes, on Schedule F, attached.
   The undersigned hereby certifies that the foregoing and the attached
Schedules are true and accurate as he/she verily believes, and agrees that
supplemental or amended schedules or disclosures will be filed in the event of
any material change of circumstances.
   Dated:
                                                                                              
                     Signature of person filing
   For Administrative use only:
   Date Filed:                                             
   Received by:                                            
Schedule A - Income Sources of Filer and Immediate Family Members
   Please identify any source of income of the filer and the filer's immediate
family members that exceeds $5,000 during the preceding calendar year, and the
nature of the income (e.g. salary, commission, dividends, retirement fund
distribution, etc.) (Item 4).
   Income RecipientSource of IncomeType of Income
   Check here if the filer or any member of filer's immediate family had income
of over $5,000 as dividends and interest on stocks and bonds listed and
customarily sold or traded on national or regional stock exchanges and do not
list elsewhere on this form.
   1.
   2.
   3.
   4.
   5.
   6.
   7.
   8.
   9.
   10.
   11.
   12.
 
Schedule B - Statement of Business Interests Within State
   Please list the name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of ten thousand dollars
($10,000) at fair market value or five percent (5%) ownership or more (Item 5).
Do not list stock or bond ownership of stocks and bonds listed and customarily
sold or traded on national or regional stock exchanges where the company has
not done business with the city for the past five (5) years and is not
reasonably expected to do business with the city in the next three years.
 
Person Having Interest Business Name and Address Other
   1.
   2.
   3.
   4.
   5.
 
Schedule C - Statement of Business Interests Outside of State
   Please list the name and address of any business located outside of the
state, if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city
during the past three (3) years, or which is anticipated to engage in any
business transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the
filer's immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an
interest of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) at fair market value or five percent
(5%) ownership interest or more (Item 6). Do not list stock or bond ownership
of stocks and bonds listed and customarily sold or traded on national or
regional stock exchanges where the company has not done business with the city
for the past five (5) years and is not reasonably expected to do business with
the city in the next three years.
 
Person Having Interest Business Name and Address Other
   1.
   2.
   3.
 
Schedule D - Real Estate Owned Within Jefferson County, Kentucky
   Please designate as either commercial, residential or rural and the location
of all real property within the county, other than the filer's primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of ten thousand dollars
($10,000) or more (Item 7).
 
                                               Type. i.e.
Person Having Interest Location of Real Estate Residential
                                               Commercial, or Rural
   1.
   2.
   3.
   4.
   5.
   6.
 
Schedule E - Statement of Gifts or Honoraria
   Please list each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of one hundred dollars ($100) or more from any
single source, excluding gifts received from family members, received by the
filer or any member of the filer's immediate family during the preceding
calendar year (Item 8). Do not list gifts from sources which have not done any
business with the city in the past five (5) years and is not reasonably
expected to do business with the city in the next three years.
 
Recipient Source Other
   1.
   2.
   3.
 
Schedule F - Creditor List
   Please list the name and address of any creditor owed more than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000), except debts arising from the purchase of a primary
residence or the purchase of consumer goods which are bought or used primarily
for person, family or household purposes (Item 9).
 
Debtor Creditor Other
   1.
   2.
   3.
   4.
   5.
 
CHAPTER 39: GENERAL POLICIES
Section
   
39.01   Civil penalties for violation of city ordinances
§ 39.01 CIVIL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF CITY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Any violation of any ordinance of the City of Hurstbourne shall
subject the offender to fines, penalties, and forfeitures that may be imposed
by law, and the city may secure injunctions and abatement orders, when
appropriate, to ensure compliance with its ordinances as authorized by KRS
83A.065.
   (B)   Any violation of any ordinance of the city shall subject the offender
to a civil penalty in an amount equal to two times the minimum fine prescribed
in the ordinance violated.
   (C)   Where no minimum fine is prescribed in the ordinance violated, or
where the fine is set by KRS, the civil penalty shall be $50, provided,
however, such fine shall not be less than the minimum criminal fine prescribed
by Kentucky statute for the same offense.
   (D)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty
within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the ordinance violation.
As used herein, "CITED" shall mean notified of the violation and the penalty in
writing by an elected or appointed official of the city or the official
attorney for the city. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative to or in
conjunction with the criminal penalties authorized in the ordinance violated.
   (E)   All civil penalties shall be paid to the city at the address shown on
the citation, and placed in the General Fund.
   (F)   Any city ordinance may be enforced by any one, all, or a combination
of the remedies authorized by this section or the ordinance violated.
   (G)   Where any ordinance provides that each day a violation of the
ordinance continues shall be a separate and distinct offense, a separate civil
penalty may be imposed for each such day.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 4-13-04) General penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 40: CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
Section
   
40.01   Definitions
   
40.02   Creation and membership
   
40.03   Enforcement powers
   
40.04   Appointment of members, terms of office, removal from office, oath,
compensation
   
40.05   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum
   
40.06   Conflict of interest
   
40.07   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
40.08   Hearing Officer
   
40.09   Enforcement proceedings
   
40.10   Hearing, notice and final order
   
40.11   Presentation of cases
   
40.12   Appeals; final judgment
   
40.13   Ordinance fine schedule
   
40.14   Liens, fines, charges and fees
   
40.15   Lienholder notification system
   
40.16   Liens
   
40.17   Immediate action
§ 40.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   “ABATEMENT COSTS.” A city’s necessary and reasonable costs for and
associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, demolishing all or
a portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to
a structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   “CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.” An administrative body created and acting under
the authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801
to 65.8839, or joint authority by virtue of having in place an interlocal
cooperation agreement to perform and enforce the duties of a code enforcement
board.
   “CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.” A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, alcohol beverage control officer or other public law enforcement
officer with the authority to issue a citation.
   “FINAL ORDER.” Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board in accordance with §
40.10 of this chapter;
      (2)   Issued by an assigned hearing officer in accordance with §
40.10 of this chapter;
      (3)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in §
40.09 of this chapter; or
      (4)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
40.10 of this chapter.
   “IMMINENT DANGER.” A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   “ORDINANCE.” An official action of a local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance, or for any city
which has in place an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement to perform and enforce
the duties of a Code Enforcement Board.
   “OWNER.” A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal
entity having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   “PREMISES.” A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 17-01, passed - - )
§ 40.02 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS 65.8839 within the
city, a code enforcement board which shall be composed of no fewer than three
members, all of whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at least
one year prior to the creation of the Board and shall reside there throughout
the term in office and shall be at least 21 years of age.
(Ord. 17-01, passed - - )
§ 40.03 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 17-01, passed - - )
§ 40.04 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS, TERM OF OFFICE, REMOVAL FROM OFFICE, OATH,
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the City
commission.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the board shall be appointed for a term of one year;
      (2)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of two years; and
      (3)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the board shall be appointed for a term of three years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the City Commission.
   (D)   The City Commission may appoint two alternate members to serve on the
Code Enforcement Board in the absence of regular members. Alternate members
shall meet all of the qualifications and shall be subject to all of the
requirements that apply to regular members of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (E)   Any vacancy on the board shall be filled by the City Commission,
subject to approval of the City Commission, within 60 days of the vacancy. If
the vacancy is not filled within that time period, the remaining Code
Enforcement Board members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for
the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (F)   A Code Enforcement Board member may be removed from office by City
Commission for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The City
Commission shall submit a written statement to the member and the legislative
body setting forth the reasons for removal. The member so removed shall have
the right of appeal to the Circuit Court.
   (G)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reimbursed for actual
expenses and compensated in the amount of $25 per meeting hour.
   (I)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any other elected
or nonelected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the
city.
(Ord. 17-01, passed - - )
§ 40.05 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a chair from among its
members. The chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of
the board. In the absence of the chair, the remaining members of the board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held on the
third Wednesday of every month, if there is business to be undertaken. Meetings
other than those regularly scheduled shall be special meetings or emergency
meetings held in accordance with the requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings
Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the Board’s entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of
the board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 17-01, passed - - )
§ 40.06 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, disqualify himself from voting on the matter in which
he has an interest, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum.
(Ord. 17-01, passed - - )
§ 40.07 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The City of Hurstbourne Code Enforcement Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any code
enforcement officer.
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The chair shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce.
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the board has jurisdiction.
   (G)   To assign a hearing officer to conduct hearings in accordance with §
40.08 of this chapter.
   (H)   To review and hear appeals from the enforcement actions of the Local
Alcohol Beverage Control (ABC) Officer for enforcement under KRS Chapters 241
through 244; including suspensions and revocation of licenses under KRS 243.480
and KRS 243.490. In all such ABC cases, the Code Enforcement Board’s action
shall be a detailed finding of fact and recommendation to the Local Alcohol
Beverage Control Administrator, who may adopt, modify or reject said
recommendation and issue the final order. The final order of the Local ABC
Administrator may be appealed to the state ABC Board, as set out in KRS
Chapters 241 through 244.
(Ord. 17-01, passed - - )
§ 40.08 HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   Eligibility.
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Board may assign any of its members, including
the chair, to be a hearing officer.
      (2)   The Board may assign an individual who is not a member of the Board
to be a hearing officer as long as the individual does not hold any elected or
appointed office or position of employment with the city. The hearing officer
does not have to be a resident of the city. The hearing officer shall be
compensated at an hourly rate determined by the City Commission.
   (B)   Experience and training.
      (1)   A person assigned to be a hearing officer by the Code Enforcement
Board shall have experience or shall have received training in the code
enforcement process and basic procedural due process. At a minimum, the
experience or training shall include acquired knowledge regarding a party’s
fundamental due process right to:
         (a)   Be accompanied and advised by counsel at the hearing;
         (b)   Present evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf at the
hearing;
         (c)   Examine the evidence opposing the party; and
         (d)   Confront and cross-examine the witnesses opposing the party.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Board may establish additional standards in
writing, including but not limited to examples of qualifying experience and
training, and minimum amounts of experience or training required.
      (3)   Before assigning a person as a hearing officer, the Code
Enforcement Board shall require the person to submit a written, signed
affidavit describing and verifying the experience or training received. The
affidavit shall be provided on a form prescribed by the Code Enforcement Board.
      (4)   The Code Enforcement Board shall determine whether the affidavit
satisfies the experience or training requirements as set forth in this
paragraph and any additional standards established in writing by the board. The
board shall not assign a person as a hearing officer unless it has determined
that the affidavit satisfies the experience or training requirements.
   (C)   Hearing powers and procedures.
      (1)   An assigned hearing officer may administer oaths to witnesses prior
to their testimony and subpoena alleged violators, witnesses, and evidence.
      (2)   Any hearing conducted by a hearing officer shall conform to the
procedural requirements in Section
40.10 of this chapter.
   (D)   Final order.
      (1)   Following a hearing, the assigned hearing officer shall make
written findings of facts and conclusions of law, and enter a final order in
accordance with Section
40.10 of this chapter.
      (2)   Within 24 hours of entry, these findings, conclusions, and final
order shall be forwarded to the alleged violator, and to the Code Enforcement
Board. The findings, conclusions, and recommended order may be delivered to the
alleged violator by regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt
requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual
place of residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age
or older and who is informed of the contents of the delivery.
   (E)   Appeal from final order. An alleged violator may appeal a final order
issued by a hearing officer directly to District Court, in accordance with §
40.12 of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-01, passed - - )
§ 40.09 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board or hearing officer:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a code enforcement officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to § 40.17 of this
chapter, if a code enforcement officer believes, based on his personal
observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he
shall issue a Notice of Violation allowing the alleged violator a specified
period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If the alleged
violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified,
the code enforcement officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The code enforcement officer shall issue the citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.   
   (D)   The citation issued by the code enforcement officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the code enforcement officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation.
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board or hearing officer to contest the citation; the determination
that the violation was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall
be deemed a final order determining that the violation was committed and
imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the code enforcement
officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
City Clerk.
   (F)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven (7) days of the date of issuance by either paying the
civil fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation.
   (G)   If the person fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final. In this
event, the citation as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that
the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the
citation, and the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the
final order to District Court. Notice of the final order shall be delivered to
the cited violator by regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt
requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual
place of residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age
or older and who is informed of the contents of the delivery.
(Ord. 17-01, passed - - )
§ 40.10 HEARING, NOTICE AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person’s usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time and
place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing
to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was committed
shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set
forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to have waived
the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (D)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (E)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the code enforcement officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the code enforcement
officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (F)   The Code Enforcement Board or assigned hearing officer shall, based on
the evidence, determine whether a violation was committed. If it is determined
that no violation was committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be
entered. If it is determined that a violation was committed, an order may be
issued upholding the citation. The board or hearing officer may impose a fine
up to the maximum authorized by ordinance or require the offender to remedy a
continuing violation to avoid a fine, or both.
   (G)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to writing,
which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date the order
was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the citation.
   (H)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered by regular first-class mail;
certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the
notice at the person’s usual place of residence with any individual residing
therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the notice.
(Ord. 17-01, passed - - )
§ 40.11 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board or assigned hearing officer
shall be presented by an attorney selected by the city, a code enforcement
officer for the city, or by a member of the city’s administrative staff. The
city attorney may either be counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or hearing
officer, or may present cases before the board or hearing officer, but shall in
no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 17-01, passed - - )
§ 40.12 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board or assigned
hearing officer following a hearing conducted pursuant to §
40.10(E) of this chapter may be made to the Jefferson County District Court
within 30 days of the date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated
by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner
as any civil action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order following a hearing is filed within
the time period set in division (A) of this section, the order shall be deemed
final for all purposes.
(Ord. 17-01, passed - - )
§ 40.13 ORDINANCE FINE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Violations of ordinance that are enforce by the city Code Enforcement
Board or an assigned hearing officer may be subject to the penalty section of
any individual ordinance violated, or in the alternative, the city Code
Enforcement Board or any assigned hearing officer may in his or her discretion,
use the following schedule of standard civil fines:
   (B)   The following maximum penalties may be imposed at the discretion of
the Code Enforcement Board or hearing officer:
Violation 1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Violation         1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Animals           $100.00     $200.00     $300.00
Building Code     $500.00     $750.00     $1,000.00
Nuisance          $75.00      $150.00     $250.00
Licensing         $500.00     $750.00     $1,000.00
Signage           $50.00      $100.00     $700.00
Littering         $50.00      $100.00     $200.00
Parking           $50.00      $100.00     $200.00
Streets/Sidewalks $50.00      $100.00     $200.00
 
(Ord. 17-01, passed - - )
§ 40.14 LIENS, FINES, CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board, or assigned hearing officer, upon finding
there is a violation of the city ordinances, is authorized to require
compliance, in addition to the fines set out in § 40.10, by finding that each
day of non-compliance after said finding will constitute the imposition of
another fine for each day’s violation, up to the following maximums. On first
violation, the maximum total fine for each person cited is $1,000.00. On second
violation, the maximum total fine for each person cited is $2,000.00. On third
violation, the maximum total fine for each person cited is $3,000.00.
   (B)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a non-appealable final order of the code enforcement officer, board, hearing
officer, or by a final judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of
a city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the
violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs. An affidavit of
the code enforcement officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
amount of the lien and regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   (C)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the Jefferson County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years
following the date of the non-appealable final order or final court judgment
   (D)   Subject to §
40.16 of this chapter, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens,
except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by
judicial proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (E)   In addition to the remedy prescribed herein, the person found to have
committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the amount of all
fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the
city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance. The city may bring a
civil action against the person and shall have the same remedies as provided
for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 17-01, passed - - )
§ 40.15 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in §
40.14 of this chapter, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the code enforcement officer:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   The city shall maintain the records created under this Section for ten
years following their issuance.
(Ord. 17-01, passed - - )
§ 40.16 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
40.15 may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of notification under §
40.15 of this chapter:
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
40.17 of this chapter.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
40.14 of this chapter shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens
if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
40.15 of this chapter for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A)of this Section.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) of this section shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, take precedence over all other subsequent liens except liens for
state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45 day period established in
division (A) of this section expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to
the expiration of the 45 day period, the city shall release the lien in the
County Clerk’s office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of
satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §§
40.15 and
40.16 of this chapter, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously
filed liens as provided in division (C) of this section, shall not limit or
restrict any other remedies the city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 17-01, passed - - )
§ 40.17 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate action
to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe that
the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 17-01, passed - - )
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
         
50.   DRAINAGE UTILITY
         
51.   GARBAGE; RECYCLABLE SOLID WASTE
         
52.   SEWERS
         
53.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: DRAINAGE UTILITY
Editor's note:
   Surface water management for the city is handled by the Metropolitan Sewer
District.
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE; RECYCLABLE SOLID WASTE
Section
Collection
   
51.01   Frequency of collection; holidays
   
51.02   Collection location
   
51.03   Collection limit; preparation of certain items
   
51.04   Hours of collection
Recyclable Solid Waste
   
51.10   Collection by authorized agents
   
51.11   Materials become property of city
   
51.12   Removal prohibited
 
   
51.99   Penalty
COLLECTION
§ 51.01 FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION; HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   Collection shall be made twice a week at each dwelling unit, on
Tuesday and Friday, or as otherwise specifically agreed to in writing.
   (B)   The following legal holidays of New Year's Day, Memorial Day, July
Fourth, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day will be observed by the
contractor: Should one of the holidays fall on a regular collection day, then
pick-up shall be made on the next work day.
§ 51.02 COLLECTION LOCATION.
   Collection location at each unit for the normal collection limit per §
51.03 shall be at the rear of the residence, or at the curb, whichever the
resident may choose.
§ 51.03 COLLECTION LIMIT; PREPARATION OF CERTAIN ITEMS.
   (A)   Normal collection limit per pick-up per unit shall be three 20-gallon
containers, or two 30-gallon containers, or equivalent per residence, and five
20- gallon containers, or the equivalent, per church. However, if unusual
circumstances such as moving in or out, cleaning out a basement or a garage of
the like, warrant additional services on occasion, the contractor agrees to
make these reasonable additional pick-ups, but these containers shall be placed
at the curb for pick-up. Containers typically stored in the rear will be
collected at the rear of the house. This extra service does not apply to scrap
iron, concrete blocks, building materials, discarded appliances, or other heavy
articles. A resident may make arrangements for removal of such articles with
the contractor at a fair charge to be agreed upon between the resident and the
contractor.
   (B)   In addition to the container collection described above, leaves, grass
clippings, and sod in 30-gallon or less bags and cans, and shrubbery and tree
trimmings which are cut and tied in three-foot lengths and placed at curbside
shall be collected on the regular collection day by the contractor in amounts
up to ten additional container units per dwelling. When such additional garbage
is to be removed, the resident shall also place garbage typically stored in the
rear of the residence at the curb. Residents shall be responsible for ensuring
garbage units are reasonably able to be lifted by one person and are contained
in units sufficient to hold its content weight. If any resident abuses these
additional privileges, the contractor will not discuss it with the resident,
but will notify the City Clerk/City Administrative Officer, and the City Clerk/
City Administrative Officer will be responsible for advising the citizen of the
abuse, in conjunction with the Sanitation Department Executive Committee.
   (C)   The contractor agrees to provide services for the removal of Christmas
trees each year on the regular pick-up schedule and the resident shall not be
required to do any special preparation of the trees for collection, such as
cutting to certain lengths, or tying into bundles.
§ 51.04 HOURS OF COLLECTION.
   The contractor shall collect garbage between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 5:30
p.m. from October l through March 31 (winter schedule), and 6:30 a.m. and 5:30
p.m. April l through September 30 (summer schedule). Such collection time may
be extended in extenuating circumstances such as inclement weather.
RECYCLABLE SOLID WASTE
§ 51.10 COLLECTION BY AUTHORIZED AGENTS.
   Recyclable materials placed at a designated site, or on the edge of a
publicly dedicated right-of-way in a specifically designated container, for the
purpose of collecting newsprint, glass, aluminum containers, white office
paper, certain plastic containers, and other materials as may be designated by
the City Commission as recyclable, will be collected by the authorized agents
of the city only.
(Ord. 90-02, passed 2-9-90)
§ 51.11 MATERIALS BECOME PROPERTY OF CITY.
   Placing recyclable materials in the designated containers, in the specified
location, shall be deemed to vest title to the materials in the city. Non-
recyclable materials will not be collected and will not become the property of
the city.
(Ord. 90-02, passed 2-9-90)
§ 51.12 REMOVAL PROHIBITED
   No person shall remove any recyclable materials from the designated
containers, or remove the container itself, without the consent of the
Sanitation Department Executive Committee of the city.
(Ord. 90-02, passed 2-9-90)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, corporation, or firm violating any provision of §§
51.10 through
51.12 of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be guilty of a violation
and fined not less than $10 nor more than $250 per violation. Each instance of
unauthorized removal of recyclable materials shall be deemed and construed a
separate offense.
(Ord. 90-02, passed 2-9-90)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Editor's note:
   Sewer service for the city is handled by the Metropolitan Sewer District.
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Editor's note:
   Water service for the city is handled by the Louisville Water Co.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
         
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
         
76.   GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ON PUBLIC STREETS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officer
Pedestrian and Traffic Safety
   
70.30    Definitions
   
70.31   Prohibited pedestrian activities on heavily traveled roadways, medians
and gores
 
   
70.99   General penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES." Vehicles of the Police Department, vehicles
of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official business, vehicles of
the Fire Department and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   "BOULEVARD." Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is
required to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   "BUSINESS DISTRICT." Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   "CROSSWALK." That portion of the roadway included within the extension of
the sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   "CURB." The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   "INTERSECTION." That part of the public way embraced within the extensions
of the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or
not one such street crosses the other.
   "OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES." All signs, signals, warnings,
directions, markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority
of the City Commission.
   "ONE-WAY STREET." A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   "OPERATOR." Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   "PARK." When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   "PEDESTRIAN." Any person afoot.
   "PLAY STREET." Any street or portion thereof so designated by the City
Commission and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   "POLICE DEPARTMENT." The Jefferson County Police Department or other persons
or agency authorized to perform the duties of § 70.03 or any other acts
necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   "PUBLIC WAY." The entire width between property lines of every way,
dedicated passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths
and foot paths.
   "REVERSE TURN." To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to
proceed in the opposite direction.
   "RIGHT-OF-WAY." The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   "ROADWAY." That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   "SIDEWALK." That portion of the street between the curb and the property
line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   "STOPPING." As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is
actually necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   "STREET." Every public way, including alleys.
   "TRAFFIC." Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   "VEHICLE." Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed or recognized
police officer, or to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic
regulations of this traffic code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
   Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
   Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the City Commission or any authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as
he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks. If these
temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the
City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words "Go," "Caution," or "Stop," or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or "Go": Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or "Caution" when shown following the green or
"Go" signal: Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or "Stop": Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or "Go" is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   "Yield Right-of-Way": Vehicular traffic facing the "Yield Right-of-
Way" sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a "Yield Right-of-Way"
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights: When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
   Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
   Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
   Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
   Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
PEDESTRIAN AND TRAFFIC SAFETY
§ 70.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   “GORE.” A longitudinal point where a physical barrier or the lack of a paved
surface inhibits road users from crossing from a ramp or channelized turn lane
or channelized entering lane to the adjacent through lane(s) or vice versa.
   “HEAVILY TRAVELED ROADWAY.” The class of roads in the city that serve major
traffic movements (high-speed, high volume) for travel between major points,
which include any roadway listed in §
70.31 (F). The city has inspected the heavily traveled and congested areas in
the city and designated in this subchapter rights-of-way that are heavily
traveled and are congested in the city.
   “MEDIAN.” The area between two roadways of a divided highway measured from
the edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, which includes median refuge
island. The median excludes turn lanes and that portion of a median that
contains a sidewalk beyond the marked crosswalk or other legal pedestrian
crossing, and which is not a part of a median refuge island. The median width
might be different between intersections, interchanges and at opposite
approaches of the same intersection.
   “MEDIAN REFUGE ISLAND.” Protected spaces placed in the center of a heavily
traveled roadway to facilitate pedestrian crossings which may include a portion
for walking or standing on such island while awaiting safe and legal crossing
of such roadway.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 2-23-21)
§ 70.31 PROHIBITED PEDESTRIAN ACTIVITIES ON HEAVILY TRAVELED ROADWAYS, MEDIANS
AND GORES.
   (A)   Pedestrians are prohibited from crossing a heavily traveled roadway at
any place except a crosswalk. If there is no crosswalk on a heavily traveled
roadway, a pedestrian may cross a heavily traveled roadway only at an
intersection in which a traffic control signal or other device is in place. If
neither is present, a person may cross a heavily traveled roadway only at an
intersection.
   (B)   No person shall sleep, lay, or camp on any alley, street, sidewalk,
median, or city right-of-way.
   (C)   Pedestrians are prohibited from standing or being on a median or gore
of a heavily traveled roadway unless he or she is in the process of legally
crossing a heavily traveled roadway.
   (D)   No person, other than the occupant of a vehicle shall be on a heavily
traveled roadway, unless otherwise provided by law. Pedestrians while upon a
heavily traveled roadway, are prohibited from approaching a vehicle operating
on such heavily traveled roadway except for the actions contained in division
(E).
   (E)   Divisions (C) and (D) do not apply to:
      (1)   Any person in a legally parked vehicle at the curb or shoulder;
      (2)   Any person engaged in law enforcement or rescue activities or with
an emergency repair or maintenance of a vehicle;
      (3)   Any person entering a stopped vehicle as an invited passenger where
it is lawful to do so, including accessing taxicabs or public transportation;
      (4)   Any person working on a heavily traveled roadway with a valid
permit; or
      (5)   Any person in compliance with the provisions of KRS 189.570(21) and
the following pedestrian safety measures:
         (a)   Be at least 18 years of age;
         (b)   Persons must wear vests as described by the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Devices;
         (c)   Persons must place at least four orange cones per lane utilized
with a minimum height of at least 28 inches and be placed at a minimum of 15
feet apart from the closest orange cone;
         (d)   Persons must withdraw from an intersection to a place of safety
on a median or on the side of a heavily traveled roadway before the light turns
green or as soon as safely possible;
         (e)   Persons must limit solicitation activity to one person for each
lane of traffic;
         (f)   Persons must refrain from yelling at or otherwise distracting
motorists, and from touching any vehicle; and
         (g)   Persons shall not conduct any solicitation activity before
sunrise or after sunset, as published daily by the National Weather Service, or
in inclement weather during which wipers or lights are necessary for safe
vehicular travel, or in the judgement of any law enforcement officer conducting
solicitation activity would constitute a hazard to individuals conducting
solicitation activity or to motorists.
   (F)   The following streets are designated heavily traveled roadways for the
purposes of this section:
      (1)   Blairwood Road;
      (2)   Blairwood Access Way;
      (3)   Linn Station Road;
      (4)   Liberty Bank Lane;
      (5)   Nottingham Parkway;
      (6)   Shelbyville Road;
      (7)   S. Hurstbourne Parkway;
      (8)   Oxmoor Woods Parkway;
      (9)   S. Lyndon Lane;
      (10)   Whittington Parkway;
      (11)   Seaton Springs Parkway; and
      (12)   Colonel Anderson Parkway.
   (G)   This section also applies to the first 200 feet of any roadway that
intersects with a heavily traveled roadway, as measured from the point where
the roadway and the heavily traveled roadway intersect.
(Ord. 21-03, passed 2-23-21)
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
Golf Carts and Low Speed Vehicles
   
71.60    Definitions
   
71.61    Requirements
   
71.62    Exemptions
   
71.63    Permits
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Golf carts and all-terrain vehicles, see
Chapter 76
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
   Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
   Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the City Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution. Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
   Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
   Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
emergency vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
stop and remain stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the fire
department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provisions of division (F) of this section shall apply to any
drive approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) of this section shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes,
with at least two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the approaching
vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to safety
and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "PARADE." Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   "PARADE PERMIT." A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the City
Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
   Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the City Commission or any authorized city official on forms provided by the
Commissioner or such officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Commission.
   Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of fire
fighting equipment enroute to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute.
   Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If the City Commission or authorized
city official disapproves the application, it shall mail to the applicant
within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the
date on which the application was filed, a notice of its action stating the
reasons for denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Commission. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Commission shall act on the appeal within 30 days
after its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The City Commission;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Police Commander of Adam District, Jefferson County Police
Department and the Fire Chief of the Lyndon Fire Protection District;
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
   Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
   Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The City Commission or any authorized city
official shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public thoroughfare or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. Signs shall be
posted to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for
parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless signs have been posted
in accordance with this division.
   Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
GOLF CARTS AND LOW SPEED VEHICLES
§ 71.60 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning.
   “COMMERCIAL DELIVERY PERSONNEL.” Shall have the same meaning as KRS 189.283
(a).
   “GOLF CART.” Shall have the same meaning as KRS 189.286.
   “LOW SPEED VEHICLE.” Shall have the same meaning as KRS 186.010.
   “UTILITY VEHICLE.” Shall have the same meaning as KRS 189.283(f).
(Ord. 17-6, passed 10-24-17)
§ 71.61 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Commercial delivery personnel may operate low-speed vehicles, golf
carts, or utility vehicles, solely for the purpose of delivering express
envelopes and packages; (a) only on roadway specifically designated for such
use by the city; (b) after being issued a permit by the city; and (c) only if
the low-speed vehicle, golf cart, or utility vehicle is operated in conformance
with this subchapter.
   (B)   In order to be operated on such designated city streets, a golf cart,
low speed vehicle or utility vehicle shall:
      (1)   Be issued a permit by the city as provided hereafter under §
71.63;
      (2)   Display a permit that identifies that the golf cart, low speed
vehicle or utility vehicle is allowed to be operated on specific roadways
within the city which permit shall be numbered and affixed to the lower left
side (driver’s side) of the windshield of the vehicle;
      (3)   Be inspected by a certified inspector designated by the Jefferson
County Sheriff’s office and certified through the Department of Vehicle
Regulation to ensure that the golf cart, low speed vehicle or utility vehicle
complies with the requirements of this section;
      (4)   Display a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance with KRS
189.820;
      (5)   Be insured in compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or
operator, and the proof of insurance shall be inside the golf cart at all times
of operation on a public roadway;
      (6)   Be operated only between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.;
      (7)   Be operated by a person with a valid operator’s license (an
operator’s permit shall not suffice) in his or her possession; and
      (8)   Be operated without crossing a roadway at an intersection where the
roadway being crossed has a posted speed limit of more than 35 miles per hour.
   (C)   Any person operating a golf cart, low speed vehicle or utility vehicle
on a public roadway under the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
the traffic regulations of KRS Chapter 189, and any other applicable provisions
of this code pertaining to the operation of vehicles upon city streets.
(Ord. 17-6, passed 10-24-17)
§ 71.62 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   When used in compliance with this subchapter, low-speed vehicles, golf
carts, or utility vehicles are not considered to be motor vehicles, but must
remain in compliance with KRS 189.283.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to a golf cart that
is not used on a public roadway except to cross a roadway while following a
golf cart path on a golf course.
   (C)   This subchapter applies only to City of Hurstbourne maintained rights-
of-way and not to any right-of-way maintained by the Kentucky Transportation
Cabinet or Louisville Metro.
(Ord. 17-6, passed 10-24-17)
§ 71.63 PERMITS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall prepare an annual application form for the low-
speed vehicles, golf carts, or utility vehicles. The permit is good only for
the time period specified on the permit.
   (B)   Each entity applying for a permit may only operate during the holiday
season, which is hereby determined to be November 1 through December 31.
   (C)   Each entity must designate the drop off and pickup points for its
operations in its permit application. Any storage container located in the city
can only be located if permitted in compliance with the permitting requirements
under
Chapter 150 of this code.
(Ord. 17-6, passed 10-24-17)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both. (KRS 189.993(8))
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   A11-night parking
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
   
72.13   Commercial-type vehicle parking restrictions
Impounding
   
72.20   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.21   Reserved
   
72.22   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty, criminal
   
72.99A   Penalty, civil
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
   (C)   Before on-street parking is permitted, all parking areas on the
property must be utilized for parking. Only then may vehicles park on the
street, but must abide by all other parking regulations.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 6-28-11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
   Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park such
vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the provisions
of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic sign or
signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02.
   (B)   On a sidewalk.
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway.
   (E)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk.
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. This
does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during the performance of their official duties.
   (G)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign, or traffic-
control device.
   (H)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area.
   (I)   On grass or any surface that is not a solid, continuous hard surface,
slab of asphalt or concrete.
(Am. Ord. 2023-23-01, passed 4-25-23) Penalty, see §
72.99
                    
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see KRS 189.450(5), (6)
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
   Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
   Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 ALL-NIGHT PARKING.
   Except on Wessex Place from Hurstbourne Parkway to the dead end, it shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle on any of the public ways or streets of the city
for a cumulative period more than seven days during any calendar year. Any
vehicle left parked in one place more than seven days shall be deemed
abandoned, and shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city
pertaining to abandoned vehicles. For purposes of this section, any vehicle
parked continuously between 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. shall be considered parked
one day, and all vehicles owned or customarily operated by members of a
household shall be considered one vehicle.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-6-94; Am. Ord. 96-05, passed 10-28-96; Am. Ord. 02-07,
passed 10-8-02) Penalty, see §
72.99
                
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §§
72.22 et seq.
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict
the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of
the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
   Penalty, see §
72.99
                
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 through
71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or abandon
the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or on an
area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of the
owner, lessee, or person in charge of any such property or facility. If at any
time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses in violation of
the provisions of this section, a warrant may be obtained in District Court by
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of the property or facility, and the
Police Department, on written complaint of the owner, lessee, or person in
charge, shall remove or cause to be removed the vehicle in accordance with the
provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.22.
   Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
   Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
   Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
   Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a "no stopping" or "no
parking" zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
   Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 COMMERCIAl-TYPE VEHICLE PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   As used herein "commercial-type vehicle" shall mean motor vehicles
meeting any one of the following classifications:
      (1)   Having dual rear wheels;
      (2)   Having a design load carrying capacity of over one ton.
      (3)   Designed to carry more than 12 passengers, including driver.
      (4)   Any vehicle designed to carry business equipment such as having
racks or storage bins (exclusive of a single tool box).
   (B)   No commercial-type vehicle, airplane, boat, boat trailer, housecar,
recreational vehicle (RV), bus, mobile home, trailer, camper, tractor, or part
of such vehicle shall be parked or stored on any property zoned single-family
residential or on the side of any street adjacent to such property, in the
city, except in a garage.
   (C)   No vehicle which is inoperable shall be habitually parked or kept on
any lot (except in the garage) or on any street in the city.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A), any motor vehicle may
be temporarily parked upon any legal driveway, exclusive of commercial vehicles
as hereinafter defined.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing divisions, nothing
contained herein shall prohibit the temporary parking on a legal driveway or
street for cumulative periods of 12 days or less during any calendar year, or
for continuous periods of 72 hours or less of a motor vehicle being used in
connection with improvements to or maintenance of the residence served during
such periods of construction or maintenance, or while such vehicle is being
prepared for use or prepared for storage.
   (F)   The fact that any vehicle which is illegally parked is registered in
the name of a person, firm or corporation shall be considered prima facie proof
that such person was in control of the automobile at the time of such parking.
   (G)   The owner of any property on which there is any vehicle parked in
violation of this section shall be subject to the same penalties as the owner
of the vehicle or person illegally parking or storing the vehicle.
   (H)   Any person who shall violate this section shall be subject to the
civil and criminal penalties set forth in §
72.99 and §
72.99A.
   (I)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the parking or
storage of a recreational vehicle where such use has been substantially
continuous since January 1, 1990, and such use was not prohibited by the
applicable deed of restrictions, provided however, this exception shall expire
upon the sale of or transfer of title to the affected lot.
   (J)   Vehicles owned by residents that have visible business advertisements
may only be parked in a garage or out of sight from the traveled portion of the
street.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-16-94; Am. Ord. 11-08, passed 6-28-11) Penalty, see §§
72.99 and
72.99A
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle's release.
§ 72.21 RESERVED.
§ 72.22 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of state law,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
division (B) of this section, for the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with state law, as long as it remains in his or her
possession.
      (2)   If after a period of forty-five (45) days, the applicable and
reasonable charges assessed in accordance with state law have not been paid,
the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in division (B) of this
section, may be sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have
been notified by certified mail at the addresses specified in state law, ten
(10) days prior to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale
of any vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued
charges, the sale and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or
release of responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or
responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this
subsection shall be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by any
existing lienholder pursuant to (A)(3) of this section.
      (3)   (a)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the
title issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified
mail within the first ten (10) days of impoundment in accordance with KRS
281.928.
         (b)   The notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928
shall include the make, model, license number, vehicle identification number,
owner’s name and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the
vehicle, and state that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain
a new title free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
         (c)   If the certified letter required under this division is not sent
within the ten (10) days by the towing and storage company, then only ten (10)
days of storage may be charged.
         (d)   The lien holder has the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable
or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle.
         (e)   If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession
of the motor vehicle under this division within forty-five (45) days of
notification, the towing company or storage facility may obtain a new title
under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190 or in division (e) of
this division.
      (4)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under state
law, and the owner does not exercise the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle under this section within 45 days of notification required under state
law, the tow company or storage facility may obtain a new title under state law
free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to the following contents
of a motor vehicle, which shall be released to the vehicle owner or the owner’s
designated agent upon request, if the request is made within forty-five (45)
days of the date the vehicle was towed:
      (1)   Prescription medication in its proper container;
      (2)   Personal medical supplies and equipment or records;
      (3)   Educational materials, including but not limited to calculators,
books, papers, and school supplies;
      (4)   Documents, files, electronic devices, or equipment which may be
able to store personal information or information relating to a person’s
employment or business;
      (5)   Firearms and ammunition. Notwithstanding the provisions of division
(C) of this section, firearms and ammunition which are not claimed by the owner
of the vehicle within forty-five (45) days of the date the vehicle was towed
shall be transferred to the Department of Kentucky State Police for disposition
as provided by KRS 16.220;
      (6)   Cargo in the possession of persons engaged in transportation in
interstate commerce as registered under KRS 186.020;
      (7)   Cargo in the possession of an integrated intermodal small package
carrier as defined by KRS 281.605(12);
      (8)   Child restraint systems or child booster seats; and
      (9)   Checks, checkbooks, debit or credit cards, money orders, stocks, or
bonds.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (B)(5) of this section, any contents
exempted under division (B)(5) of this section, any contents exempted under
divisions (B)(3), (4), (6), and (7) of this section that are not claimed by the
owner of the vehicle within forty-five (45) days of the date the vehicle was
towed may be sold or otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing
company. Any contents exempted under division (B)(1), (2), (8), and (9) of this
section that are not claimed by the owner of the vehicle within forty-five (45)
days of the date the vehicle was towed shall not be sold, but shall be
otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing company.
   (D)   The storage or towing company shall not be responsible for contents in
a vehicle’s trunk or other locked compartment to which the storage or towing
company is without access, unless the towing company intentionally opens the
area without the owner’s consent.
(KRS 376.275(1)-(4))
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever it is found on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, the Commission
or city official is authorized to announce such prohibition, to become
effective at a time specified by it. After the effective time of such
prohibition no person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain
parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or
freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the City
Commission or any authorized city official has not announced prior to 11:00
p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a
specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked
until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The prohibition of parking announced by
the City Commission or any authorized city official under the authority of this
section shall remain in effect until the Commission or city official announces
the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in whole, after which the
prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
   Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official shall find that
some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition
no longer exist, the Commission or city official is authorized to declare the
termination of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on
announcement. If such announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:
00 p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.37 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term "SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE" shall mean any route designated by the City
Commission or any authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
§ 72.99 PENALTY, CRIMINAL.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $100.
   (B)   Where Kentucky Revised Statutes mandates a fine higher than that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in Kentucky Revised Statutes shall apply.
   (C)   Any continuing violation of this code of ordinances shall be
considered a separate and distinct offense for each day on which a violation
occurs or continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed therefor.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-6-94)
§ 72.99A PENALTIES, CIVIL.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to fines,
penalties, and forfeitures that may be imposed by law, and the city may secure
injunctions and abatement orders, when appropriate, to insure compliance with
its ordinances as authorized by KRS 83A.065.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty in an amount equal to two times the minimum fine prescribed in the
ordinance violated, with a minimum civil penalty of $50 for each violation.
   (C)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay
the penalty within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the ordinance
violation. As used herein "cited" shall mean notified of the violation and the
penalty in writing by an elected or appointed official of the city or the
official attorney for the city. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative
to or in conjunction with the criminal penalties authorized herein.
   (D)   Any city parking ordinance may be enforced by any one, all, or a
combination of the remedies authorized by this section or the ordinance
violated.
   (E)   Where any ordinance provides that each day a violation of the
ordinance continues shall be a separate and distinct offense, a separate civil
penalty may be imposed for each such day.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 12-16-94)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public
park, playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking
area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
   Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven
bicycle shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a
side car attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot. Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or
toy vehicle of any kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
   Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
   Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   Schedule
   
I.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections in the city are hereby designated as stop
intersections. There is hereby directed to be installed, in accordance with the
Commonwealth of Kentucky Uniform Traffic Control Devices Manual, latest
edition, stop signs indicating a stop for all vehicles entering the
intersections. KRS 189.990 et seq. shall govern enforcement of the stop signs
so installed.
 
Intersection                                Type of Stop Ord. No. Date
Colonel Anderson Parkway and Cheshire Way   4-way        85-6     1-10-86
Colonel Anderson Parkway and Stockport Road 3-way        85-6     1-10-86
Linn Station Road and Leighton Circle       3-way        85-6     1-10-86
Oxmoor Woods Parkway and Bedfordshire Road  3-way        85-6     1-10-86
Oxmoor Woods Parkway and Stockport Road     3-way        85-6     1-10-86
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
   Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited at all times
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle, at any time, in the following
locations:
 
Street              Side Location                              Ord. No. Date
Blairwood Road      Both From 9400 Blairwood Road west to the  84-7     5-11-87
                         end of the roadway
Linn Station        Both From Hurstbourne Road Lane to         84-7     5-11-87
                         Nottingham Parkway
                         From intersection at the southernmost
South Chadwick Road East entrance of Hurstbourne Baptist       85-1     2-8-85
                         Church to intersection with
                         Nottingham Parkway
                         From Shelbyville Road south to the
South Chadwick Road West southernmost entrance of the          85-1     2-8-85
                         Hurstbourne Baptist Church
Williamsburg Plaza  Both                                      84-10    8-10-84
                                                                     
 
   Penalty, see §
72.99
CHAPTER 76: GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ON PUBLIC STREETS
Section
   
76.01   Definitions
   
76.02     Roadways open for golf cart and all-terrain vehicle use
   
76.03    Operation of golf carts and all-terrain vehicles on city streets
   
76.04     Qualifications for operation of golf carts and all- terrain vehicles
on city streets
 
   
76.99     Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Golf carts and low speed vehicles, see §§
71.60 -
71.63
§ 76.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE.” Any motor vehicle used for recreational off-road use.
   “CITY.” The City of Hurstbourne, Kentucky.
   “GOLF CART.” Any self-propelled vehicle that:
      (1)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
      (2)   Has a minimum of four wheels;
      (3)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than 35 miles per
hour;
      (4)   Is designed to carry not more than six persons, including the
driver;
      (5)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
      (6)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of 1,200 pounds; and
      (7)   Meets the Federal motor vehicle safety standards for low-speed
vehicles set forth in 49 CFR § 571.500.
   “HIGHWAY.” Any public road, street, avenue, alley or boulevard, bridge,
viaduct, or trestle and the approaches to them and includes private residential
roads and parking lots covered by an agreement under KRS 61.362, off-street
parking facilities offered for public use, whether publicly or privately owned,
except for-hire parking facilities listed in KRS 189.700.
   “INTERSECTION.”
      (1)   (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of
the lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another, but do not necessarily
continue, at approximately right angles, or the area within which vehicles
traveling upon different highways joining at any other angle may come into
conflict; or
         (b)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. If the intersecting
highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, every crossing of two
roadways of the highways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (2)   The junction of a private alley with a public street or highway
shall not constitute an intersection.
   “MOTOR VEHICLE.” Includes all vehicles except:
      (1)   Road rollers;
      (2)   Road graders;
      (3)   Farm tractors;
      (4)   Vehicles on which power shovels are mounted;
      (5)   Construction equipment customarily used only on the site of
construction and which is not practical for the transportation of persons or
property upon the highways;
      (6)   Vehicles that travel exclusively upon rails; and
      (7)   Vehicles propelled by muscular power.
   “OPERATOR.” The person in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   “ROADWAY.” That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term “ROADWAY” as used herein shall refer to
any roadway separately, but not to all such roadways collectively.
   “VEHICLE.” Includes:
      (1)   All agencies for the transportation of persons or property over or
upon the public highways of the Commonwealth; and
      (2)   All vehicles passing over or upon the highways.
(Ord. 20-06, Series 2020, passed 7-28-20)
§ 76.02 ROADWAYS OPEN FOR GOLF CART AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE USE.
   (A)   The roadways subject to the provisions of this section are those
portions of any public road within the City of Hurstbourne, Kentucky that have
a posted speed limit of 25 miles per-hour or less; however, the Commission, or
the Commission's designee, is hereby granted the authority to determine if a
particular street, road or section thereof should be withdrawn from the scope
of this section in the interest of public safety, and, upon such a
determination and its publication and passage by the City Commission.
   (B)   The City of Hurstbourne Public Works Department, Public Safety
Department, City Engineer and City Administrative Officer inspected the heavily
traveled and congested areas in the city and determined that the following list
of rights-of-way are recognized as areas of congestion in Hurstbourne. These
areas have been determined to be unsafe areas for golf carts and low speed
vehicles, due to the amount and speed of traffic and the limited space for
travel and golf carts and low speed vehicles are prohibited in the following
areas:
      (1)   Shelbyville Road.
      (2)   Hurstbourne Parkway.
(Ord. 20-06, Series 2020, passed 7-28-20) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.03 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ON CITY STREETS.
   A person may operate a golf cart or all-terrain vehicle on a city street if:
   (A)   The posted speed limit of the city street is 35 miles per hour or
less;
   (B)   The operator of the low speed vehicle does not cross a roadway at an
intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed limit of more
than 25 miles per hour;
   (C)   The operator has a valid operator's license in his or her possession;
   (D)   The low speed vehicle is being operated between sunrise and 11:00
p.m.;
   (E)   The low speed vehicle displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem in
compliance with KRS 189.820 and has had the inspection required by KRS 189.286
(3)(c);
   (F)   The operator and all passengers use all safety equipment with which
the golf cart or all-terrain vehicle is equipped;
   (G)   No more than the maximum number of occupants for which the golf cart
or all-terrain vehicle is designed are onboard;
   (H)   The all-terrain vehicle has at least one headlight and two taillights,
which shall be illuminated at all times the vehicle is in operation; and
   (I)   Any low speed vehicle must be operated in a safe manner, including
maintaining a minimum speed of at least 15 miles per hour to minimize traffic
backups.
(Ord. 20-06, Series 2020, passed 7-28-20) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.04 QUALIFICATIONS FOR OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ON
CITY STREETS.
   (A)   A golf cart or ATV operating on a city street shall be insured in
compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator, and the proof of
insurance shall be inside the vehicle at all times of operation on a city
street.
   (B)   Any person operating a low speed vehicle on a city street shall be
subject to the traffic regulations of KRS Ch. 189.
   (C)   A golf cart or ATV operated on a city street shall:
      (1)   Prior to seeking a city permit, be inspected by a certified
inspector designated by the County Sheriff and certified through the Department
of Vehicle Regulation to ensure that the vehicle complies with the requirements
of KRS 189.286. The inspection fee under this section shall not exceed $5 with
an additional fee not to exceed $10 per trip charged if it becomes necessary
for the certified inspector to travel to the site of the golf cart rather than
having the golf cart brought to the Sheriffs inspection area;
      (2)   Be issued a sticker or permit for the golf cart or ATV by the city.
The fee for an initial permit or sticker for low speed vehicle from the city
shall be $25. A permit shall be valid until the first day of March of the
following year. The fee for a renewal permit or sticker from the city shall be
$15; and
      (3)   Display the permit or sticker issued by the city on the front of
the vehicle that identifies that the golf cart or ATV is allowed to be operated
on city streets.
(Ord. 20-06, Series 2020, passed 7-28-20) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Operating a golf cart in violation of any provision of this chapter is
a civil offense and as such may be addressed by the City of Hurstbourne. Any
peace officer or citation officer may issue a citation for the violation of any
provision of this chapter. Any person violating a provision of this chapter
shall receive a civil fine of $100 to $500. Any person who violates any
provision of this chapter two or more times within a 12 month period shall
receive a civil fine of $500 to $1,000. Any person who receives a citation for
violation of this chapter may contest the citation by sending written request
for a hearing to the City of Hurstbourne to the address listed on the citation
within seven days of receipt of the citation.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person of
any legal duties or obligation created by any other statute or ordinance.
Promulgation of this chapter does not preclude legal enforcement by any peace
officer or traffic control officer of any provision in the Kentucky Revised
Statutes, including the prohibition against operating an unlicensed or
unregistered motor vehicle on the public roads of the Commonwealth unless that
motor vehicle falls within the exceptions created by this chapter or any other
existing law, ordinance or regulation in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 20-06, Series 2020, passed 7-28-20)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
92.   NUISANCES
         
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
         
94.   LITTERING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Torture of dogs or cats
   
90.08    Farm animals in the city prohibited
Dogs
   
90.15   Definition
   
90.16   Dogs running at large; removal of feces
   
90.17   Noise disturbance
   
90.18   Impoundment
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ABANDONMENT." Shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and claims
by the owner to the animal. (KRS 257.100 (4))
   "AT LARGE." Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   "OWNER." Every person having a right of property to an animal and every
person who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another. Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including, but not limited to being
a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal is caused to fight
for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other than a
dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space, or
health care, or by any other means; or
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Torture of dogs or cats, see §
90.07
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
   Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the Board of Agriculture may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or
killed, any animal found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or
appearing to be injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful
purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him to
view the animal in his presence, or shall obtain consent to the destruction
from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by certified
mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his agent at his last
known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may be turned over to the
nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of as the custodian may
deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
   (D)   Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100)
§ 90.07 TORTURE OF DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires:
      (1)   “TORTURE” means the intentional infliction of or subjection to
extreme physical pain or serious injury or death to a dog or cat, motivated by
intent or wanton disregard that causes, increases, or prolongs the pain or
suffering of the dog or cat, including serious physical injury or infirmity.
“TORTURE” shall include situations where the extreme physical pain, serious
physical injury or infirmity, or death results from restraint of the dog or
cat, which may include being:
         (a)   Locked in a cage or kennel;
         (b)   Sealed in a plastic bag or box;
         (c)   Chained or tied down to restrict motion;
         (d)   Pitched in a dumpster;
         (e)   Abandoned in a building for three days or more with no intention
of returning or having made provisions for the animal’s care;
         (f)   Physically restrained with tie wraps, rope, chains, or tape;
         (g)   Intentionally injured to cause immobility so that the animal
cannot save itself from starvation, dehydration, physical impairment, serious
physical injury or infirmity, or death; or
         (h)   Manually restrained; and
      (2)   “SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY OR INFIRMITY” means physical injury or
physical infirmity that creates a substantial risk of death, protracted loss,
or impairment of the function of the limb or bodily organ caused by willful or
wanton disregard while restrained. As used in this division:
         (a)   “PHYSICAL INFIRMITY” includes intentional starvation,
dehydration, hypothermia, hyperthermia, muscle atrophy, restriction of blood
flow to a limb or organ, mange or other skin disease or parasitic infestation
for which medical care has been denied, denial of life-saving medical care or
professional euthanasia while intentionally restraining with the intent to
cause or the wanton disregard for extreme physical pain, serious injury, or
death; and
         (b)   “PHYSICAL INJURY” includes substantial physical pain, serious
injury, or death intentionally caused by fractures, cuts, burns, punctures,
bruises due to crushing, burning, drowning, beating, poisoning, suffocating,
hanging, impaling or skinning alive, physical disfigurement, loss of function
of a limb or body organ or other wounds or illnesses produced by violence or a
thermal or chemical agent while intentionally restrained with the intent to
cause or the wanton disregard for extreme physical pain, serious injury, or
death.
   (B)   A person is guilty of torture of a dog or cat when he or she without
legal justification intentionally tortures a domestic dog or cat.
   (C)   Torture of a dog or cat is a Class D felony.
   (D)   Each act of torture of a dog or cat may constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Under recommendation of a veterinarian, a tortured dog or cat may be
humanely euthanized after it is seized if it is still alive but suffering from
the intentional torture that will lead to its death.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing or injuring of a
dog or cat without intent to cause, or without wanton disregard of, increasing
or prolonging the pain, suffering, or death of the dog or cat:
      (1)   In accordance with a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   For humane purposes;
      (3)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes or breed- specific alterations such as cropping of ears, docking of
tails, or declawing of a cat, all done by a veterinarian;
      (4)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to training for organized dog or cat shows, or other animal shows in
which a dog or a cat, or both, participate;
      (5)   For bona fide animal research activities, using dogs or cats, of
institutions of higher education; or a business entity registered with the
United States Department of Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject
to other federal laws governing animal research;
      (6)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased dog or cat;
      (7)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
dog or cat;
      (8)   For animal or pest control; or
      (9)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (G)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife Resources shall not constitute a violation of this section.
   (H)   The acts specified in this section shall not constitute cruelty to
animals under KRS 525.125 or 525.130.
(KRS 525.135) Penalty, see §
90.99
                    
Statutory reference:
   Torture of dogs and cats, second and subsequent offenses, and torture
resulting in serious physical injury or death of dog or cat, Class D felony,
see KRS 525.135
§ 90.08 FARM ANIMALS IN THE CITY PROHIBITED.
   Keeping farm animals within city limits, including cows, pigs, sheep, goats,
horses, donkeys, chickens, other poultry, mules, or similar animals is
prohibited.
(Ord. 25-03, passed 5-13-25)
DOGS
§ 90.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "DOG." Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
§ 90.16 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE; REMOVAL OF FECES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in charge of a dog to
permit such animal to be on any private property other than that of the owner
or person in charge or control of such animal without the permission of the
owner of said property, or on any streets, sidewalks, or rights-of-way in the
city, without the owner or person in charge of such dog to have in his or her
possession, and visibly in plain sight, a suitable device for the picking up,
collection and proper sanitary disposal of the animal feces or manure.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or persons in charge of a dog to
permit or allow such animal to excrete manure or feces on public property other
than that of the owner or person in charge or control of such animal without
the permission of the owner of said property, or on any street, sidewalk, or
rights-of-way in the city unless the owner or person in control of such animal
immediately removes all feces deposited by such animal and disposes of same in
a sanitary manner.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 4-13-04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or
more separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to
remain, be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
   Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Dogs found running at large in violation of §
90.16 may be impounded by the County Dog Warden to the County Dog Pound or
other authorized county animal shelter and there confined according to county
regulations until and unless claimed by its owner.
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense. (KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500. (KRS 436.600)
   (D)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
90.16 shall be deemed guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction be punished by a fine not to exceed $25, nor more than $100 for each
offense. Each day's continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing, this section may be enforced by civil
penalty as provided in §
39.01.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 4-13-04)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Permit required for street work or connection
   
91.02   Standards for street work
   
91.03   Street curb construction and design standards
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public hearing required
   
91.16   Notice requirements
   
91.17   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.18   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
Speed Humps
   
91.45   Definitions
   
91.46   Eligibility requirements
   
91.47   Speed hump location
   
91.48   Design standards and procedures
   
91.49   Procedures for speed hump installation
   
91.50   Speed hump removal and alteration
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR STREET WORK OR CONNECTION.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall, without first obtaining an
encroachment permit from the City of Hurstbourne as provided herein, begin to
construct, reconstruct, repair, cut, excavate, alter, connect, or attach onto,
any public streets, sidewalks, or right-of-way of the city. A public utility
may conduct emergency excavations or cuts without first applying for a permit,
but must apply for an encroachment permit within 48 hours of the commencement
of said work.
   (B)   Form of application. The city shall provide forms containing the
information required for application for an encroachment permit and such other
information deemed necessary in the administration of this section, providing,
however, that a utility company may devise its own form, if the form contains
all of the information called for in the city form. The application may be
mailed or delivered to the city, or sent by facsimile and shall contain at a
minimum:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of the entity for whose benefit
the work is proposed.
      (2)   Name, address and telephone number of the person who is doing the
actual work.
      (3)   Description of the proposed work, including construction detail,
location, when the work will begin and projected to be completed.
      (4)   Any traffic impact studies and data required by the city.
   (C)   Standards. The determination as to whether to approve an encroachment
permit for a cut or excavation shall be based upon whether the applicant has
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the city that it will comply with the
construction standards contained in this chapter and has posted good and
sufficient security for said work. However, if the applicant or application
proposes a new vehicular connection to city streets, added scrutiny and
findings must be part of the city determination, including, but not limited to,
the following considerations:
      (1)   Whether the parcel(s) benefitted by the connection has other,
reasonable vehicular access through other access points and the extent to which
the applicant would be adversely affected by denial of the encroachment permit.
      (2)   Whether city services and safety will be adversely affected by the
approval of the encroachment permit. This includes the technical engineering
and construction details of the physical connection itself. This also includes
a review of the burden, impact or benefit on city traffic patterns by the
proposed connection. The city may require the applicant to study the traffic
implication of the encroachment on the surrounding city intersections and
roadways, as part of its encroachment application, and the feasibility of any
possible mitigation of such impact. Any such traffic studies shall be at the
sole cost of the applicant. The scope of such study shall be established by the
city at the time the application is filed.
      (3)   The cost (if any) to the city in allowing the connection and
encroachment. This includes the cost of the physical connection and the cost of
increased maintenance to city roadways by any increase in traffic related to
the connection.
      (4)   The city may waive any of the application and approval standards,
if, in the city's sole determination, the vehicular connection constitutes a
minor and inconsequential connection to the city's public roadway system.
   (D)   Determination. The determination as to whether an encroachment permit
for either an encroachment or for a new vehicular connection to city streets
shall be made as follows:
      (1)   Applicant shall submit its application to the City Administrative
Officer (CAO), who shall determine whether the application is complete. If it
is not complete, the CAO shall return the application to the applicant with
instructions as to how to resubmit.
      (2)   Once a complete application has been submitted, the CAO, the City
Engineer and the Public Works Commissioner shall review the application. For
minor excavations or connections, the Public Works Commissioner, with the
review and concurrence of the CAO and City Engineer, shall make a determination
whether the application should be approved or denied. For larger and more
consequential encroachments or connections, the CAO and the Public Works
Commissioner shall refer the application for the determination of the City
Commission. Approval or denial shall be evidenced by a written determination
with specific findings of fact supporting the approval or denial.
      (3)   Any applicant who has been denied an encroachment permit may appeal
that denial to the City Commission. Such appeal must be in writing and
delivered to the CAO no later than 30 days from the date of denial. Once
received, the applicant will be informed in writing of the date and time of the
appeal and the applicant shall be allowed to present evidence to the City
Commission in support of its appeal. The City Commission shall issue a final
written ruling on said appeal containing findings of fact.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 2-22-11; Am. Ord. 16-08, passed 10-11-16)
§ 91.02 STANDARDS FOR STREET WORK.
   (A)   The work must be done according to the standards set out in §§
91.01 and
91.02 of this chapter and otherwise be in accordance with the quality of work
required in the area for public work of like character.
   (B)   The work must not unreasonably interfere with vehicular and pedestrian
traffic, the demand and necessity for parking space, and the means of egress to
and from the property affected and adjacent properties.
   (C)   The public health, welfare and safety of the public will not be
unreasonably impaired.
   (D)   Any and all installation and repairs of concrete and asphalt repair
and patching must be in accordance with the following specifications:
      (1)   General. All materials and methods of construction shall conform to
Kentucky Transportation Cabinet, Department of Highways Specifications: Current
Edition with subsequent revisions.
      (2)   Concrete construction. Concrete shall be 3500 PSI (28 day),
Hurstbourne “Historic Mix #899,” call Allied Readymix for information) “ready
mixed” conforming to ASTM Specifications C-94. Air entraining admixture for
concrete shall conform to ASTM Specifications C-260-77. Reinforcing steel shall
be deformed steel bars conforming to ASTM Specification A615, Grade 60. Welded
wire fabric shall conform to ASTM Specification A185.
         (a)   Expansion joint filler shall be ½" remolded asphaltic
impregnated material conforming to ASTM D1751, latest revision, unless
otherwise noted on the plans.
         (b)   All concrete to be used in construction of headwalls, wingwalls,
culverts, catch basins or for any other structural purposes shown on the plans
shall be Class "A", 3,500 pounds per square inch and delivered only in
quantities for immediate use. Concrete which has set prior to placement shall
be discarded.
         (c)   Forms shall be constructed in accordance with ACI 347. Form ties
shall be removed to a point ½" inside the wall and the resulting holes filled
with a rich cement grout.
         (d)   Bending, placing, fastening and supporting of reinforcement
shall be in accordance with ACI (318-95).
         (e)   Mechanical, insertion type, internal vibrators shall be used to
compact the concrete.
         (f)   Concrete work shall be protected against frost and rapid drying
and kept moist at least three days after placing. Concrete may not be placed
when the temperature is below 35º F., unless sufficient framework and canvas or
other housing is maintained at 50º F. by the contractor.
      (3)   Concrete curb. All curbs or curb and gutters are to be constructed
of Class "A" Concrete, 3500 pounds per square inch test, and are to be uniform
in height, width and alignment, true to grade and satisfactory in finish and
appearance. All materials and methods of construction, including curing, to be
in accordance with Section 506 of the Kentucky Department of Highways Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, latest edition.
         (a)   All concrete curbs shall have expansion joints constructed at
intervals of not less than six feet nor more than 30 feet, and ½" pre-molded
expansion joint material, cut to conform to the curb or to the curb and gutter
section, shall be used in each expansion joint.
         (b)   When curbs and gutters and/or island curbs are removed and
replaced the area behind curbs shall be tamped and brought up to grade. This
area shall be filled with suitable earthen materials, seeded and strawed, if
necessary. All disturbed areas shall be seeded and strawed. All curbs shall be
replaced in kind with the color of concrete that gives the appearance of being
as aged as the existing curb.
         (c)   Caution shall be exercised when removing a median curb so as not
to damage any sprinkler piping or watering heads. If any of the sprinkler
system is damaged it will be repaired by the contractor at no additional cost.
      (4)   Dense graded aggregate base. The base shall be of the course or
courses identified as existing in the pavement section excavated and, as
specified, dense graded aggregate with water, placed and compacted according to
Section 303 of Kentucky Transportation Department Specifications and conforming
to line and grade.
         (a)   The aggregate shall be crushed limestone as required by Section
805.04.03 of Kentucky Department of Transportation Specifications, graded so as
to produce a final mixture in place, meeting the following:
            1 inch square sieve      100
            3/4 inch square sieve      70-100
            3/8 inch square sieve      50-80
            No. 4 square sieve      35-65
            No. 30 square sieve      10-40
            No. 200 square sieve      2-10
         (b)   The water shall be from approved supply, added to the extent
that a thin slurry forms on top of the base when compacted. The compacted depth
of each layer shall be no less than four inches (4").
         (c)   All work done under this item shall conform to Section 303 of
the Kentucky Department of Transportation Specifications.
      (5)   Backfilling trench. Trenches shall be backfilled in six-inch layers
and each layer thoroughly tamped to pavement sub-grade for pipe laid under the
proposed paving. Pipe laid outside the limits of the paving or curb and gutter
shall be tamped in six-inch layers to the top of the pipe where no paving or
entrance drives are encountered. Where entrance drives or cross streets are
encountered, tamping shall be as described in six-inch layers to the pavement
sub-grade. Where tamping is only required to the top of the pipe, the remainder
of the ditch shall be backfilled with loose earth and earth heaped above the
top of the ground over the trench and allowed to settle until towards
completion of the project, after which excess earth shall be removed from the
top of the trench to the level of the ground and disposed of by the contractor.
      (6)   Excavation and replacement of damaged pavement. Upon excavation of
asphalt roadways for utility work, the existing sub-grade and sub-base is to be
thoroughly compacted by use of a mechanical tamp and/or vibratory roller. When
compaction is complete, repave the areas using the Kentucky Department of
Highways Specification Material; asphaltic concrete base. After tack coat has
been installed and allowed to reach the tacky stage as provided above, a course
or courses of the total thickness to match the existing pavement section of
Class I Type "A" Bituminous Concrete or equivalent shall be constructed in
accordance with all provisions of the Kentucky Department of Transportation
Specifications 402. This base material shall be placed and thoroughly compacted
in not more than four (4") inch thick layers, to match the existing pavement
section excavated and matching the elevation of the existing pavement surface
course. The finished project shall be a neat and smooth riding surface.
         (a)   SS-1h tack coat shall be applied to asphalt binder at a rate of
0.10 gallons per square yard. Tack coat shall in all respects meet the Kentucky
Department of Transportation, Specifications 407.
         (b)   All joints shall be sealed with Crack Master Supreme #M105OL. No
drainage pockets or ruts will be permitted.
         (c)   When patching a specific pavement area (instead of providing a
full asphalt overlay), joints for the base asphalt, as well as the surface
course asphalt shall be sealed, with no pockets or ruts permitted as noted
above.
         (d)   Alternatively, for utility repairs, restoration can be performed
by installation of 6" to 8" Class "A" concrete cap over the utility trench in
place of the existing base material. The concrete cap shall be installed a
minimum of 12" beyond either side of the utility trench. The asphalt pavement
saw cut shall be a minimum of 12" either side of this concrete cap and shall be
installed with standard edge key. (Refer to typical utility trench restoration
detail attached to Ordinance 11-02.)
(Ord. 11-02, passed 2-22-11; Am. Ord. 13-02, passed 3-12-13; Am. Ord. 16-08,
passed 10-11-16)
§ 91.03 STREET CURB CONSTRUCTION AND DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Any driveway repair or resurfacing that involves any change of any kind to
the street curb must comply with the construction and design standards
contained in the City of Hurstbourne Driveway Detail.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 3-12-13)
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Commission for approval.
All sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the specifications
adopted by the City Commission and shall be compliant with the Americans with
Disabilities Act. No bricks, stamping or other surface treatments not
authorized in the city’s specifications may be used in sidewalk construction.
(Am. Ord. 13-02, passed 3-12-13)
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
moneys for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allowany person to speak with
regard to any proposed project which he or she feels should be built or done
which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and any
other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100 (1))
§ 91.17 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
    The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting them.
(KRS 174.100 (2))
§ 91.18 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100 (3))
§ 91.19 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100 (4))
§ 91.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
    The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused disasters
nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100 (5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
   Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building, or other obstruction to remain thereon. No new installation,
or replacement of any temporary or permanent humps, bumps, ramps or any other
structure in the city’s curb and gutter shall be allowed after the effective
date of this section, unless it is construction that complies with the city
driveway detail, as set out in §
91.03. Each day that any fence or building or other construction is permitted
to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
(Am. Ord. 13-02, passed 3-12-13) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as
to interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
   Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 91.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions,
accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed
12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may
have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
SPEED HUMPS
§ 91.45 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply for the purposes of this policy only.
   “APPLICATIONS.” For speed humps, include a petition of the affected property
owners (§
91.49 (B)(4)).
   “FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION.” The process by which streets and highways are
grouped into classes or systems according to the character of service they are
intended to provide. (Highway Functional Classification and Needs Study
Manual).
      (1)   “ARTERIAL SYSTEM.” Provides for through traffic movement between
areas and across the city with limited access to abutting property, subject to
access controls and curb uses.
      (2)   “COLLECTOR SYSTEM.” Provides for traffic movement between arterials
and local streets, with limited access to abutting properties.
      (3)   “LOCAL SYSTEM.” Provides direct access to abutting properties.
   “MUTCD.” Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   “ROADWAYS.” That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term “ROADWAY” as used herein shall refer to
any roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   “SPEED HUMPS.” Geometric design feature of a roadway, consisting of a raised
area in the roadway pavement surface, extending transversely across the travel
way, whose primary purpose is to reduce the speed of vehicles traveling along
the roadway.
   “STREET.” The entire street length upon the street on which a hump is to be
installed, which is within the city limits.
(Ord. 16-07, passed 6-28-16)
§ 91.46 ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   All of the following criteria must be satisfied for a street to be
considered eligible for speed hump installation.
   (A)   Petition. A petition that documents that a minimum of 70% of all the
property owners. within the city limits as set forth in section §
91.49 (B)(4) supports the installation of speed humps. In gauging the level of
support or opposition, the city will apply one “vote” per household. Joint or
multiple property owners must sign to be counted. Unsigned owners on any
petition or ballot will be counted as an opposition vote to the installation of
speed humps. In the case of dual joint ownership, both owners must vote in the
affirmative or the ballot will be counted as an opposition vote. In the case of
multiple owners (more than two) of a particular property, a majority will
determine the overall property vote.
   (B)   Location of the street. The land uses of the properties abutting the
street where the speed hump is proposed must be composed of primarily
residential dwellings. Only public roadways which have been accepted as part of
the City’s roadway system may be considered.
   (C)   Operational characteristics of the street.
      (1)   The street must be used to provide access to abutting primarily
residential properties. The street must not be identified as a collector of
higher level street, as defined by the Jefferson County Comprehensive Plan,
Core Graphic 13.
      (2)   There must be no more than one moving lane of traffic in each
direction.
      (3)   Traffic volumes must be more than 500 but less than 3,000 vehicles,
two-way volume per day.
      (4)   The street must have a speed limit of no greater than 25 m.p.h.
      (5)   The appropriate fire district will review and comment, in writing,
on all proposed speed hump locations. Should they identify significant
concerns, which cannot be corrected, the city will not install speed humps.
   (D)   Geometric characteristics of the street.
      (1)   The street must have adequate sight distances to safely accommodate
the hump as determined, in writing, by the City, as defined in the Traffic
Engineering Handbook.
      (2)   The street must not have curves or grades that prevent safe
placement of the humps. Humps may be located on streets that contain curves
and/or grades, but the hump itself shall not be located within a significant
horizontal curve, or have a vertical grade greater than 8%.
      (3)   The street must be paved. If there are no curbs, a special design
of speed hump must be used to prevent vehicles from going around the speed
hump.
(Ord. 16-07, passed 6-28-16)
§ 91.47 SPEED HUMP LOCATION.
   The exact speed hump location is subject to traffic safety and operations
requirements as determined and approved by the City of Hurstbourne Commission.
(Ord. 16-07, passed 6-28-16)
§ 91.48 DESIGN STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES.
   The city will prepare and maintain current design standards and installation
procedures for speed humps according to this policy. Application and design of
speed humps shall comply with the Institute of Transportation Engineers,
Recommended Practice, Guidelines for the Design and Application of Speed Humps.
All signage and pavement markings shall comply with the current edition of the
MUTCD. Should signage and markings not be defined in the MUTCD, they shall
comply with ITE’s recommended practice, Guidelines for the Design and
Application of Speed Humps.
(Ord. 16-07, passed 6-28-16)
§ 91.49 PROCEDURES FOR SPEED HUMP INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The initial request for the installation of speed humps must originate
from the property owners on the street. A request in writing from an individual
citizen or a representative of a neighborhood group must be and shall remain
the named “sponsor” of the request, subsequent petitions, supporting
documentation and communications relating to such action. All documentation
must be forwarded to the following address:
      City Hurstbourne
      200 Whittington Pkwy. Ste. 100
      Louisville, KY 40222
      Attn: City Administrative Officer
   (B)   The city will make a preliminary determination of eligibility based on
available traffic data in a timely matter.
      (1)   If the street is determined not to be eligible, the applicant’s
representative will be given written notification of that determination and its
reasons.
      (2)   The decision may be appealed in writing to the city within 15 days
of the notification date.
      (3)   If the street is determined to be eligible for consideration, a
meeting will be arranged between the applicant’s representative, appropriate
city staff to define the petition area, the approximated speed hump location
range and funding options.
      (4)   The applicant’s representative must submit a petition including the
following: a minimum of 70% of the property owners (located within 2,640 feet
or one half mile of linear street-travelled distance) of any proposed speed
hump location supporting the installation of speed humps as provided in the
speed hump policy. All petitioners agree in cost-sharing portion of 50% of all
expenses associated with installation of speed hump or humps. All cost share
proceeds shall be payable to the City, collected by the petition sponsor and
remitted to the City before the initiation of any professional services,
studies, surveys, licenses, permits and construction required in the
installation of speed hump or humps. Only petition forms supplied by the City
may be used for this purpose.
   (C)   After verification of the petitions, the city may conduct additional
transportation engineering studies, including but not limited to traffic
volume, accident and speed studies, and solicit comments and recommendations of
other agencies, including but not limited emergency service and Solid Waste
Management. A determination of the street’s eligibility for speed hump
installation will be made, in writing and in a timely manner, to the
applicant’s sponsor based on the speed hump policy.
      (1)   If the street is determined not to be eligible for speed hump
installation, the applicant’s sponsor will be notified in writing giving the
reason(s).
      (2)   The decision may be appealed within 15 days to City Commission.
      (3)   If the street is determined to be eligible, the street will be
placed on a list of streets eligible for speed hump installation. The City will
notify, in writing, the applicant’s sponsor.
   (D)   The city will make a determination of the total design, engineering
and installation costs according to the speed hump policy. Upon review by the
City Engineer and prior to any final action by the Commission, the applicant’s
sponsor will be notified, in writing, providing full details regarding the
number of speed humps, location of speed humps and estimated costs as
determined by the City Engineer. Any costs over the estimate will be borne
entirely by the city. Any costs under the estimate will be returned to the
applicable petitioners.
(Ord. 16-07, passed 6-28-16)
§ 91.50 SPEED HUMP REMOVAL AND ALTERATION.
   The process for speed hump removal or alteration by citizens is the same as
the process for installation with the exceptions that no petition shall be
considered until three years have expired after installation and the
petitioners cost-share associated with such removal shall be set at 75% of the
total; and, in addition, the removal procedure and cost share only applies to
those speed humps that were installed after the effective date of this
ordinance. The City retains the authority to remove or alter any speed hump
upon its own.
(Ord. 16-07, passed 6-28-16)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction, be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   (1)The city may, upon repeated violation of §§
91.01 or
91.02, require any entity to post a performance bond prior to initiating any
work in the city, by cash or certified check, in the amount of $15.00 per
square foot of the area to be disturbed (minimum fee of $150.00), to defray the
cost of performing repair and restoration work.
      (2)   Upon the failure of any entity to properly repair and restore any
cut, excavation, or alteration, the city may authorize the repair or
restoration of the area in a proper manner and charge said cost to the entity
who made the repair, cut, excavation, or alteration (and/or the entity upon
whose behalf the work was done). In the event the city must make the repair or
restoration, the city shall have a lien against any property of said entities
(it any) that the work directly benefits, or on whose behalf it was undertaken.
The lien shall be on record in the Clerk's office and shall bear interest at
12% per annum thereafter until paid.
      (3)   In addition to the remedies set out above, the city shall cite any
person, utility, company or entity for each violation and any person, utility,
company or entity violating §§
91.01 or
91.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall pay a fine of
not more than $500.00, or be imprisoned not to exceed six months, or both fine
or imprisonment. Each street, sidewalk, right-of-way, easement, or drain which
is cut, excavated, burrowed, tunneled, bored, disturbed, damages or altered,
shall be deemed a separate offense. Further, if deemed necessary by the city to
protect the public ways and public utilities of the city, any entity repeatedly
violating §§
91.01 or
91.02 may be denied permission to make any future cuts or excavations.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 2-22-11)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   (Reserved)
   
92.02   (Reserved)
   
92.03   (Reserved)
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
Abandoned, Wrecked or Junked Vehicles
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Storing abandoned or junked vehicles on private property prohibited;
exception
   
92.17   Declaration of nuisance; responsibility for abatement
   
92.18   Additional remedy; notice; removal by city hearing
   
92.19   Removal by agreement
Restriction of Nuisances
   
92.30   Public purpose
   
92.31   Definitions
   
92.32   Property maintenance standards
   
92.33   Responsibility for property maintenance
   
92.34   Emergency cleanup or abatement
   
92.35   Appeals
   
92.36   Severability
Portable Storage Containers and Trailers Used for Storage
   
92.50   Purpose
   
92.51   Application of regulations
   
92.52   Definitions
   
92.53   Permit and conditions
   
92.54   Placement on lot
   
92.55   Exceptions
   
92.56   Fees
   
92.57   Advertising
   
92.58   Enforcement
Sustained Criminal Activity at a Property to be Deemed a Public Nuisance
   
92.65   Chronic nuisance property
   
92.66   Definitions
   
92.67   Procedure; city enforcement
   
92.68   Procedure; resident enforcement
   
92.69   Commencement of actions; remedies; burden of proof
   
92.70   Summary closure
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 (RESERVED).
§ 92.02 (RESERVED).
§ 92.03 (RESERVED).
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) it shall be unlawful for the owner,
occupant, or person having control or management of any land within the city to
permit a public nuisance, health hazard, or source of filth to develop thereon
through the accumulation of:
      (1)   Junked or wrecked automobiles, vehicles, machines, or other similar
scrap or salvage materials, excluding inoperative farm equipment;
      (2)   One or more mobile or manufactured homes as defined in KRS 227.550
that are junked, wrecked, or nonoperative and which are not inhabited;
      (3)   Rubbish; or
      (4)   The excessive growth of weeds or grass.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A)(1) shall not apply to:
      (1)   Junked, wrecked, or nonoperative automobiles, vehicles, machines,
or other similar scrap or salvage materials located on the business premises of
a licensed automotive recycling dealer as defined under the provisions of KRS
190.010(8); and
      (2)   Any motor vehicle as defined in KRS 281.011 that is owned,
controlled, operated, managed, or leased by a motor carrier.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful in the city for the owner of a property to permit
any structure upon the property to become unfit and unsafe for human
habitation, occupancy, or use or to permit conditions to exist in the structure
which are dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the occupants of
the structure, the occupants of neighboring structures, or other residents of
the city, county, consolidated local government, or urban-county.
   (D)   (1)The city may establish by ordinance reasonable standards and
procedures for the enforcement of this section. The procedures shall comply
with all applicable statutes, administrative regulations, or codes. Proper
notice shall be given to property owners before any action is taken pursuant to
this section; and, prior to the demolition of any unfit or unsafe structure,
the right to a hearing shall be afforded the property owner.
      (2)   Whenever a nuisance situation is discovered, the authorized city
official shall give five days’ written notice to remedy the nuisance situation.
The notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner of property,
as it appears on the current tax assessment roll. Upon the failure of the owner
of the property to comply, the authorized city official is authorized to send
employees upon the property to remedy the situation.
   (E)   (1)The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the nuisance situation. The
affidavit of the authorized city official shall constitute prima facie evidence
of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS
65.8840 and this section, and shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk.
      (2)   The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its
recording and shall bear interest at the rate established by the city
thereafter until paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other
subsequent liens, except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may
be enforced by judicial proceeding.
      (3)   In addition to this remedy or any other remedy authorized by law,
the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached pursuant to this
section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien, including all
interest, civil penalties, and other charges and the city may bring a civil
action against the owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt owed.
   (F)   The provisions of divisions (D) and (E) shall not apply to an owner,
occupant, or person having control or management of any land located in an
unincorporated area if the owner, occupant, or person is not the generator of
the rubbish or is not dumping or knowingly allowing the dumping of the rubbish
and has made reasonable efforts to prevent the dumping of rubbish by other
persons onto the property.
(Revised 2-08)
Statutory reference:
   Abatement procedure, see KRS. 65.8840
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City Commission that a
nuisance exists and the City Commission deems that there is an immediate threat
to the public health, safety, welfare, the City Commission may by majority vote
suspend the license of any person conducting business upon the premises where
the nuisance exists.
   (B)   The City Clerk/City Administrative Officer shall cause notice of the
suspension to be served personally upon the licensee or at the premises where
the nuisance exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, the City Commission may remove the
suspension upon such terms as it may direct.
ABANDONED, WRECKED OR JUNKED VEHICLES
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ABANDONED VEHICLE." Any automobile or machine or parts thereof which is
left upon public or private property within the city under circumstances
indicating a desertion, relinquishment, non-use, or divestment so as to
indicate a discarded vehicle.
   "CITY." The City of Hurstbourne.
   "DIRECTOR." The Citation Officer of the city, or his designated
representative, or a person designated by the City Commission.
   "JUNKED VEHICLE." Any vehicle or parts thereof which does not have lawfully
affixed thereto a current license plate and has in effect current motor vehicle
insurance and which, in the judgment of a reasonable prudent man observing
community standards is in one or more of the following conditions: rusted,
wrecked, partially dismantled or otherwise non-functional and which is not
functional as a vehicle. Junked vehicles may be deemed to include major parts
thereof, including but not limited to bodies, engines, transmissions or rear
ends.
   "PRIVATE PROPERTY." Any real property in the city which is not owned by the
City of Hurstbourne, Jefferson County, Commonwealth of Kentucky or the federal
government, or property dedicated to public use.
   "PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY." Private property as defined above, located
in any area zoned residential by the city.
   "VEHICLE." Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or an
agricultural vehicle not requiring a license to be operated upon a public
highway.
   "VEHICLE OWNER." Any individual, firm, corporation, or unincorporated
association with a claim of ownership or any legal or equitable interest in a
vehicle.
(Ord. 96-03, passed 9-23-96)
§ 92.16 STORING ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, store, leave or permit
parking or storing of any junked or abandoned vehicle of any kind, or part
thereof, for a period of time in excess of seven days, upon any private
residential property.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building
or to a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful
place and manner, when necessary to the operation of such business enterprise,
or to a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the city.
(Ord. 96-03, passed 9-23-96) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE; RESPONSIBILITY FOR ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The accumulation and storage of one or more of such abandoned or
junked vehicles or part thereof as defined, on private property shall be deemed
a nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the registered owner of the vehicle, the owner
of record of the property, and the person in possession of the private property
upon which such vehicle or part thereof is located, to abate the nuisance
through removal of the vehicle, or to have the same housed in a building where
it will not be visible.
(Ord. 96-03, passed 9-23-96) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 ADDITIONAL REMEDY; NOTICE; REMOVAL BY CITY HEARING.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties provided in §
92.99, the Director may issue written notice and order to the registered owner
of any abandoned or junked vehicle, or part thereof, which constitutes a
violation of the ordinance or to the owner or person in possession of private
property upon which said abandoned or junked vehicle, or parts thereof, may be
situated requiring that said vehicle, or parts thereof, be removed from the
property or that said violation be otherwise removed and abated within ten
days.
   (B)   The notice provided for in division (A) may be served upon the
appropriate party either personally or by certified and regular mail to the
last known address of the appropriate party. If the notice is sent by mail, the
ten day notice period shall commence two business days after the notice is
mailed. In addition, notice shall be conspicuously affixed to the abandoned or
junked vehicle or parts thereof.
   (C)   In the event that any person fails to comply with an order issued
pursuant to division (A) the Director or his designate may have the abandoned
or junked vehicle, or parts thereof, removed and disposed of and may impose
upon the person violating the order a charge to cover the direct and indirect
costs, if any, for the removal and disposition of said vehicle or parts
thereof.
   (D)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued pursuant to division (A) may
request a hearing from the Director or his designee.
      (1)   Such request must be filed in writing with a $25 filing fee within
five days after the notice is served.
      (2)   The Director or his designate shall be the hearing officer.
      (3)   Removal under division (C) shall be suspended pending the hearing.
The $25 filing fee may be refunded to the aggrieved person if the hearing
officer finds that the ordinance has not been violated.
      (4)   Final determination concerning compliance shall be within the sole
discretion of the hearing officer.
(Ord. 96-03, passed 9-23-96) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 REMOVAL BY AGREEMENT.
   The Director, or his designate may, upon the proper execution of a waiver
and authorization agreement in a form approved by the attorney for the city and
subject to the available resources thereof, remove or dispose of any abandoned
or junked vehicle, or parts thereof, at no cost to the person involved.
(Ord. 96-03, passed 9-23-96)
RESTRICTION OF NUISANCES
§ 92.30 PUBLIC PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Commission hereby finds that it is necessary to provide for
the abatement of conditions which are: offensive or annoying to the senses,
detrimental to property values and community appearance, an obstruction to or
interference with the comfortable enjoyment of adjacent property or premises,
or hazardous or injurious to the health, safety or welfare of the general
public in such ways to constitute a public nuisance; and, to provide standards
to safeguard life, health and public welfare in keeping with the character of
the city by allowing for the maintenance of property and premises for each of
the following purposes:
      (1)   To safeguard the health, safety and welfare of the people by
maintaining property and premises in good and appropriate condition;
      (2)   To promote a sound and attractive community appearance; and
      (3)   To enhance the economic value of the community, and each area in
it, through the regulation of the maintenance of property or premises.
   (B)   Accordingly, the City Commission finds and declares that the purpose
of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Reduce the threat to health, safety, welfare, appearance and
economic value due to the decline in property conditions by lawfully
delineating the circumstances under which such conditions may be considered
illegal and/or abated; and further finds that,
      (2)   Abatement of such condition(s) is in the best interest of the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city because maximum use and
enjoyment of property or premises in proximity to one another depends upon
maintenance of those properties or premises at or above the minimum standard.
(Ord. 09-06, passed 8-11-09)
§ 92.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ABANDONED.” In addition to those definitions provided by state codes, local
ordinances and case law, the term means and refers to any item, which has
ceased to be used for its designed and intended purpose. The following factors,
among others, will be considered in determining whether or not an item has been
abandoned:
      (1)   Present operability and functional utility;
      (2)   Has ceased to be used for is designated and intended purpose;
      (3)   The date of last effective use;
      (4)   The condition of disrepair or damage;
      (5)   The last time an effort was made to repair or rehabilitate the
item;
      (6)   The status of registration or licensing of the item;
      (7)   The age and degree of obsolescence;
      (8)   The cost of rehabilitation or repair of the item versus its market
value; and
      (9)   The nature of the area and location of the item. (Items such as
furniture, toys, appliances, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, washing machines,
dryers, dishwashers, water heaters, television sets, and the like left outside
the home in view for over 48 hours and includes items not intended for use or
storage in an outdoor environment.
   “ABATE.” To repair, replace, remove, destroy or otherwise remedy the
condition in question by such means and in such a manner and to such an extent
as the City Administrative Officer, or other person or employee as may be
designated by the City Commission to enforce city ordinances in his or her
judgment shall determine is necessary in the interest of the general health,
safety and welfare of the community.
   “ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE.” Any condition, instrument or machine which is unsafe,
unprotected and may prove detrimental to children whether in a building, on the
premises of a building, or on an unoccupied lot. This includes any abandoned
wells, shafts, basements or excavations; abandoned refrigerators and motor
vehicles; any structurally unsound fences or structures; or, any lumber,
building materials, trash, fences, debris or vegetation which may prove
hazardous or dangerous to inquisitive minors.
   “DESIGNATED ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.” The City Administrative Officer, or other
person or employee as may be designated by the City Commission to enforce city
ordinances.
   “DISMANTLED.” That from which essential equipment, parts or contents have
been removed or stripped and the outward appearance verifies the removal.
   “GARBAGE.” The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food and similar animal and vegetable
refuse whether liquid or solid, or any accumulation of any sour, decaying or
putrescent substance, either gas or solid.
   “GOOD REPAIR.” External structure elements of buildings being maintained in
a state of repair, which allows that element to provide the functional use for
which it was intended.
   “ILLEGAL DISPLAY OR STORAGE.” Items in view that are not in a lawful four
wall with roof enclosure and not intended for seasonal or immediate use on the
property where displayed, items partial or fully concealed with a covering
violate this section, in-view for over 48 hours.
   “INOPERATIVE.” Incapable of functioning or producing activity for mechanical
or other reasons.
   “IN-VIEW.” Any nuisance that can be seen from any public view or from any
adjacent private property.
   “LIENHOLDER.” Any person, as defined in this section, who has a recorded
interest in real property, including mortgagee, beneficiary under a deed of
trust, or holder of other recorded liens or claims of interest in real
property.
   “NUISANCE.” Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity
jurisprudence, or any condition defined as a nuisance under this ordinance.
   “OWNER.” means the registered owner of a vehicle, the person(s) to whom
property tax is assessed on real or personal property, as shown on the last
equalized assessment roll of the county, renter(s), lessor(s) and other
occupants residing permanently or temporarily on property.
   “PERSON.” Individual, partnership, joint venture, corporation, association,
social club, fraternal organization, trust, estate, receiver or any other
entity.
   “PREMISES/PROPERTY.” Any building, lot, parcel, real estate, or land or
portion of land whether improved or unimproved, occupied or unoccupied.
   “RESIDENT.” Any person over the age of 18 who lives part or full time at the
residence where the violation is alleged to have occurred in the city.
   “SCRAP METAL.” Metal pieces or parts no longer being used for its intended
purpose.
   “STAGNANT/POLLUTED WATER.” Standing water for longer than four days, without
proper drainage or disbursement.
   “STRUCTURE.” Anything constructed, built or planted upon, any edifice or
building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of
parts joined together in some definite manner, which structure requires
location on the ground or is attached to something having a location on the
ground, including fences, gates, garages, carports, swimming and wading pools,
patios, outdoor areas, paved areas, walks, tennis courts and similar recreation
areas.
   “UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE.” Any household item, object, etc., or any device
used to carry out a specific function which has served its usefulness (or is no
longer being used) and is more or less in its original form and can no longer
be used for its originally intended purpose or having defective or missing
parts or in such a condition generally as to being unfit for further use or
conveyance.
   “WASTE ITEMS.” Boxes, bags, plastic, paper, clothing, discarded or unused
items, trash, filth, waste material (solid or liquid), litter, rubbish, debris,
building materials or any kind not being utilized for a current lawful on going
construction project on site, containers or refuse of any kind left in view for
over 48 hours.
   “WRECKED.” That which has outward manifestation or appearance of damage to
parts and contents, which may or may not be essential to operation.
   “WEEDS.” Unhealthful plant growth such as but not limited to jimson,
burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, or any other growth of a like kind or any
plant growth not intended for aesthetic appeal or other legitimate purpose,
such as crops, trees, bushes, flowers, ornamental plants. Whether a certain
plant or plant is "ornamental" shall be solely determined by the City
Administrative Officer, or other person or employee as may be designated by the
City Commission to enforce city ordinances, after consideration as to whether
the plant and planting, taken as a whole, evidences some reasonably discernable
and clearly recognizable beautification purpose.
      (1)   Evidence of the ornamental characteristics include, but are not
limited to:
         (a)   Defined planting boundaries,
         (b)   Evidence that the resident actually works on the plant and
plantings regularly to provide for a reasonable landscape scheme,
         (c)   Has employed landscape professionals in the planning of the
plants or plantings,
         (d)   Can articulate a discernable landscaping scheme for the plants
or plantings,
         (e)   Has spent money on the creation and upkeep of the plants or
plantings.
      (2)   Evidence of the non-ornamental characteristics include, but are not
limited to:
         (a)   That the plants or plantings grew from wild starts, without
being planted by human hands,
         (b)   That the species of plants are not recognized as typical
landscaping stock for the area,
         (c)   That the resident does not spend regular time tending the
material,
         (d)   That there are no defined boundaries to the plants or plantings,
         (e)   That no money has been spent on the plants or plantings.
(Ord. 09-06, passed 8-11-09)
§ 92.32 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance for any owner or other person
in control of said property or premises to keep or maintain the outdoor area of
the property, premises or rights-of-way in such a manner that any of the
following conditions are found to exist:
   (A)   Abandoned, dismantled, wrecked, inoperable, and discarded objects,
equipment or appliances such as, but not limited to, water heaters,
refrigerators, furniture which is not designed for outdoor use, household
fixtures, machinery, equipment, or cans or containers standing or stored on
property or on sidewalks or streets.
   (B)   Discarded food, garbage, rubbish, refuse.
   (C)   Oil, grease, paint, other petroleum products, hazardous materials,
volatile chemicals, pesticides, herbicides, fungicides or waste (solid, liquid
or gaseous), which is determined by the City Administrative Officer, or other
person or employee as may be designated by the City Commission to enforce city
ordinances to constitute a fire or environmental hazard, or to be detrimental
to human life, health or safety;
   (D)   Lumber (excluding lumber for a construction project on the property
with a valid permit), salvage materials, including but not limited to auto
parts, scrap metals, tires, other materials stored on premises in excess of 72
hours and visible from a public street, walkway, alley or other public
property.
   (E)   Incomplete projects. Any renovation or construction to structures or
grounds must be completed through consistent, sustained effort and no such
building or grounds under construction or renovation may be allowed to be
uncompleted for an unreasonable length of time, given due consideration to the
type of project. A period of 120 days without consistent, sustained effort to
complete the project shall be an unreasonable length of time, without
sufficient, specific, written explanation for said delay.
   (F)   Receptacles for discarded materials and recyclables which are left in
view from the public roadway before and/or following the day of the regularly
scheduled refuse pick-up for the property; no garbage, yard waste or recycling
items shall be placed out for collection in view of a public street more than
24 hours prior to the collection day. The containers for such items must be
removed from view of any public street within 24 hours after the day of
collection. Recyclable items which have not been recycled within 30 days of
being deposited on the property which are determined by the City Administrative
Officer, or other person or employee as may be designated by the City
Commission to enforce city ordinances to constitute a fire hazard or to be
detrimental to human life, health or safety.
   (G)   Swimming pool, pond, spa, other body of water, or excavation which is
abandoned, unattended, unsanitary, empty, or (if not in use) does not have a
secure and safe cover, which will not collect water and is effective and
suitable which is not securely fenced, or which is determined by the City
Administrative Officer, or other person or employee as may be designated by the
City Commission to enforce city ordinances to be detrimental to life, health or
safety.
   (H)   Any premises which detrimentally impacts the surrounding neighborhood
because of dilapidation, deterioration or decay or is unsafe for the purpose
for which it is being used or is not secured or is improperly secured.
   (I)   Permits any structure/residence to become unfit and/or unsafe for
human habitation or occupancy, or to permit condition to exist in the structure
which are dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the occupants or
the structure, the occupants of neighboring structures, or other residences of
the city. All residences within the city shall have a safe and operable
connection to water, electric/gas, and sewer services. Residents who are in the
process of construction and are in compliance with division (E) above are
exempt from this section during the construction.
   (J)   Permits any weeds, or grass growth other than crops, trees or
ornamental plants or shrubs, to grow to a height exceeding six inches. It shall
be the duty of any owner, operator, agent, or occupant, occupying or
controlling property abutting a public street within the City of Hurstbourne,
to maintain all grass to a height of six inches, to remove all refuse, weeds,
trash, waste and litter from the sidewalks, curbing, to the edge of the
pavement of such streets as are adjacent to or abut such property.
   (K)   Permits or causes the interface with any obstruction of a drainage
ditch, device or system as to inhibit, alter, or prevent proper drainage
patterns.
   (L)   Permits the accumulation of ashes, leaves, wood, lumber, limbs, twigs,
storm debris and/or any residue from the burning of any combustible material.
   (M)   All firewood must be stacked in cord like fashion and no more than two
cords allowed on any lot at one time. No pieces to exceed 48 inches in length.
The stack must be at least six inches off the ground, supported by a minimum of
non-decaying supports to permit proper air circulation and no higher than five
feet. Persons who heat primarily with wood may apply to the city for special
storage permission.
   (N)   Any tree, stack, or other object standing in such a condition that is
likely to, if the condition is allowed to continue, endanger life, limb or
property, or cause hurt, damage or injury to persons or property by falling
thereof or of parts thereof.
   (O)   Permits the dropping, deposit, or acquiesce in the dropping,
depositing, scattering in any manner, in or on any public or private property
any waste material of any kind, not including normal yard maintenance material.
   (P)   Permits any condition to exist that is injurious to the public health.
Such as but not limited to:
      (1)   Unlawful storage of explosives
      (2)   Having an uncovered well, pit or any excavation or situated upon
any premises in any open lot or plane that any reasonable or prudent man should
realize should be injurious to human health.
      (3)   The failure to keep an animal's pen, yard, lot or other enclosure
in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive odors.
      (4)   Permits the presence of polluted water, or the accumulation of any
substance that attracts vermin, rodents, insects, or animals or is otherwise
injurious to the public health.
      (5)   Permits the unlawful burning of any refuse, garbage, or waste or
material of any kind.
   (Q)   Permits any condition to exist that causes a building or grounds not
to be in good repair. Such as but not limited to:
      (1)   Every window; exterior door; basement; porch; roof; eaves;
foundation; exterior wall; exterior stairs; shall be reasonably watertight;
weathertight; bird, animal, and rodent proof; and shall be kept in sound
condition and good repair.
      (2)   All exterior wood surfaces, other than decay resistant woods, shall
be protected from the elements and decay by paint, which is not lead-based
paint, or by other protective covering or treatment. Peeling paint is a
violation of this section.
      (3)   All gutters, shutters, down spouts and any other parts of the
exterior of the home shall be maintained in good condition and be fit for their
intended purpose.
   (R)   Any other condition on a property which meets the requirements of
subparagraph (1) below:
      (1)   Is injurious to health, or is indecent or offensive to the senses,
or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
(Ord. 09-06, passed 8-11-09)
§ 92.33 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The owner and/or resident of any property within the city shall be
responsible for the maintenance of property and premises in a manner consistent
with the provisions of this subchapter and the Code of the City of Hurstbourne,
Metro Louisville Ordinances, Land Development Code, Kentucky Revised Statutes
and the Kentucky Building Code.
   (B)   Enforcement of this subchapter may be accomplished by the City
Administrative Officer, or other person or employee as may be designated by the
City Commission to enforce city ordinances in any manner authorized by this
subchapter or by any other law, including but not limited to issuance of
criminal citations, civil actions and abatement.
   (C)   Abatement of public nuisances:
      (1)   Non-exclusive authority to abate. The city may choose to abate any
public nuisance or violation of the City Code through any of the abatement
methods set forth in the City Code or in other local, state or federal law, and
nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed as limiting,
prejudicing, or adversely affecting the city's ability to concurrently or
consecutively use any of those proceedings as the city may deem are applicable.
Proceeding under this section will not preclude the city from proceeding under
other sections of this chapter. Whenever the City Administrative Officer, or
other person or employee as may be designated by the City Commission to enforce
city ordinances determines that any condition exists in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter, he/she may take enforcement action pursuant to
this section.
      (2)   Right of entry. The City Administrative Officer, or other person or
employee as may be designated by the City Commission to enforce city ordinances
may enter the outside of any property or premises at all times to perform any
duty imposed upon him/her by this subchapter if he/she has cause to believe a
violation of provisions of this chapter is occurring.
(Ord. 09-06, passed 8-11-09)
§ 92.34 EMERGENCY CLEANUP OR ABATEMENT.
   (A)   In order to enforce the provisions of this subchapter, when the City
Administrative Officer, or other person or employee as may be designated by the
City Commission to enforce city ordinances, finds and determine that the
severity of the violation warrants immediate action, he/she may clean up or
abate violation thereof. The cost of such cleanup or abatement may be recovered
by the city in a civil action. Such emergency cleanup or abatement will not
relieve the person of further action which may be taken by the City Commission
or its duly authorized agents and representatives, including but not limited
to, liability for any violations of this subchapter, or any other applicable
provisions of state law and local ordinances.
   (B)   Costs of enforcement. In any civil action commenced by the city under
this subchapter, the city shall be entitled to recover from the defendant of
such action, reasonable attorney's fees, costs of suit, any other costs of
enforcement, including but not limited to, inspection costs and cleanup or
abatement costs.
   (C)   Enforcement procedures and notice.
      (1)   The City hereby establishes the standards and procedures for the
enforcement of this subchapter under KRS 65.8840 as follows:
         (a)   Whenever such a situation is discovered, the City Administrative
Officer, or other person or employee as may be designated by the City
Commission to enforce city ordinances shall give five days written notice to
any one or more or all: the owner, operator, agent, occupant or person having
control or management of the property to remedy such situation.
         (b)   The notice shall be served upon the responsible person as stated
above, by mail, or by personal service. If by mail, it shall be addressed to
the last known address of the owner of the said property, as it appears on the
current tax assessment roll. The failure of any or all of the addresses to
receive the notice shall not invalidate any of the proceedings. Further, the
posting of notice of a hearing or order pursuant to this chapter shall be
conclusively deemed to be adequate notice to any and all occupants, users or
possessors of the property or its contents, and the failure of any such
occupant, user or possessor to see, read, understand or otherwise receive the
notice shall not invalidate any of the proceedings. Upon the failure to the
owner of the property to comply, the city is authorized to send employees or
persons hired by the city upon said property to remedy the situation.
      (2)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the situation. The affidavit of
the City Administrative Officer, or other person or employee as may be
designated by the City Commission to enforce city ordinances, shall constitute
prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the
proceedings pursuant to this ordinance and KRS 65.8840, and shall be recorded
in the Office of the Jefferson County Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all
persons from the time of its recording and shall bear interest thereafter until
paid at the rate of 1.5% per month, compounded monthly, and may be enforced by
judicial proceedings.
      (3)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in the previous sections of
this ordinance or any other remedy authorized by law, the owner of a property
upon which a lien has been attached pursuant to this section shall be
personally liable for the amount of the lien, including all interest, civil
penalties, and other charges and the City may bring a civil action against the
owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the recover of a debt
owed.
(Ord. 09-06, passed 8-11-09)
§ 92.35 APPEALS.
   Any action taken by the City Administrative Officer, or other person or
employee as may be designated by the City Commission to enforce city ordinances
may be appealed to the City Commission by any person cited hereunder. Such
appeal must be in writing, stating with specificity the grounds of the appeal
and it must be filed with the City Clerk within the same time allowed for
abatement (without extension). The grounds for the appeal shall be stated in
such appeal in detail. Such appeal shall be heard by the City Commission within
60 days of it being filed with the City Clerk. While such appeal is pending,
the abatement notice shall be held in abeyance.
(Ord. 09-06, passed 8-11-09)
§ 92.36 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, clause, sentence, paragraph, or phrase of this subchapter
or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held, for any
reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, to be invalid or unconstitutional,
such decision shall not affect the validity of other provisions or applications
of the provisions of this subchapter, which can be given effect without the
invalid provision or application, and to this end, the provisions of this
subchaapter are hereby declared to be severable. The City Council declares that
it would have passed this subchapter, and every section, subsection, sentence,
clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases were to be held invalid or
unconstitutional by such court.
(Ord. 09-06, passed 8-11-09)
PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS AND TRAILERS USED FOR STORAGE
§ 92.50 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate and limit the time and place
of the location of portable storage containers, trailers used for storage, or
temporary storage structures, on residentially zoned property in the city.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 7-10-07)
§ 92.51 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   This shall apply to all real estate located within the bounds of the city,
with the exception of lots zoned and used for commercial or industrial
purposes.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 7-10-07)
§ 92.52 DEFINITIONS.
   “PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS” shall mean and include any type of temporary
storage structure, including but not limited to the following:
   (A)   Portable On Demand Storage Devices. Vehicles or trailers whose primary
purpose on the property is to store personal property;
   (B)   Temporary building or structures, not otherwise covered by the
restrictions of the Land Development Code;
   (C)   Dumpsters (defined as movable containers that are used to store items
or debris pending removal from the property) are not covered by this subchapter
when properly located on the property being served;
   (D)   A single portable storage containers capable of not holding more than
a maximum of one cubic yard shall not be subject to this subchapter.
   (E)   Trash cans capable of holding not more than 100 gallons shall not be
subject to this subchapter.
   (F)   This subchapter shall not apply to a portable storage container which
is located in an enclosed area, such as an enclosed garage.
   (G)   The fact that a portable storage container is without wheels is
immaterial so long as the container is designed for and is capable of being
moved or relocated.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 7-10-07)
§ 92.53 PERMIT AND CONDITIONS.
   No portable storage containers as defined herein shall be allowed to be
located on or remain on any residentially zoned real estate in the city without
first securing from the city a permit.
   (A)   A permit shall be issued for a maximum of 14 days from the earlier of
the date of issuance or the date on which the portable storage container was
located upon the property.
   (B)   No more than two permits shall be issued for the location of a
portable storage container on the same lot during the same calendar year where
the lot is under the same ownership.
   (C)   Periods of three days or less shall not be counted where a portable
storage container is returned to the property for the purpose of unloading.
   (D)   The City Clerk or his/her designee shall provide application/permit
forms for the purpose of securing a permit.
   (E)   There shall be subtracted from the 14 days otherwise allowable two
days for each one day that the portable storage container is located on the
property without a valid permit.
   (F)   A permit shall state the date of issuance and an expiration date.
   (G)   The container shall not be placed on public property.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 7-10-07)
§ 92.54 PLACEMENT ON LOT.
   Portable storage containers, and similar devices shall not be located on the
street or public right-of-way. Where possible, such containers shall be placed
behind the front wall of the residence.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 7-10-07)
§ 92.55 EXCEPTIONS.
   In the case of emergencies, such as floods, wind storms, fires or other acts
of God, and man made disasters such as sewage back-ups, water leaks, electrical
overloads and other such events that damage property, code enforcement
officials shall not be allowed to enforce the provisions of this subchapter and
shall make reasonable allowance for the extension of all time periods, limits
on numbers of containers, locations of containers on the property or other
appropriate waivers where necessary to assist in recovery, restoration,
mitigation of further damage and construction efforts. A permit is still
required.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 7-10-07)
§ 92.56 FEES.
   At the time a permit is issued, the applicant shall pay a fee to the city of
$10.00, payable within 30 days of application. In the event that the permit is
not obtained within two days after the container is placed on the property
without a permit, the permit fee shall be $50.00 Dollars.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 7-10-07)
§ 92.57 ADVERTISING.
   The Portable Storage Container shall contain no commercial advertising or
graffiti. The name, address, and telephone number of the provider of the
container may be shown thereon. Any graffiti on the container shall be removed
within forty-eight (48) hours.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 7-10-07)
§ 92.58 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter may be enforced by any citation officer of the City of
Hurstbourne, or by the Louisville Metro Police Department, or as a civil matter
by a designee of the Hurstboume City Commission.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 7-10-07)
SUSTAINED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY AT A PROPERTY TO BE DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE
§ 92.65 CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY.
   Any person who permits property under his or her ownership or control to be
a chronic nuisance property, as defined herein, shall be in violation of this
chapter and subject to its remedies.
(Ord. 22-1, passed 2-8-22)
§ 92.66 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “CITY COMMISSION.” The City Commission of the City of Hurstbourne.
   “CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY.” Property on which certain nuisance activities
defined herein exist or have occurred with the frequency described herein
during any 12-month period.
   “CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.” A Code Enforcement Officer as defined in KRS
65.8805.
   “CONTROL.” The authority to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract, or
govern property, or conduct what occurs on a property.
   “GOOD CAUSE.” Circumstances beyond the ability of a person acting with
reasonable care and diligence to control.
   “NUISANCE ACTIVITIES.” Property on which three or more nuisance activities
exist or have occurred during any 60-day period or on which 12 or more nuisance
activities exist or have occurred during any 12-month period, for the following
activities, behaviors, or conduct:
      (1)   Harassment, as defined in KRS 525.070 through 525.080.
      (2)   Public intoxication or alcohol intoxication, as defined in KRS
525.100 or KRS 222.202.
      (3)   Disorderly conduct as defined in KRS 525.055 or KRS 525.060.
      (4)   Murder, manslaughter, or reckless homicide as defined in KRS
507.020, 507.030, 507.040, 507.050.
      (5)   Rape, sodomy, sexual abuse, sexual misconduct, indecent exposure,
or unlawful use of an electronic device to induce a minor to engage in sexual
activities, as defined in KRS 510.010 through 510.155.
      (6)   Assault, menacing, wanton endangerment, terroristic threatening,
criminal abuse, stalking, or disarming a police officer, as defined in KRS
508.010 through 508.160.
      (7)   Burglary or criminal trespass, as defined in KRS 511.010 through
511.090.
      (8)   Criminal mischief, as defined in KRS 512.010 through 512.060.
      (9)   Arson, as defined in KRS 513.010 through 513.040.
      (10)   Theft, as defined in KRS 514.010 through 514.090.
      (11)   Receiving stolen property, as defined in KRS 514.110.
      (12)   Robbery, as defined in KRS 515.010 through 515.030.
      (13)   Prostitution, promoting prostitution, permitting prostitution, or
human trafficking, as defined in KRS 529.010 through 529.110.
      (14)   Endangering the welfare of a minor or unlawful transaction with a
minor as defined in KRS 530.060 through 530.080.
      (15)   Distribution of obscene matter promoting sale of obscenity, or
voyeurism, as defined in KRS 531.010 through 531.110.
      (16)   Sexual exploitation of minors, as defined in KRS 531.300 through
531.370.
      (17)   Drug possession or trafficking, as defined in KRS 218A.010 through
218A.1444.
      (18)   Weapons related offenses, as defined in KRS 527.010 through
527.210.
      (19)   Violations of protection orders, as defined in KRS 403.763.
      (20)   Alcohol related offenses, as defined in Chapter 111 of this code.
      (21)   Noise violations, as defined in Metro Louisville Ordinance §
99.02.
      (22)   Any attempt to commit and/or conspiracy to commit any of the
activities, behaviors of conduct listed in this section.
   “PERMIT.” To suffer, allow, consent to acquiesce by failure to prevent, or
expressly assent or agree to the doing of an act.
   “PERSON.” Any natural person, agent, association, firm, partnership,
corporation, limited liability company or other entity capable of owning,
occupying, or using property in Hurstbourne, Kentucky.
   “PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROPERTY.” Any person who, on the occasion of a
nuisance activity, has entered, patronized, visited, or attempted to enter,
patronize, or visit, or waited to enter, patronize, or visit a property or any
person present on a property. “PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROPERTY” includes,
without limitation, any officer, director, customer, agent, employee, or any
independent contractor of a property, the person in charge, or an owner of a
property.
   “PERSON IN CHARGE.” Any person with actual or constructive possession of a
property, including but not limited to an owner or occupant of property under
his or her ownership or control. When an owner of the property and the occupant
of a property under his or her ownership or control are not the same person,
the “PERSON IN CHARGE” shall include both such persons.
   “PROPERTY.” Any property, including land and that which is affixed,
incidental or appurtenant to land, including but not limited to any business or
residence, parking area, loading area, landscaping, building or structure or
any separate part, unit, or portion thereof, or any business equipment, whether
or not permanent. For “PROPERTY” consisting of more than one unit, “PROPERTY”
may be limited to the unit or the portion of the property on which any nuisance
activity has occurred or is occurring but includes areas on the property used
in common by all units of property including without limitation other
structures erected on the property and areas used for parking, loading, and
landscaping.
   “POLICE OFFICER.” A police officer as defined in KRS 15.420.
   “RESIDENTIAL LANDLORD.” A real property owner of property upon which is
located one or more dwelling units leased or otherwise rented to tenants solely
for residential purposes, or a mobile home park or other permanent or semi-
permanent site at which lots are leased or otherwise rented to tenants for the
parking of a manufactured home, mobile home, or recreational vehicle that is
used solely for residential purposes. “RESIDENTIAL LANDLORD” does not include
the owner of a hotel, motel, or a college or university dormitory.
(Ord. 22-1, passed 2-8-22)
§ 92.67 PROCEDURE; CITY ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   When the Code Enforcement Officer receives information documenting the
existence of activities which qualify as nuisance activities:
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall independently review such report
(s) to determine whether a chronic nuisance property as defined in this chapter
is established by the information. To qualify, all nuisance activities must be
based on either:
         (a)   The personal observation of a police officer, or Code
Enforcement Officer; or
         (b)   A determination by a police officer, or Code Enforcement
Officer, either after an investigation or following a sworn statement of a
person who personally witnesses the alleged incident that the alleged nuisance
activities did in fact occur.
      (2)   Upon a determination that a chronic nuisance property exists, the
Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a notice of violation under the city code
to the person in charge that the property has been determined to be a chronic
nuisance property and request an abatement plan from the person in charge.
      (3)   The notice to the person in charge, shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the property.
         (b)   A statement that the Code Enforcement Officer has determined the
property to be a chronic nuisance property with a concise description of the
nuisance activities leading to this determination.
         (c)   A demand that the person in charge respond within ten days to
the Code Enforcement Officer by either describing the actions the person in
charge intends to take to abate the nuisance activities, (abatement plan), or
indicating good cause as to why the person in charge cannot abate the nuisance
activities.
         (d)   That an agreed abatement plan must be reached with the Code
Enforcement Officer within 30 days from the date of the notice of determination
of chronic nuisance property.
         (e)   That if the nuisance activities are not abated and good cause
for failure to abate is not shown, a citation under the Hurstbourne Code of
Ordinances may be issued.
         (f)   That permitting the existence of a chronic nuisance property is
a violation of this chapter.
         (g)   That the above remedies are in addition to those otherwise
provided by law.
         (h)   The notice may be delivered in person or sent certified mail
with return receipt requested. The notice may be delivered to the property
itself, or to the mailing address of the owner of the property as listed on the
city tax roll, or to any other address that is likely to give the person in
charge notice of the determination of the Code Enforcement Officer.
         (i)   The failure of any person to receive notice shall not invalidate
or otherwise affect the proceedings under this chapter.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer may issue a citation where:
      (1)   The person in charge fails to respond within ten days from the date
of the notice of determination of chronic nuisance property by the Code
Enforcement Officer;
      (2)   No agreeable written abatement plan is reached within 30 days from
the notice of determination of chronic nuisance property by the Code
Enforcement Officer and the person in charge fails to establish one of the
affirmative defenses provided in this chapter;
      (3)   The person in charge fails to abate the nuisance activities from
the property as required by the agreed abatement plan; or
      (4)   The person in charge fails to comply continuously with all
conditions of the written abatement plan for a period of one year.
   (C)   When the person in charge includes both a person with actual or
constructive possession of the property and a legal owner of the property, both
people must agree to any proposed abatement plan within the time allotted under
this chapter. Failure of both to agree to a proposed abatement plan shall
result in a finding by the Code Enforcement Officer that the abatement plan is
not agreeable.
   (D)   Failure to respond, failure to abate the nuisance activities, or
failure to propose an abatement plan shall be prima facie evidence of lack of
cooperativeness of the person in charge. Failure to execute or comply with any
abatement plan shall be prima facie evidence of lack of good faith in
mitigation or correcting the situation.
   (E)   When a person in charge makes a response to the Code Enforcement
Officer as required in this chapter, conduct or statements made in connection
with the response do not constitute an admission that any nuisance activities
have occurred or are occurring. This division does not require exclusion of any
evidence that is otherwise admissible or offered for any other purpose.
   (F)   Residential landlord affirmative defense. A residential landlord has
an absolute defense to a charge under this section if they establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that the basis for the charge is the actions or
omissions of their tenant(s) and the residential landlord establishes all of
the following:
      (1)   That the residential landlord undertakes a reasonably appropriate
screening process for prospective tenants including diligence into the criminal
background of prospective tenants, which shall include, at a minimum, an online
search and inquiry with the tenant into their criminal background;
      (2)   That the residential landlord include language in their leases with
tenants that provides that violations of federal, state, or local laws by
tenants or their guests is grounds for eviction with 30 days or less notice;
and
      (3)   That the residential landlord, upon written notice by the city that
a nuisance activity has occurred on their property within the prior 30 days,
commences an eviction action against the tenant whose action or omission forms
the basis of a charge, and diligently prosecutes that action to completion,
irrespective of any ultimate ruling by a court on the merits of that action. A
residential landlord shall not be responsible for prosecuting a forcible entry
and detainer action against the tenant or their guests whose action or omission
forms the basis of the charge if the city fails to give the notice provided in
this section.
   (G)   Good cause affirmative defense. Any person charged under this section
has an absolute defense to a charge under this section if they establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that:
      (1)   The person charged has taken all appropriate actions to deter and
prevent the nuisance activity that forms the basis of the charge on their
property;
      (2)   The nuisance activity that forms the basis of the charge was not
the result of the actions or omissions of person charged, their authorized
guests or any other person residing in their household; and
      (3)   The nuisance activity that forms the basis of the charge was not
permitted by the person charged.
(Ord. 22-1, passed 2-8-22)
§ 92.68 PROCEDURE; RESIDENT ENFORCEMENT.
   Hurstbourne residents, affected by an alleged chronic nuisance property, may
elect to provide a sworn complaint to the Code Enforcement Officer which may be
used in the enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 22-1, passed 2-8-22)
§ 92.69 COMMENCEMENT OF ACTIONS; REMEDIES; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   In the event a citation is issued for a chronic nuisance property, the
person in charge shall have those rights and shall otherwise be subject to the
procedures and provisions set forth in Chapter 40 of this code relating to the
Code Enforcement Board. The civil fine for non-compliance shall be as follows:
      (1)   Fine in an amount no less than $100 per day and no more than $500
per day. Each day of non-compliance will constitute the imposition of per day
fine for each day’s violation, up to the following maximums. On first
violation, the maximum total fine is $1,000. On a second violation that occurs
within 12 months of the first violation, the maximum total fine for each person
cited is $3,000. On a third violation that occurs within 12 months of the first
violation, the maximum total fine shall be $5,000.
   (B)   In addition, whenever the Code Enforcement Officer or the Code
Enforcement Board determines that a chronic nuisance exists, the Code
Enforcement Officer or the Code Enforcement Board may forward such
determination to the City Commission. Based on such determination, the City
Commission may suspend or revoke the business license of any person conducting
any business upon the property where the chronic nuisance exists.
(Ord. 22-1, passed 2-8-22)
§ 92.70 SUMMARY CLOSURE.
   The city, through its City Attorney, may also initiate condemnation
procedures as allowed by Kentucky Revised Statutes. Such an action shall be
based on evidence showing that nuisance activities exist or have occurred on
the property and that action is necessary to avoid a threat to public welfare
and safety. Proceedings to obtain an order of condemnation shall be governed by
the provisions of applicable Kentucky law.
(Ord. 22-1, passed 2-8-22)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter for which
no other penalty is specifically provided shall be fined not less than $20 nor
more than $500.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of §§
92.16 through
92.18 or failure to comply with any of the requirements therein shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates §§
92.16 through
92.18 or fails to comply with any of the requirements therein shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100, or
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 50 days, or both such fine and
imprisonment for each day's violation. Each day during which such violation
continues shall be deemed a separate offense for which a separate fine may be
imposed. No additional notice other than the notice for the original offense
shall be required to convict a person for violations resulting from a
continuation of such offense.
   (C)   Where Kentucky Revised Statutes mandates a fine higher than that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in Kentucky Revised Statutes shall apply.
   (D)   Any continuing violation of this code of ordinances shall be
considered a separate and distinct offense for each day on which a violation
occurs or continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed therefor.
   (E)   Any violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to fines,
penalties, and forfeitures that may be imposed by law, and the city may secure
injunctions and abatement orders, when appropriate, to insure compliance with
its ordinances as authorized by KRS 83A.065.
   (F)   Any violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty in an amount equal to two times the minimum fine prescribed in the
ordinance violated, with a minimum civil penalty of $50 for each violation.
   (G)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty
within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the ordinance violation.
As used herein "cited" shall mean notified of the violation and the penalty in
writing by an elected or appointed official of the city or the official
attorney for the city. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative to or in
conjunction with the criminal penalties authorized herein.
   (H)   Any city nuisance ordinance may be enforced by any one, all, or a
combination of the remedies authorized by this section or the ordinance
violated.
   (I)   Where any ordinance provides that each day a violation of the
ordinance continues shall be a separate and distinct offense, a separate civil
penalty may be imposed for each such day. No additional notice other than the
notice for the original offense shall be required to impose these civil
penalties for violations resulting from a continuation of such offense.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 12-16-94; Am. Ord. 96-03, passed 9-23-96)
   (J)   Criminal or civil penalty for §§
92.30 through
92.36. Pursuant to the city's prosecutorial discretion, the city may enforce
violations of the provisions of §§
92.30 through
92.36 as criminal, civil or abatement actions.
      (1)   Misdemeanor. Any person who is violating any of the provisions of
§§
92.30 through
92.36 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and every day, during which any
such offense is committed, continued or allowed shall be a separate offense.
      (2)   Each and every offense under §§
92.30 through
92.36 is punishable by:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding $100.00 for the first offense;
         (b)   A fine not exceeding $500.00 for the second offense of the same
or similar provision within one year period; or,
         (c)   A fine no less than $1,000.00 for each additional offense, after
the second, of the same or similar provision of §§
92.30 through
92.36 within a one year period of the first offense.
      (3)   Penalty for misdemeanor. Any person found guilty of a misdemeanor
under §§
92.30 through
92.36 shall be subject to imprisonment for a period of not exceeding six
months; or, by both fine and imprisonment.
      (4) Civil Penalties. Any person who intentionally, accidentally, or
negligently violates any provision of §§
92.30 through
92.36 may be civilly liable to the city in the sum of not less than $100.00 but
not to exceed $1,000.00 per day for each day in which such offence occurs or
continues. The city may petition the Jefferson District Court to impose, assess
and recover such sums.
(Ord. 09-06, passed 8-11-09)
   (K)   Fees and penalties for §§
92.50 through
92.58.
      (1)   Criminal. Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity violating
§§
92.50 through
92.58 , or any provision thereof, shall be subject to a civil fine of not less
than $100.00 for each such violation, and each day on which a violation exists
or occurs shall be deemed a separate violation for which a separate fine may be
accessed. A separate fine shall apply to each day the portable storage
container remains on the property after the expiration of the permit.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
92.50 through
92.58 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to two
times the minimum fine prescribed in §§
92.50 through
92.58.
         (b)   The civil penally provided herein may be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the
penalty within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the ordinance
violation. As used herein "cited" shall mean notified of the violation and the
penalty by an elected or appointed official or the official attorney for the
city. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative to or in conjunction with
the criminal penalties authorized herein.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 7-10-07)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.04   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.05   Destruction of fireworks
   
93.06   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sales
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
   
93.22   Adoption of Kentucky Standards of Safety
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, “FIREWORKS” means any composition
or device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
“consumer fireworks” as defined in division (B) or “display” fireworks as
defined in division (D) and as set forth in the U.S. Department of
Transportation's (DOT) hazardous materials regulations.
      (1)   Exception number 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, “CONSUMER FIREWORKS” means
fireworks that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion, and comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product
Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of
these devices are limited as enumerated in this chapter. Some small devices
designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
Consumer fireworks are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts 1500 and 1507, are classified as
Division 1.4G explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and include
the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least 1/2 inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
the total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term “mine” refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term “shell” refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A
mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The term “cake” refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quality of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE, or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed 1 3/4 inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift charge in any
shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting
charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical
composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the shells in
the kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams.
   The user lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with
the fusing extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is
then reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall
be capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of
the tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all
warning label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as “NOVELTIES” and “TRICK
NOISEMAKERS” and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S.
Department of Transportation and their transportation, storage, retail sale,
possession, sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, “DISPLAY FIREWORKS” means
pyrotechnic devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes,
but is not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130
milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40
grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the
limits for classification as consumer fireworks. Display fireworks are defined
by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts. 1500 and
1507, and are classified as Class B explosives by the U.S. Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)    Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) are not legal for retail sale but
are legal under permits granted pursuant to §
93.02 for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may be
sold at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (3)   “COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR” shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A “competent display operator” is also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (1) shall be issued only to a competent
display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This complement display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NEPA) 1123 Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days
in advance of the date of the display. After this privilege shall have been
granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the display
shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this subsection
shall be transferable. For the purpose of this section, “public display of
fireworks” shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic
materials before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this division.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to a person holding a display permit as
outlined in subsection (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present the
permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale, and use in emergency situations, of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-
partnership, non-profit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for
sale, selling at retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using
consumer fireworks as defined in KRS 227.702 as permitted pursuant to KRS
227.715.
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the City Commission or other
appropriate city official or the State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount
if in their judgment the situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of
all damages which may be caused thereby either to a person or to property by
reason of the permitted display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his
agents, employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.05 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the state fire marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or "Display"
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal's intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal's
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal's intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (A) shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
§ 93.06 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE
   (A)   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702 may be offered for sale,
sold at retail, or kept with the intent to sell, only if the requirements of
this section are met.
   (B)   Any person firm, co-partnership, non-profit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702(1) shall register annually
with the State Fire Marshal's office in accordance with KRS 227.715, and
display its registration certificate in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted addition);
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
   (E)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility, or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under KRS 227.715 unless the individual is supervised by a parent or
guardian.
(KRS 227.715 (7) through (9)) Penalty, see §
93.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the City Commission or
other authorized city official. The City Commission or other authorized city
official, before granting such permit may require the applicant to provide a
bond to indemnify the city and all other persons against injury or damages
which might result from the proposed blasting.
   Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
   Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY STANDARDS OF SAFETY.
   (A)   Adoption. The Kentucky Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention Code) as
promulgated in 815 KAR 10:060 (and any further amendments thereto) by the
Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Building, and Construction on the
advice and recommendation of the State Fire Marshal, is hereby adopted in full
by the City of Hurstbourne, Jefferson County, of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
Copies of the code book are available through the Department of Housing,
Building, and Construction, 1047 US 127 South, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601.
   (B)   Designated enforcement officer. The Fire Chief of the Lyndon Fire
Protection District, or the Fire Chief’s designated representative is the local
enforcement agent for the Standards of Safety as adopted by the City of
Hurstbourne.
   (C)   Permits, inspections and fees. The requirements for permits,
inspections and fees shall be as provided for pursuant to 815 KAR 10:060,
Kentucky Standards of Safety and stipulated in the attached schedule. Failure
to pay fees as provided shall be considered a violation in itself as allowed
under the Standards of Safety. Municipal, state and federal government entities
shall be exempt for all fees.
   (D)   Appeal process. All final decisions of the fire code official having
jurisdiction, shall be appealable to Jefferson County Court with appropriate
jurisdiction within 30 days thereafter.
(Ord. 11-09, passed 8-23-11)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both. (KRS 227.990 (4))
   (B)   Each violation of §
93.22 constitutes a Class B misdemeanor carrying a penalty not to exceed 90
days imprisonment and/or $250.00 in fines. Each day shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 11-09, passed 8-23-11)
   (C)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
   Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
   Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
   Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
   Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
   Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
         
110.   ADVERTISING; DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS
         
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
112.   BUSINESS LICENSING
         
113.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
         
114.   NSURANCE COMPANIES
         
115.   CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
         
116.   BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
         
117.   HOME OCCUPATIONS
         
118. HOTELS, MOTELS, AND SIMILAR BUSINESSES
         
119. CANNABIS BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: ADVERTISING; DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Distributors of handbills to obtain licenses
   
110.03   City Clerk/City Administrative Officer to be notified of distribution
   
110.04   Hours when distribution prohibited
   
110.05   Handbills not to be distributed to occupants of motor vehicles
   
110.06   Handbills not to be left on premises where posted notice prohibits
them
   
110.07   Handbills to be secured
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "COMMERCIAL HANDBILL." Any written, copied, reproduced, or printed paper,
pamphlet, booklet, circular, notice, or other literature which contains
advertisements or offers for sale or trade of any service, commodity,
merchandise, or other thing, except that newspapers of general circulation
published on a regular basis and sold to the general public shall not
constitute a "commercial handbill" for purposes of this chapter, nor shall
items carried and delivered by the United States Postal Service.
   "NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL." Any written, copied, reproduced, or printed paper,
pamphlet, booklet, circular, notice, or other literature which is not carried
and delivered by the United States Postal Service, a newspaper, or a commercial
handbill.
§ 110.02 DISTRIBUTORS OF HANDBILLS TO OBTAIN LICENSES.
   All persons who distribute commercial handbills shall only do so after
obtaining all necessary state, local, and city licenses as may be provided by
ordinance or law.
   Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 CITY CLERK/CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER TO BE NOTIFIED OF DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   No person shall distribute commercial or noncommercial handbills
within the city limits without first notifying the City Clerk/City
Administrative Officer in writing at least 24 hours in advance of any such
distribution. The notice required hereunder shall state the name of the persons
causing such material to be distributed, his address, the approximate date and
times of such distribution, and in the event such distribution is of a
commercial handbill, a statement that all necessary licenses and permits have
been obtained.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any of the above, any person who distributes
commercial or non-commercial handbills within the city on a regular basis may
give the notice required in division (A) above once each year, provided all
other information and requirements of division (A) are met. For purposes of
this division, distribution on a regular basis shall mean distribution on the
same day of the week at approximately the same time at least once every other
week.
   Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 HOURS WHEN DISTRIBUTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall distribute commercial or noncommercial handbills within the
city limits between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any day of the
week.
   Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 HANDBILLS NOT TO BE DISTRIBUTED TO OCCUPANTS OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Commercial and noncommercial handbills shall not be distributed to occupants
of motor vehicles on any federal, state, or city street within the city limits
while such vehicles are moving, nor in any manner which would cause a breach of
the peace or create a danger to the life or safety of any individual or
property.
   Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 HANDBILLS NOT BE LEFT ON PREMISES WHERE POSTED NOTICE PROHIBITS THEM.
   No commercial or noncommercial handbills shall be left, deposited, attached,
or delivered to any premises at which is clearly posted a notice or sign
containing the words: "No Trespassing", "Post No Bills", "No Peddlers", or any
other similar notice indicating the occupants do not want handbills left upon
the premises.
   Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 HANDBILLS TO BE SECURED.
   No commercial or noncommercial handbill shall be left, deposited, attached,
or delivered to any premises unless it is placed or deposited in such a manner
as to secure or prevent it from being blown or drifted about such premises or
any public place. United States mail boxes shall not be used for such purposes
if prohibited by Federal postal law or regulation.
   Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Adoption of state alcoholic beverage control law
   
111.02   Published notice of application
   
111.03   Delinquent taxes; license withheld
   
111.04   Forfeitures
   
111.05   Compliance with other ordinances and regulations
   
111.06   Conditions governing licenses
   
111.07   Issuance of license; receipt of fees
   
111.08   Revocation or suspension of license
   
111.09   Transfer of license or business
   
111.10   Spirits; hours of sale
   
111.11   Beer; hours of sale
   
111.12   Reserved
   
111.13   Minors; prohibitions governing
   
111.14   Display of printed warning
   
111.15   Treating prohibited
   
111.16   Premises; approval of by Health Department and Fire Prevention
   
111.17   Books and records
   
111.18   Spirits outside locked department; discovery of
   
111.19   Operation without a license
   
111.20   Licensee to notify employee that sales of alcohol to minors
prohibited; acknowledgment
   
111.21   Licensee to notify employee that proof of age required
   
111.22   Failure to pay fines
   
111.23   Severability
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 ADOPTION OF STATE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL LAW.
   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Laws and Administrative
Regulations of the Commonwealth of Kentucky (KRS Chapters 241, 243, and 244),
and all amendments and supplements thereto, are adopted as far as applicable as
a portion of this chapter except as otherwise lawfully provided herein. The
City of Hurstbourne Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) Administrator shall
administer all Alcoholic Beverage Control Ordinances and regulations of the
city and all statutes of the Commonwealth of Kentucky relating thereto and the
regulations of the Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.02 PUBLISHED NOTICE OF APPLICATION.
   The City ABC Administrator shall not approve any application for an original
license to sell alcoholic beverages until the applicant has caused to be
published a concise advertisement in accordance with the provisions of KRS
243.360.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.03 DELINQUENT TAXES; LICENSE WITHHELD.
   No license to sell alcoholic beverages shall be granted to any person who is
delinquent in the payment of any taxes due to the city at the time of issuing
the license. Nor shall any license be granted to sell on any premises or
property, owned and occupied by the licensee, on which there are any delinquent
taxes or liens due to the city government. Where the property or premises on
which a license to sell is sought, is rented or occupied by the applicant for a
license but is owned by another, no license shall be granted if the taxes or
liens of the city due on the property or premises have not been paid. In such
cases, the ABC Administrator may, in his or her discretion, issue a license to
sell after receiving from the city a written statement to the effect that the
applicant for the license and the owner of the property or premises on which
the license is sought have made arrangements with the city, satisfactory to it,
for taking care of the indebtedness represented by the unpaid and delinquent
taxes or liens referred to above.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.04 FORFEITURES.
   If any license issued under this chapter is revoked or cancelled for any
reason by the ABC Administrator, the licensee shall forfeit any and all claims,
which the licensee might otherwise have had to any portion of the license fee
paid by the licensee on the issuing of the license.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.05 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS.
   No license shall be issued or renewed to any person for selling at retail or
wholesale any alcoholic beverages at any premises or location where such
business or associated activities are prohibited under, or are in violation or
conflict with any regulation, including but not limited to signs, fire
prevention and/or the zoning code and regulations of the city and any ordinance
supplementary or amendatory to it, and any license issued in violation of this
section shall be void. However, any person who held, relative to zoning and
use, a Louisville Metro license for, and actually carried on thereunder, this
business during or within the last month of the preceding license period may be
granted a similar license by the City of Hurstbourne ABC Administrator, in the
exercise of his or her sound discretion, for the same business at the same
premises or location. Any zoning restrictions that may apply shall be noted on
the license at the time of issuance.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.06 CONDITIONS GOVERNING LICENSES.
   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be granted subject to the
following conditions, and all other conditions of other ordinances and
regulations of the city applicable thereto and all rules and regulations duly
adopted by the ABC Administrator.
   (A)   Each licensed premises shall at all times be conducted in an orderly
manner and no disorderly, riotous, or indecent conduct shall be allowed at any
time on any licensed premises and no nuisance suffered, permitted or maintained
thereon.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this chapter to sell, keep
or permit to be sold, or kept on the licensed premises any controlled
substances as defined in KRS Chapter 218A. In addition to other penalties set
out in this chapter for the violation of this section the ABC Administrator
shall also have the authority to revoke the license issued to the premises.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or any employee of any
licensee, to permit or allow acts of prostitution, gambling or the possession
of any gambling device on the licensed premises.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or employee of any licensee, to
allow the premises to become overcrowded or violate any ordinance or regulation
of the Fire Prevention or Fire Marshall offices.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.07 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; RECEIPT OF FEES.
   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved and issued by the
City ABC Administrator and shall be those fees authorized under KRS 243.070,
set out below and as amended by Senate Bill 13. All license fees from licenses
issued under this chapter shall be collected by the City ABC Administrator.
License Fee
License                                                                 Fee
Distiller’s license, per annum                                        $500
Rectifier’s license, per annum                                        $3,000
Wholesaler’s distilled spirit and wine license, per annum             $3,000
Quota retail package license, per annum                                 $1,200
Quota retail drink license, per annum                                   $1,600
Special temporary license, per event                                    $266.66
Nonquota Type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine, $2,000
and malt beverages),per annum
Nonquota Type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine, $1,800
and malt beverages), per annum
Nonquota Type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine, $300
and malt beverages), per annum
Distilled spirits and wine special temporary auction license, per event $200
Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum                          $300
Extended hours supplemental license, per annum                          $2,000
Caterer’s license, per annum                                          $800
Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per annum             $1,000
Malt Beverage Licenses as follows:                                      $500
   Brewer’s License, per annum                                     $500
   Microbrewery License, per annum                                   $400
   Malt Beverage Distributor’s License, per annum                  $200
   Nonquota Retail Malt Beverage Package License, per annum          $200
   Nonquota Type 4 Retail Malt Beverage Drink License, per annum     $100
   Malt Beverage Brew-On-Premises License, per annum
Limited restaurant license (includes distilled spirits, wine, and malt  $1,800
beverages), per annum
Limited golf course license (includes distilled spirits, wine, and malt $1,800
beverages), per annum
 
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 10-8-13)
§ 111.08 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or any amendment
thereof, by a duly authorized agent or employee of a licensee shall constitute
a violation by the licensee. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to
make a written report to the ABC Administrator of any violation of this chapter
or any amendment thereof, or of any rules or regulations of the ABC
Administrator, observed by any member of the police. Whenever any licensee
shall violate any provision of this chapter or any ordinance relating to the
subject of alcoholic beverage control or any of the rules or regulations of the
ABC Administrator, or any of the provisions of the alcoholic beverage control
laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, or any amendments or supplements thereto,
or any of the rules and regulations adopted by the Kentucky State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board, or any acts of Congress, or rule or regulation of any
federal board, agency or commission relative to the regulation and taxation of
alcoholic beverages, proceedings for the revocation of the license shall be
instituted in the manner and under the procedure established by the Kentucky
State Alcoholic Beverage Control Law.
   (B)   For a violation of any section of this chapter or any amendment
thereof or of any rule or regulation of the ABC Administrator, or of any rule
or regulation of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, or any acts of
Congress or rule or regulation of any federal board, agency or commission
relative to the regulation and taxation of alcoholic beverages, or on
conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction for any such violation, the ABC
Administrator is authorized and empowered to order the revocation or suspension
of any license issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.09 TRANSFER OF LICENSE OR BUSINESS.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned by the
holder, except as provided in the Alcoholic Beverage Control Laws of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, KRS 243.630 and per approval of the City ABC
Administrator.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.10 SPIRITS; HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   Retail package distilled spirits and wine. The lawful operating hours
for a licensee to sell, permit to be sold, or deliver distilled spirits or wine
are as follows:
      (1)   Between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. on Monday through
Saturday;
      (2)   Between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 11:59 p.m. on Sunday; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. on any day of the
week if the licensee has an extended hour supplemental license.
   (B)   Retail drink distilled spirits and wine. The lawful operating hours
for a license to sell, serve, or permit the consumption of distilled spirits or
wine are as follows:
      (1)   Between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. on Monday through
Saturday;
      (2)   Between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 11:59 p.m. on Sunday, unless the
licensee has a special Sunday retail drink license that allows operating hours
to begin at 10:00 a.m. To be eligible for the special Sunday retail drink
license, the licensee much receive at least 50% of its gross receipts from the
sale of food or have one of the following licenses set forth in Kentucky
Revised Statute: qualified historic site license (KRS 243.042), nonquota type 1
(KRS 243.082, or nonquota type 2 (KRS 243.084); and
      (3)   Between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 4:00 a.m. on any day of the week
if the licensee has an extended hour supplemental license.
   (C)   Derby exception. Notwithstanding subsections (A) and (B), retail drink
and retail package licensees may sell, serve, deliver, permit to be sold, or
permit the consumption of distilled spirits and wine on the first Saturday of
May between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 17-02, passed - - )
§ 111.11 BEER; HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   Retail malt beverage package. The lawful operating hours for a
licensee to sell, permit to be sold, or deliver malt beverages are as follows:
      (1)   Between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. on Monday through
Saturday;
      (2)   Between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 11:59 p.m. on Sunday; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. on any day of the
week if the licensee has an extended hour supplemental license.
   (B)   Retail malt beverage drink. The lawful operating hours for a licensee
to sell, serve or permit the consumption of malt beverages are as follows:
      (1)   Between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. on Monday through
Saturday;
      (2)   Between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 11:59 p.m. on Sunday, unless the
licensee has a special Sunday Malt beverages retail drink license that allows
operating hours to begin at 10 a.m. To be eligible for the special Sunday malt
beverages retail drink license, the licensee must receive at least 50% of its
gross receipts from the sale of food or have one of the following licenses set
forth in Kentucky Revised Statute: qualified historic site license (KRS
243.042), nonquota type 1 (KRS 243.082, or nonquota type 2 (KRS 243.084).
      (3)   Between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 4:00 a.m. on any day of the week
if the licensee has an extended hour supplemental license.
   (C)   Derby exception. Notwithstanding subsections (A) and (B), retail drink
and retail package licensees may sell, serve, deliver, permit to be sold, or
permit the consumption of distilled spirits and wine on the first Saturday of
May between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 17-02, passed - - )
§ 111.12 RESERVED.
§ 111.13 MINORS; PROHIBITIONS GOVERNING.
   The provisions of KRS Chapter 244 and KAR Chapter 804 involving prohibitions
governing minors shall apply to licensees and licensed premises within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.14 DISPLAY OF PRINTED WARNING.
   The provisions of KRS 244.083 requiring the display of printed warnings
shall apply to licensees and licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the
city.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.15 TREATING PROHIBITED.
   The provisions of KRS 244.050 prohibiting treating shall apply to licensees
and licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.16 PREMISES; APPROVAL OF BY HEALTH DEPARTMENT AND FIRE PREVENTION.
   Upon the initial application for an alcoholic beverage license, the ABC
Administrator shall not grant the license under this chapter to any applicant
until the applicant and the applicant's place of business have been approved by
the Board of Health and the Fire Prevention Bureau. Upon renewal of an
alcoholic beverage license, the requirement of approval by the Board of Health
and Fire Prevention Bureau before issuance will be waived if the applicant's
business has been approved by the Board of Health and Fire Prevention Bureau
during the licensing period. Premises being licensed for the retail sales of
package distilled spirits and wine may be exempted from the Board of Health
approval unless otherwise required by the Board of Health.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.17 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   The provisions of KRS 244.150 and 804 KAR 4:100 requiring the retention of
books and records shall apply to licensees and licensed premises within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.18 SPIRITS OUTSIDE LOCKED DEPARTMENT; DISCOVERY OF.
   The provisions of KRS Chapter 44 and KAR Chapter 7 pertaining to the
discovery of spirits outside a locked department shall apply to licensees and
licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.19 OPERATION WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   The provisions of KRS 243.020 pertaining to licensing shall apply to
licensees and licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the City of
Hurstbourne.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.20 LICENSEE TO NOTIFY EMPLOYEE THAT SALES OF ALCOHOL TO MINORS
PROHIBITED; ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
   (A)   Every licensee selling alcoholic beverages by retail sales shall
notify each individual employed in retail sales that the sale of alcoholic
beverages to any person under the age of 21 years is prohibited.
   (B)   A notice to employees shall be provided before the employee commences
work as a retail sales clerk. The employee shall signify receipt of the notice
required by this section by signing a form that states as follows: I understand
that under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky it is illegal to sell
alcoholic beverages to persons under the age of 21 years.
   (C)   The licensee shall maintain the signed acknowledgment required in
division (B) in a place and manner so as to be easily accessible to any police
officer of the city or the ABC Administrator or his or her employees conducting
an inspection of the retail outlet for purposes of monitoring compliance in
limiting the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages to persons under the
age of 21 years.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.21 LICENSEE TO NOTIFY EMPLOYEE THAT PROOF OF AGE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every licensee selling alcoholic beverages by retail sales shall
notify each employee employed in retail sales that proof of age is required
from a prospective buyer if it is reasonable to believe that the prospective
buyer is under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   The following unaltered written instruments are the only acceptable
types of identification:
      (1)   An unexpired driver's license issued by any state, provided such
license contains a picture of the person;
      (2)   An official identification card issued by any state, provided such
identification includes a picture of the person;
      (3)   A United States Armed Forces identification card, provided such
identification includes a picture of the person;
      (4)   An unexpired passport issued by a government and which contains a
picture of the person and date of birth.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.22 FAILURE TO PAY FINES.
   The failure of any person or entity to pay any fine imposed upon such person
or entity by the ABC Administrator or hearing officer for violations of Chapter
111 within 30 days of its imposition shall be grounds for the issuance of an
order by the ABC Administrator revoking the eligibility for employment of that
person by licensees, or revoking the license issued by the ABC Administrator
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.23 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter as now or later amended or its application
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalties for violations of this chapter that pertain to alcoholic
beverage laws that are set forth in KRS Chapters 241 through 244 shall be the
same as provided by such chapters.
   (B)   Any person under the age of 18 years who violates any provisions of
Chapter 111 shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedure prescribed by
statute for minors charged with the commission of a public offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of
Chapter 111 shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $1,000, imprisoned
not more than 50 days, or both.
   (D)   The fines imposed under divisions (A) through (C) shall be in addition
to and independent of any action which may be taken by the City of Hurstbourne
Alcoholic Beverage Administrator, in accordance with the provisions of the
State of Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control laws and administrative rules and
regulations.
   (E)   In addition to any criminal penalties that may be prescribed, any
person or entity that violates the provisions of
Chapter 111 shall appear before the City of Hurstbourne ABC Administrator or
the City of Hurstbourne Alcoholic Beverage Control Board hearing officer for a
civil hearing, and is subject to a civil penalty of not less than $200 and not
more than $500 for each violation if convicted. This section shall not apply to
obligations imposed upon the City of Hurstbourne ABC Administrator or his or
her employees under those sections.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 2-28-12)
CHAPTER 112: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Rental
   
112.04   Application
   
112.05   Standards for issuance
   
112.06   Date and duration of license
   
112.07   License not transferrable
   
112.08   License certificate to be displayedAppeal and review
   
112.09   Revocation or suspension
   
112.10   Appeal and review
   
112.11   Exemptions
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning.
   “BUSINESS.” Carrying on, transacting or exercising, for gain or economic
benefit, either directly or indirectly enterprise, trade, activity, profession,
or undertaking, of any nature, including the collection of rent from real
property within City (except for short term rental as defined herein),
conducted by an individual, partnership, firm, joint venture, association,
corporation or any other entity; but shall not include the usual activities of
boards of trade, chambers of commerce, trade associations or unions, community
chest funds or foundations, corporations or associations organized and operated
exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, literary, educational or
civic purposes, or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals, or
clubs or fraternal organizations operated exclusively for social, literary,
educational or fraternal purposes; nor shall it include Home Occupations, which
are separately regulated under
Chapter 117  of the City of Hurstbourne Codified Ordinances.
   “PERSON.” Any natural person, partnership, firm, joint venture, fiduciary,
association or corporation. Whenever PERSON is used in any clause prescribing
and imposing a penalty in the nature of a fine, the work, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise shall mean the partners
or members thereof and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   “RECEIPTS.” Money or other property of value.
   “SHORT TERM RENTAL.” A dwelling unit that is rented, leased or otherwise
assigned for a tenancy for less than 30 consecutive days duration, where no
meals are served. This term does not include hotels or motel rooms, extended
stay lodging facilities, bed and breakfast inns or boards and lodging house
rooms.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 2-26-13; Am. Ord. 17-5, passed 10-10-17)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the city without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the City Clerk or other duly authorized issuing authority. The fee for a
license shall be $75.00. No person shall rent, operate, occupy or own any
dwelling used for short term rental and no business license shall be issued for
short term rental.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 6-14-11; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 2-26-13; Am. Ord. 17-5,
passed 10-10-17)
§ 112.03 RENTAL.
   Registration of rental dwellings: Application shall include:
   (A)   The address of the rental dwelling. The number of rental dwelling
units.
   (B)   The name, residence address, business address, business phone number
and personal phone number of the owner and/or the local agent, if applicable.
The address where the owner and/or the local agent, if applicable, will accept
notices or orders from the city. Designation of local agent: If the owner of a
rental dwelling, or a responsible member or officer of the owner, does not
reside within 60 miles of the city, the owner shall designate a responsible
local agent who shall be legally responsible for operating such rental dwelling
in compliance with this chapter, this code of ordinances, and other applicable
laws or regulations. All official notices may be served on the responsible
local agent, and any notice so served shall be deemed to have been served upon
the owner of record.
   (C)   Verification that all state and city taxes levied and assessed against
the rental dwelling that are due and payable at the time of the filing of the
application have been paid. Delinquencies on such taxes may result in the
denial of an application for registration or re-registration under this
section.
   (D)   Inaccurate or incomplete registration information: it shall be a
violation of this chapter for an owner to provide inaccurate information for
the registration or re-registration of rental dwellings or to fail to provide
information required by the application.
   (E)   All rental property must be kept in compliance with the City of
Hurstbourne Code of Ordinances, as well as Metro Louisville Ordinances, as a
condition of operating a rental property in the City of Hurstbourne. Each
rental dwelling shall provide measures acceptable to the city to prevent any
excessive noise at any property line. Each rental dwelling shall provide
measures acceptable to the City to prevent violations of the city’s parking
ordinance by Tenants of the rental unit.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 2-26-13; Am. Ord. 17-5, passed 10-10-17)
§ 112.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City of Hurstbourne in writing upon forms to be
furnished by the city and shall contain:
      (1)   Name of applicant and of each officer, partner, or business
associate;
      (2)   Parent company, corporation name (if different than applicant
name);
      (3)   Present occupation and local site address of business;
      (4)   Primary corporate/business address;
      (5)   Nature or type of intended business or enterprise;
      (6)   Period of time for which license is desired;
      (7)   Description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor;
      (8)   Such other information concerning applicant and business as may be
reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful knowingly to make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 6-14-11; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 2-26-13; Am. Ord. 17-5,
passed 10-10-17)
§ 112.05 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or possesses any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has been found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have
committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 6-14-11; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 2-26-13; Am. Ord. 17-5,
passed 10-10-17)
§ 112.06 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year. (KRS 92.310)
(Ord. 11-07, passed 6-14-11; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 2-26-13; Am. Ord. 17-5,
passed 10-10-17)
§ 112.07 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERRABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 6-14-11; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 2-26-13; Am. Ord. 17-5,
passed 10-10-17)
§ 112.08 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises, the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 6-14-11; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 2-26-13; Am. Ord. 17-5,
passed 10-10-17)
§ 112.09 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked by the legislative body at any time for
conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time of issuance,
would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any misrepresentation of a
material fact in the application discovered after issuance of the license; for
violation of any provision of this chapter or other law or ordinance relating
to the operation of the business or enterprise for which the license has been
issued; or upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state, or municipal
law or ordinance involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The revocation shall become effective upon notice served upon the
licensee or posted upon the premises affected.
   (C)   As a preliminary to revocation, the legislative body may issue an
order suspending the license, which shall become effective immediately upon
service of written notice to the licensee. This notice shall specify the reason
for suspension, and may provide conditions under which reinstatement of the
license may be obtained. Upon compliance with these conditions within the time
specified, the license may be restored.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 6-14-11; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 2-26-13; Am. Ord. 17-5,
passed 10-10-17)
§ 112.10 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his or her license
has been revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee as the case may be,
shall within three business days have the right to appeal to the legislative
body from the denial, revocation, or suspension. Notice of appeal shall be
filed in writing with the City Clerk who shall fix the time and place for a
hearing which shall be held not later than one week thereafter. The City Clerk
shall notify the Mayor and all members of the legislative body of the time and
place of the hearing not less than 24 hours in advance thereof. A majority of
the legislative body members shall constitute a quorum to hear the appeal. The
appellant may appear and be heard in person or by counsel. If, after hearing, a
majority of the members of the legislative body present at the meeting declare
in favor of the applicant, the license shall be issued or fully reinstated as
the case may be; otherwise the order appealed from shall become final.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 6-14-11; Am. Ord. 17-5, passed 10-10-17)
§ 112.11 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing and/or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 6-14-11; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 2-26-13; Am. Ord. 17-5,
passed 10-10-17)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined $500. Each day of non-compliance after the
violation notice is issued shall constitute an additional violation, up to the
following maximums. On first violation, the maximum total fine for each person
cited is $2,500. On second violation, the maximum total fine for each person
cited is $5,000. On third violation, the maximum total fine for each person
cited is $10,000.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 6-14-11; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 2-26-13; Am. Ord. 17-5,
passed 10-10-17)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License requirement
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Standards for issuance
   
113.05   Revocation procedure
   
113.06   Standards for revocation
   
113.07   Appeal procedure
   
113.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "BUSINESS." The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   "GOODS." Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   "ITINERANT MERCHANT." Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   "PEDDLER."
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
   A person who is a peddler is not an itinerant merchant.
   "SOLICITOR." Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future.
   A person who is a solicitor is not a peddler.
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Commission by ordinance.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
   Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk/City Administrative Officer. This application
shall be signed by the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a
partnership, or by the president if a corporation. The applicant may be
requested to provide information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a) The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a) The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant's business;
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
   Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character
   will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 113.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk/City Administrative Officer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the
standards in §
113.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 113.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 113.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
113.04 or
113.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Commission. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the City Commission, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Commission shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
113.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Commission after the hearing shall be final.
§ 113.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk/City Administrative Officer shall issue a license to
each peddler or solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall
contain the words "Licensed Peddler" or "Licensed Solicitor," the expiration
date of the license, and the number of the license. The license shall be kept
with the licensee during such time as he is engaged in the business licensed.
   Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day's violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 114: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
114.01   Annual license fee imposed
   
114.02   Business of selling life insurance
   
114.03   Business of selling all other types of insurance
   
114.04   When payment due
   
114.05   Written breakdown of all collections in preceding year
§ 114.01 ANNUAL LICENSE FEE IMPOSED.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city on a calendar-year basis.
(Ord. 07-04, passed 12-11-07)
§ 114.02 BUSINESS OF SELLING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 5% through June 30, 2008 and thereafter 8% of the first
year's premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of
the issuance of those policies.
(Ord. 07-04, passed 12-11-07)
§ 114.03 BUSINESS OF SELLING ALL OTHER TYPES OF INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 5% through June
30, 2008 and thereafter at 8% of the premiums actually collected within each
calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of those policies on risks located
within the corporate limits of the city on those classes of business which the
company is authorized to transact, less all premiums returned to policy
holders; however, any license fee or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall
not include premiums received for insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees, or death caused thereby, under the
provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act and shall not include premiums
received on policies of health insurance.
(Ord. 07-04, passed 12-11-07)
§ 114.04 WHEN PAYMENT DUE.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(Ord. 07-04, passed 12-11-07)
§ 114.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF ALL COLLECTIONS IN PRECEDING YEAR.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 07-04, passed 12-11-07)
CHAPTER 115: CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Franchise term
   
115.03   Significance of franchise
   
115.04   Partial listing of rights reserved to the city
   
115.05   Application for a franchise
   
115.06   Acceptance and effective date of franchise
   
115.07   Indemnity
   
115.08   Bonds and insurance
   
115.09   Franchise consideration
   
115.10   Franchise territory
   
115.11   Time schedule after franchise is granted
   
115.12   Installation and extension of service
   
115.13   Service to customers
   
115.14   System design
   
115.15   Privacy
   
115.16   Interconnection
   
115.17   Emergencies
   
115.18   Rates
   
115.19   Police powers
   
115.20   Transfer and assignments
   
115.21   Abandonment
   
115.22   Conditions of street occupancy
   
115.23   Arrangements by franchisee with others
   
115.24   Review, renewal, termination and cancellation
   
115.25   Revocation of franchise
   
115.26   Foreclosure; receivership
   
115.27   Books and records of the franchisee
   
115.28   New developments
   
115.29   Time of essence
   
115.30   Franchisee not to contest validity of franchise or regulations
   
115.31   Violations
   
115.32   Repeal of conflicting ordinances
   
115.33   Miscellaneous
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter and any ordinance and agreement awarding a
franchise in accordance herewith, the following terms, phrases, words,
abbreviations, and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein unless
otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise or unless such meaning would be inconsistent with the
manifest intent of the City Commission. When not inconsistent with the context,
words used in the plural number include the singular number, and words in the
singular number include the plural number. Further, the word "shall" is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   "ANNUAL GROSS RECEIPTS." Any and all compensation, revenue, and other
consideration, derived directly or indirectly, in any form whatever, by a
franchisee, its affiliates, subsidiaries, parents from or in connection with,
the operation of a cable communications system in the city.
   "APPLICANT." The natural person, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, association, joint venture, or organization of any kind which
applies for a franchise to be granted under this chapter.
   "CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM." Any facility that, in whole or in part,
receives directly or indirectly and amplifies or otherwise modifies signals
which transmit non-broadcast services, and/or programming broadcast or
furnished by one or more television or radio stations or similar facility and
distributes such signals by wire or cable to subscribing members of the public
who pay for such service. Such definition shall not include any similar
facility that serves only the residents of one or more apartment or condominium
dwelling under common ownership, control or management, or otherwise, and
commercial establishments located on the premises of such an apartment house or
condominium dwelling.
   "CATV." A community antennae cable communications system, composed of,
without limitation, antenna, cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides, laser
beams, or any other conductors, converters, equipment or facilities, designed,
constructed or wired for the purpose of producing, receiving, amplifying and
distributing coaxial cable audio and/or visual radio, television, electronics
or electrical signals to and from persons, subscribers, and locations in the
city hereinafter defined.
   "CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE." That approval required by the FCC in order for
a franchisee to begin operation within the city hereinafter defined.
   "CITY." The City of Hurstbourne, Kentucky, a municipal corporation in the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   "CITY COUNCIL" or "CITY COMMISSION." The present governing body of the city
or any successor to the legislative powers of the present City Council.
   "CONVERTER." An interface device which may be furnished to subscribers in
order that non-standard television channels carried on the cable communications
system may be received on a conventional home television receiver, or to
prevent interference from strong broadcast signals.
   "FAIR MARKET VALUE." The price that a willing buyer under no compulsion to
buy would pay to a willing seller under no compulsion to sell.
   "FCC." The Federal Communications Commission as that agency is presently
constituted by the Communications Act of 1934 as amended, or any successor
agency.
   "FRANCHISE." The non-exclusive rights granted hereunder to construct and
operate a cable communications system along the streets, alleys, and public
ways in the city.
   "FRANCHISEE." The natural person, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, association, joint venture, or organization of any kind, and the
lawful successor, transferee, or assignee of same, granted a franchise by the
City Council under this chapter.
   "PERSON." Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, joint
venture, legal entity or organization of any kind.
   "SERVICE." All communications, maintenance, repair, and installation
services provided by the franchisee, including the delivery of broadcast
signals and programming covered by the regular monthly charge and such
additional communications as are furnished as a part of the cable
communications system in the way of two way, return-path services.
   "STATE." The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   "STREET." The surface of, and the space above and below, any public street,
highway, freeway, bridge, land path, alley, court, boulevard, sidewalk,
parkway, way, land, public way, drive or other public right-of-way including
public utility easements or right-of-way and any temporary or permanent
fixtures or improvements located thereon now or hereafter held by the city
which shall entitle the city and the franchisee to the use thereof for the
purpose of installing, operating, repairing, and maintaining the franchisee's
cable communications system. Said word shall also mean any easement now or
hereafter held by the city for the purpose of public travel and shall include
other easements or rights-of-way as shall be now held or hereafter held by the
city, which shall within their proper use and meaning entitle the city and the
franchisee to the use thereof for the purposes of installing or transmitting
cable communications transmissions over poles, wires, cables, conductors,
ducts, conduits, vaults, man-holes, amplifiers, compliances, attachments, and
other property as may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to a cable
communications system.
   "SUBSCRIBER." Any person who contracts the purchase, orally or in writing,
of any service as may be provided by a franchisee's cable communications
system.
   "SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION." That point at which sufficient distribution
facilities have been installed by the franchisee so as to provide service to at
least 90% of the dwelling units in the franchise territory as described in §
115.10 of this chapter.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.02 FRANCHISE TERM.
   The City Council of the city hereby creates the right, privilege and
franchise to construct, operate, and maintain a community antennae television
system in the streets of the city, subject to the conditions and restrictions
as hereinafter provided; and said right, privilege and franchise shall be
offered to potential applicants and granted by the City Council to the
applicant presenting the best legal, character, financial, technical and other
qualifications, and whose construction plans and arrangements can be shown to
be both feasible and adequate to meet the minimum requirements herein
established. The franchise shall run for a period of 17 years commencing on the
date the franchise is awarded at the end of which time it may be renewed
subject to the approval of the City Council and the provisions of the
Constitution and the statutes of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and applicable
federal law, governing term and sale of franchises then in force and effect.
Any such franchise hereunder shall designate and be conditioned upon the
acceptance by a franchisee of all the terms of this ordinance and any
amendments properly made thereto.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.03 SIGNIFICANCE OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Any franchise granted hereafter by the city shall not be exclusive and
the city reserves the right to grant a similar franchise to any other persons
or entities at any time.
   (B)   No privilege or exemption shall be inferred from the granting of any
franchise unless it is specifically proscribed.
   (C)   Any franchise granted hereunder shall give to the franchisee the right
and privilege to construct, erect, operate, modify and maintain in, upon,
along, above, over and under the streets, alleys and public places of the
incorporated areas of the city such towers, antennae, cables, electronic
equipment and other network appurtenances necessary for the operation of a
cable communications system in the city; provided, however that the exercise of
such right and privilege shall not interfere with the use of such streets,
alleys and public places by the city and such others as are permitted by the
city to use same, and the City Council may demand the removal of the foregoing
as have been constructed by or under contract with a franchisee at such time as
the City Council determines that same are interfering with the use of said
streets, alleys or public places.
   (D)   Any franchise granted hereunder shall be a privilege to be held for
the benefit of the public.
   (E)   Prior approval of the City Council shall be required and obtained
where ownership or control of more than 25% of the right of control of any
franchisee is acquired, disposed of, or transferred by a person or group of
persons acting in concert. Approval of the City Council to such a transfer of
interest shall not be unreasonably withheld. Transfer from a subsidiary to a
parent corporation, or vice versa, shall not be considered as a change of
control.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit the mortgage or
the pledge of the network or any part thereof or a leasing by a franchisee from
another person of said network or part thereof for financing purposes or
otherwise. However, any such mortgage, pledge or lease shall be subject to the
rights of the City Council under this chapter, a franchise granted hereunder,
and all other applicable laws.
   (G)   Any franchise granted hereunder shall not relieve the franchisee of
its obligation to obtain necessary pole or conduit use agreements as are
necessary.
   (H)   The award of any franchise hereunder shall not impart to the
franchisee any right of ownership of streets or city-owned property.
   (I)   Any franchise granted hereunder shall be binding upon the franchisee,
it successors, lessees or assignees.
   (J)   A franchisee, at its expense, shall comply with all applicable laws,
orders, ordinances and regulations of federal, state, city and county or
municipal authorities including those established to protect historic districts
and/or designated landmark sites.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.04 PARTIAL LISTING OF RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE CITY.
   (A)   The city reserves such rights and powers which under applicable
federal or state law or regulations, the city must reserve and maintain.
Franchisee agrees to comply with any action or requirements of the city in the
exercise of such rights and powers which either have been or shall, subsequent
to the grant of said franchise, be enacted or established.
   (B)   The city may designate and transfer its obligations and duties under
the franchise to any elected official, officer, employee, department, agent,
board or Commission of the city and a franchisee shall recognize the authority
of any such transferee.
   (C)   The city may inspect all construction or installation work performed
pursuant to the franchise granted under this chapter.
   (D)   Neither the granting of any franchise hereafter nor any provisions
hereof shall constitute a waiver or bar to the exercise of any governmental
right or power of the city.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.05 APPLICATION FOR A FRANCHISE.
   Applications for an original franchise grant hereunder shall be filed with
the City Clerk, and shall contain the following written information and
provisions:
   (A)   Bid bond/filing fee. Applications shall be submitted with the bid bond
as required by the requirements of § 115.08 of this chapter, and shall be
accompanied by a non-refundable filing fee of $250 payable to the city.
   (B)   The application shall include:
      (1)   A full disclosure of the ownership of the facilities to be used in
rendering the service.
      (2)   A detailed schedule of the rates to be charged for the services
offered, the facilities to be employed, the service area or areas, the
commencement and completion dates of construction of the CATV system and the
proposed dates the service will be available to the areas named.
      (3)   A detailed schedule of rates to be charged for the services offered
to residential, apartment, commercial and other users of service.
   (C)   All applications shall be open to public inspection, shall be kept on
file a reasonable length of time and any intentional misrepresentation in an
application shall be grounds for its rejection or for termination of the
franchise.
   (D)   All applications shall be considered firm and final and shall be
signed and verified by the applicants whose relationship to the applicant shall
be set forth and shall bind the applicant to the provisions thereof and to
applicant's responses thereto.
   (E)   Supplementation to applications. The City Council reserves the right
to require such supplementary, addition or other information that it deems
reasonably necessary for its determinations.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.06 ACCEPTANCE AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Any franchise granted hereunder, together with the rights, privileges
and authority granted thereby, shall take effect and be in force from and after
the effective date of an ordinance awarding a franchise hereunder, provided
that on or before said date the franchisee shall:
      (1)   File with the city an unconditional acceptance of the franchise
grant and enter into and execute such contracts and documents as required by
the City Council consistent with the terms and provisions of this chapter and
such other terms and provisions as were negotiated by the franchisee and the
City Council consistent with the application of the franchisee.
      (2)   File certificate of insurance as set forth in §
115.08 herein.
      (3)   File such bond or bonds as required in §
115.08 herein.
      (4)   Reimburse the city for the costs of publication of this chapter
awarding the franchise, together with incidental expenses and reasonable
attorney's fees.
      (5)   Advise the City Council in writing of the franchisee's location and
its address for mail and official notifications from the City Council.
   (B)   In the event the franchisee fails to comply in full with division (A)
above, then it shall be conclusively considered that the franchisee has
abandoned its application and rights to such grant and award of the franchise,
and any such rights that the franchisee may have acquired under the ordinance
shall immediately terminate, and the franchisee shall have no right, privilege
or authority whatsoever under this chapter.
   (C)   The franchisee shall have no recourse whatsoever against the city for
or on account of any loss, cost, expense or damage arising out of any
provisions or requirements of this chapter and/or the ordinance awarding the
franchise or any amendments thereto or rules or regulations thereunder.
   (D)   The franchisee, by acceptance of any franchise awarded hereunder,
acknowledges that it has relied upon its own investigation and understanding of
the power and authority of the City Council to grant such a franchise.
   (E)   The franchisee, by acceptance of any franchise awarded hereunder,
acknowledges that it has thoroughly examined and is familiar with the terms and
conditions of this chapter, the ordinance awarding the franchise, and such
other contracts and documents entered into by the franchisee relative to the
franchise.
   (F)   The franchisee by acceptance of any franchise awarded hereunder
acknowledges and agrees that the matters contained in the franchisee's
application for franchise or supplements thereto, shall be incorporated into
the ordinance awarding the franchise as though set out verbatim and shall
thereafter be considered an integral part of such ordinance in all
communications, correspondence, filings or applications with all appropriate
regulatory agencies, including the FCC.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.07 INDEMNITY.
   Franchisee shall at its sole cost and expense fully indemnify, defend and
save harmless the city, its officers, boards, commissions, and employees
against any and all claims, suits, actions, liability and judgments for damage
or penalty arising out of the operation of the CATV franchise, including all
out-of-pocket expenses such as attorney fees and all other costs of litigation,
including the reasonable value of any services rendered by the City Attorney or
his assistants or any employee of the city, its officers, boards, commissions,
employees, for acts or claims arising from their own negligence or intentional
acts. The damages or penalties to be indemnified shall include, but not be
limited to, damages arising out of copyright infringement and all other damages
arising out of the installation, operation or maintenance of the CATV system
authorized herein, whether or not such acts or omissions complained of are
authorized, allowed, or prohibited by the franchise.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.08 BONDS AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   All persons submitting an application for a franchise in accordance
herewith shall file with their application bonds solely for the protection of
the city with corporate surety or sureties as follows:
      (1)   A bid bond in the amount of $10,000 which shall indemnify the city
up to the full amount of said bond for any damages or losses arising out of the
failure of the franchisee to execute an agreement in the form proposed under
this chapter; and
      (2)   A construction bond in the amount of $25,000 to be effective from
the date of execution of the franchise agreement and the effective date of the
ordinance awarding the franchise hereunder, and thereafter until the cable
communications system referred to therein is certified completed by the Mayor.
The bond required under this section shall indemnify the city in its own right
and as trustee for subscribers up to the full amount of said bond from any
damages or losses arising out of the failure of the franchisee to faithfully
perform and satisfactorily complete construction of the cable communication
system in accordance with this chapter and any agreement or ordinance in
connection with, including but not limited to, the cost of removal of any
construction, and
      (3)   All persons submitting an application for a franchise in accordance
herewith shall file with their application a bond with a corporate surety in
the amount of $25,000 to be effective upon the execution of the franchise
agreement and the effective date of the ordinance awarding the franchise
hereunder, and conditioned that in the event that the franchisee fails to
comply with any provisions of this chapter or agreement or ordinance awarding a
franchise in accordance herewith, then there shall be recovered jointly and
severally from the principals and surety any and all damages or costs suffered
or incurred by the city or any subscriber as a result thereof, including but
not limited to, costs and reasonable attorney's fees of any action or
proceeding, and including the full amount of any compensation, indemnification,
costs of removal or abandonment of any property or other costs which may be in
default, up to the full principal amount of such bond; this condition shall be
a continuing obligation during the entire term of any agreement or ordinance or
ordinances awarded the franchisee in accordance herewith and thereafter until
the franchisee shall have satisfied in full any and all obligations to the city
which arise out of or pertain to same; and
      (4)   None of the provisions of this section nor any bond accepted by the
city pursuant thereto, nor any damages recovered by the city thereunder, shall
be construed to excuse the faithful performance by or limit the liability of
the franchisee under this chapter or any agreement or ordinance awarding a
franchise in accordance therewith for damages either to the full amount of said
bond or otherwise.
   (B)   Within 30 days after the granting of the franchise and at all times
during the term of the franchise, franchisee shall obtain and pay all premiums
for the following:
      (1)   A general comprehensive public liability insurance policy
indemnifying, defending, and saving harmless the city, its officers, board,
commissions, agents or employees from any and all claims by any person
whatsoever on account of injury to or death of a person or persons occasioned
by the operations of a franchisee under the franchise herein granted, or
alleged to have been so caused or incurred with a minimum liability of
$1,000,000 for bodily injury or death of any one person and $2,500,000 for
bodily injuries or death to two or any more persons in any one occurrence.
      (2)   Property damage insurance indemnifying, defending and saving
harmless the city, its officers, boards, commissions, agents and employees from
and against all claims by any person whatsoever for property damage occasioned
by the operation of franchisee under the franchise herein granted, or alleged
to have been so lost or incurred with a minimum liability of $500,000 for
property damage to any one person and $1,000,000 for property damage to two or
more persons in any one occurrence.
   (C)   Such insurance as provided for in this section shall be kept in full
force and effect by the franchisee during the existence of the franchise with
insurance companies qualified to do business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
The policies shall require 30 days written notice to both city and franchisee
herein prior to any cancellation thereof, and copies of said policies shall be
filed with the city.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.09 FRANCHISE CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A franchisee herein shall pay to the city as consideration during the
life of the franchise the sum of not less than three percent of the annual
gross receipts of such franchise. Such payment shall be in addition to any
other payment owed to the city by the franchisee and shall not be construed as
payment in lieu of personal or real property taxes levied by state, city, or
county authorities. A franchisee shall annually file with the city 45 days
after the expiration of each fiscal year a financial statement showing in
detail the gross annual receipts as defined herein of the franchisee during
that calendar year. It shall be the duty of the franchisee to pay to the city
at the time of filing said financial statement the sums of consideration
hereinabove prescribed.
   (B)   In the event the franchise should be terminated or forfeited prior to
the end of the five year term, the franchisee shall immediately submit to the
City Council a financial statement prepared as before required, showing the
gross receipts of the franchisee for the time elapsed since the last period it
paid to the city the required percentage of gross annual receipts, and the
franchisee shall pay to the city not later than 30 days following the
termination of the franchise, a like percentage of such gross receipts and any
other sums legally due and owing to the city.
   (C)   In the event that any statement and/or payment is not made on or
before the applicable date fixed in division (A) hereof, interest on such
payments shall apply from such date at the current prime interest rate, but not
less than 10% per annum.
   (D)   The city shall have the right to inspect a franchisee's records
showing the gross receipts from which its franchise payments are computed and
shall have the right of audit and recomputation of any and all amounts paid
under the franchise. No acceptance of any payment by the city shall be
construed as a release of or an accord or satisfaction of any claim the city
might have for further or additional sums payable under the terms of this
chapter or for any other performance or obligation of a franchisee hereunder.
   (E)   Payments of compensation made by a franchisee to the city pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter shall not be considered in the nature of a tax,
but shall be in addition to any and all taxes which are now or hereafter
required to be paid by any law of the United States, the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, or the city.
   (F)   Sales taxes or any other taxes which are collected from subscribers by
a franchisee and are to be remitted to a governmental agency, shall be deducted
from the annual gross revenues.
   (G)   Should the FCC or other governmental agency cease to regulate the
amount of percentage sums payable hereunder, then in that event the City
Council and any franchisee shall have the right to immediately renegotiate the
sum and manner of calculation of franchise payments payable hereunder shall be
conditioned upon and subject to agreement on same between the city and any
franchisee.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.10 FRANCHISE TERRITORY.
   (A)   Any ordinance awarding a franchise to operate a cable communications
system in accordance herewith shall apply to its operation throughout all of
the incorporated areas of the city as now or may in the future exist.
   (B)   The franchisee shall endeavor to offer cable communications service to
all residents of the city. To the extent that the franchisee intends not to
provide service to any specific area, street, building or other location, the
franchisee shall designate same and clearly indicate in its application for a
franchise in accordance herewith the technical or economic reason for its
inability to provide service in the enumerated locations.
   (C)   The franchisee is not required under this chapter or any contract
granted hereunder to extend it facilities to any area unless there exists in
that area a potential of at least 35 subscribers per mile of trunk cable
system. When the potential of 35 subscribers per mile does not exist, the
company may make a charge at actual cost, including labor and material for
cable extension, for service in this portion of the system.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.11 TIME SCHEDULE AFTER FRANCHISE IS GRANTED.
   The franchisee shall adhere to the following time schedules:
   (A)   Within 60 days after the effective date of the ordinance awarding the
franchise, the franchisee shall proceed with due diligence to obtain all
necessary permits and authorizations which are required in the conduct of its
business, including but not limited to, any utility joint use attachment
agreements, microwave carrier licenses, and any other permits, licenses and
authorizations to be granted by duly constituted regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the operation of CATV systems, or their associated micro-wave
transmission facilities.
   (B)   The company agrees to comply with all of the procedural requirements
of the FCC. The franchisee shall notify all necessary parties, including the
FCC, within 30 days following the effective date of the ordinance awarding a
franchise hereunder of its intent to operate a cable communications system and
shall begin construction with time period set forth in the franchisee's
application for a franchise hereunder. If for any reason the franchisee has not
notified all parties within the 30 days, then the franchise shall be considered
null and void.
   (C)   Within the time period as specified in the franchisee's proposal, the
franchisee shall have achieved substantial completion of construction. However,
the date to substantially complete construction shall be extended by the number
of days of delay of the franchisee caused by strikes, lockouts, fire, unusual
delay in transportation, unavoidable casualty or other such delay authorized by
the City Council.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.12 INSTALLATION AND EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The franchisee shall extend cable to new developments and subdivisions
and to other areas, including, but not limited to, blocks or streets
simultaneously with the installation of electric power and telephone utility
facilities, provided same is contiguous to any part of the installed CATV
system. If it is not, then service shall be extended as soon as same is
contiguous to any part of the installed CATV system.
   (B)   In all cases where new developments and subdivisions are to be
constructed and to be served in whole or in part by both underground power and
telephone utilities, the owner or developer of such areas shall provide the
franchisee the trench, backfill and all necessary substructures for cables in
order that the franchisee may install all necessary electronic cable
communications facilities. In no event shall such undergrounding be at any cost
or expense to the city.
   (C)   Failure to install cable in accordance with the construction timetable
as provided in §
115.11 hereof, or to extend cable within 90 days of a subscriber's request for
service to new developments, subdivisions or other areas in instances
controlled by divisions (A) and (B) above hereof shall constitute a violation
of this chapter and a material breach of any agreement awarding a franchise in
accordance herewith shall subject the franchisee to all the penalties and
remedies prescribed in this chapter as well as all other remedies, both legal
and equitable, which are available to the city.
   (D)   Cable communications service shall be made available to all individual
dwellings, residences, including apartments, condominiums, cooperative or
associate buildings, institutions, organizations, businesses and all other
entities within the designated franchise area as the same now or in the future
may exist.
   (E)   Installation and service fees for the first television set of any
subscriber shall be uniform for all entities listed in division (D) above.
      (1)   Installation or subscriber use of cable communications system
service which involves retransmission of the cable signal to multiple reception
points within a structure shall be negotiated separately by the franchisee and
the owner of the structure or the subscriber. Service to condominium buildings
shall be on such conditions as the governing body of the tenants in common may
provide as are agreed upon by the franchisee. Neither the franchisee nor the
city shall be responsible or liable for any failure to provide cable
communications service to a lessee or condominium owner whose lessor or
governing body refuses the installation of such service. The provision of cable
communications services to any multiple dwelling structure shall not be
conditioned upon the purchase by the owner, lessor or governing body of such
structure of any service of the franchisee or any person designated by it.
   (F)   Residential installation, including multiple drops, shall be offered
as the feeder line passes the dwelling unit.
   (G)   All of the franchisee's cable equipment shall be removed within a
reasonable time, such time not to exceed one month from a subscriber's property
at the subscriber's written request.
      (1)   Where such removal interferes with the provision of cable
communications services to another subscriber, it shall be the obligation of
the subscriber so affected to secure a legal agreement which will enable the
franchisee to provide the subscriber the cable communications service the
subscriber desires.
      (2)   Where attachment to or use of a non-subscriber's property is
necessary for the provision of cable communications services to a subscriber,
it shall be the obligation of such subscriber to secure a legal agreement which
will enable the franchisee to provide the service the subscriber desires.
   (H)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a representation,
promise or guarantee by the city that any permit or other authorization
required under any city law for the construction or installation of a cable
communications system shall be issued.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.13 SERVICE TO CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   The cable communications system shall be designed for operation 24
hours per day and shall endure service interruptions only for good cause and
for a reasonable time. Permissible interruptions of service shall be for the
shortest possible time.
   (B)   The franchisee shall maintain an office in Jefferson County which
shall be open to the general public during normal business hours.
   (C)   The franchisee shall have a publicly listed telephone number.
      (1)   The franchisee shall employ an operator or maintain a telephone
answering device 24 hours per day, each day of the year to receive subscriber
complaints.
   (D)   The franchisee shall maintain a maintenance and repair service capable
of responding to subscriber complaints or requests for repairs within 24 hours
after the receipt of the complaint or request. If the franchisee or any of its
shareholders owning at least three percent of its stock, or any subsidiary,
parent or affiliated corporation of the franchisee engages in the business or
activity of selling, leasing, repairing, dismantling or installing television
or radio receivers, or accessories for such receivers, cameras, audio or video
tape machines, video tapes, microphones, control boxes, modulators, or other
equipment utilized by users or subscribers in the operation of any cable
communications system, the franchisee shall not condition cable communications
service or the continuation thereof or usage of cable communications facility
on a subscriber's purchase of or failure to purchase any of such services or
equipment.
   (E)   In the event that its service to subscribers is interrupted for 48 or
more consecutive hours, except for acts of God, riots, or a state of emergency
declared by the President of the United States, the Governor of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, or the County/Judge Executive of Jefferson County,
Kentucky, the franchisee shall grant affected subscriber a pro rata credit or
rebate for the duration of the interruption. An unreasonable interruption of
subscriber services shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and a breach of
any agreement awarding a franchise in accordance herewith and subject the
franchisee to all of the penalties and remedies prescribed in the Agreement as
well as all other remedies, both legal and equitable, which are available to
the city.
   (F)   The franchisee shall not deny or delay service or use of cable
communications facility or otherwise discriminate against subscribers or users
on the basis of age, race, creed, color, sex, national origin, or marital
status.
   (G)   The franchisee shall maintain in constant readiness equipment capable
of providing standby powering for the headend, transportation and trunk
amplifiers for a minimum of four hours.
      (1)   Said equipment shall be constructed so as to revert automatically
to a standby mode when alternating current power returns.
      (2)   The franchisee shall comply with all utility and other safety
regulations to prevent a standby generator from powering the "dead" utility
line so as to prevent injury to any person.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.14 SYSTEM DESIGN.
   The franchisee shall install a first quality cable system, using equipment
designated by a major supplier of CATV equipment.
   (A)   All necessary return-path amplifiers and/or amplifier modules shall
provide maximum two-way service capability, and shall be installed at the time
of initial construction.
   (B)   The number of channels to be provided and their use shall be described
in the franchise proposal.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.15 PRIVACY.
   The franchisee shall strictly observe the privacy and property rights of
subscribers. The subscriber's rights of privacy shall be protected at all times
by the franchisee. Individual subscriber preferences, viewing habits, beliefs,
philosophy, creeds, religions or political beliefs shall not be revealed to any
person, firm, agency, governmental unit, police department or investigating
agency unless upon the authority of a court of law or upon prior voluntary
valid written authorization of the subscriber, which shall not in any event be
required as a condition of receiving service.
   (A)   Without the authorization described herein, neither the franchisee nor
any other person shall in any manner activate, utilize or otherwise operate any
channel from a subscriber's location.
   (B)   Every subscriber shall have the absolute right to deactivate the
return path from the subscriber's receiver at the franchisee's sole cost.
   (C)   The franchisee shall not tabulate any test results, nor permit the use
of its cable communications system for such tabulation, which would reveal the
commercial product preferences or opinions of subscribers, members of their
families or their invitees, licensees or employees.
   (D)   Violation of any provision of this section of this chapter shall be
considered a material breach of this chapter and any agreement or ordinance
awarding a franchise in accordance herewith and shall subject the franchisee to
all penalties and remedies prescribed in this chapter as well as all other
legal or equitable remedies available to the city.
   (E)   Each compilation, publication, tabulation or other dissemination of
each piece of information made or permitted to be made in violation of this
section shall be considered a separate violation of this chapter.
   (F)   A subscriber may at any time revoke any authorization previously made,
by delivering to the franchisee in writing a substantial indication of his
intent to so revoke. Any such revocation shall be effective on receipt by the
franchisee.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.16 INTERCONNECTION.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to prohibit the
franchisee from interconnecting its network with other similar networks either
in the city or in other municipalities, counties or states or countries. Any
applicable revenues derived therefrom shall be equitably allocated in the
calculation of annual gross subscriber revenues.
   (B)   The franchisee shall incorporate into its facilities the capability of
an override alert system whereby the Jefferson County Judge/Executive, in time
of crisis, may be able to introduce a bulletin on all channels simultaneously.
   (C)   If at any time, in case of fire or disaster in the city, it shall
become necessary in the reasonable judgement of the Mayor of the city, to cut
or move any of the wires, cables, amplifiers, or other appurtenances to the
network of the franchisee, such cutting or moving may be done and any repairs
rendered necessary thereby shall be made by the franchisee, at its sole expense
provided that such repairs are not necessitated by a negligent act of the city
in which case, cost for repairs shall be borne by the city.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.17 EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In the event of an emergency or disaster, a franchisee shall upon the
request of the Jefferson County Judge/Executive, make available its facilities
to the city or to the county, state, or federal government, at no cost for
emergency use during the period of such emergency or disaster and shall provide
such personnel as necessary to properly operate the system under the
circumstances.
   (B)   The franchisee shall incorporate into its facilities the capability of
an override alert system whereby the Jefferson County Judge/Executive, in a
time of crisis, may be able to introduce a bulletin on all channels
simultaneously.
   (C)   If at any time, in case of fire or disaster in the city, it shall
become necessary in the reasonable judgment of the Mayor of the city, to cut or
move any of the wires, cables, amplifiers, or other appurtenances to the
network of the franchisee, such cutting or moving may be done and any repairs
rendered necessary thereby shall be made by the franchisee, at its sole expense
provided that such repairs are not necessitated by a negligent act of the city
in which case, cost for repairs shall be borne by the city.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.18 RATES.
   (A)   To the extend allowed by law, the City Council expressly reserves the
right and retains its jurisdiction to authorize, establish and approve all
rates which the franchisee charges subscribers, including rates for subscriber
service, equipment, maintenance and repair. By acceptance of a franchise, the
franchisee agrees that the City Council shall have such power, right and
jurisdiction. All rates and charges shall be non-discriminatory.
   (B)   To the extent allowed by law, no rate, fee or charge of any kind shall
be charged or collected from subscribers by the franchisee without the
authorization and approval of the City Council. Violation of this section shall
be deemed to be a breach of any agreement awarding a franchise in accordance
herewith and shall subject the franchisee to all remedies and penalties
prescribed in this chapter and to all other remedies, legal and equitable,
which are available to the city.
   (C)   The initial rates to be charged and collected from subscribers shall
be in conformity with the franchisee's application hereunder, and established
in the Agreement awarding a franchise in accordance herewith, and shall remain
in force for a minimum of 30 months from and after the date of execution of the
said Agreement and the effective date of the ordinance awarding the franchise.
Provided, however, that should the City Council determine to amend any
franchise within the purview of §
115.28 hereof, the franchisee may request rate increases or decreases in
accordance with this section.
   (D)   The franchisee shall file with the City Clerk on December 31 each year
a full schedule of all subscriber and user rates and all other charges made in
connection with the operation of the cable communications system.
      (1)   Any and all special rates for institutions, motels, hotels, inns,
multiple-family dwelling units, or any other type of sub-dwelling units, or any
other type of subscriber shall be included.
      (2)   All rates shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk of the
city.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the reduction
or waiving of charges in conjunction with promotional campaigns for the purpose
of attracting subscribers of users.
   (F)   The franchisee shall neither impose nor collect any additional charge
for the disconnection of any installation or outlet.
   (G)   In the event that a subscriber fails to pay a properly due and owing
fee or charge, the franchisee may disconnect the subscriber's service outlet,
upon giving ten days written notice thereof.
   (H)   The franchisee shall establish and conform to the following policy
regarding refunds to subscribers and users.
      (1)   If the franchisee collects a deposit or advance charge on any
service or equipment requested by a subscriber or use, the franchisee shall
provide said service or equipment within 30 days of the collection of the
deposit or charge or it shall refund said deposit or charge within five days
thereafter.
         (a)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve the
franchisee of any responsibility to subscribers or users under any contractual
agreements into which it enters with them.
         (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting the
franchisee's liability for penalties which may be imposed under this chapter or
for the violation or breach of any of its provisions.
         (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the
franchisee's liability for damages because of its failure to provide the
service for which the deposit or charge was made.
      (2)   In the event that a subscriber terminates service during the first
12 months because of the failure of the franchisee to render the service in
accordance with the requirements set forth in this chapter, or in any agreement
or ordinance in accordance herewith, the franchisee shall refund to such
subscriber an amount equal to the initial applicable installation or
reconnection charge paid by the subscriber.
         (a)   In the event that such subscriber has made an advance payment
the amount so advanced shall be refunded to such subscriber by the franchisee.
Nothing in this provision shall be construed to relieve the franchisee of any
liability established under any other provision of this chapter or any
agreement or ordinance in accordance herewith.
      (3)   In the event that a subscriber terminates service prior to the end
of a pre-paid period, the pro rata portion of any prepaid subscriber fee which
represents payment for services which are no longer to be rendered, shall be
refunded promptly, but in no case more than 30 days after receipt of the
request for termination.
   (I)   The franchisee shall not charge a converter security deposit greater
than said converter's actual cost to the franchisee. Any converter security
deposit collected by the franchisee shall be returned to the subscriber 36
months after the installation of such converter or within 60 days upon
termination of service by the subscriber and return of converter undamaged,
with allowance for reasonable wear and tear, and payment of any outstanding
balance due and payable.
   (J)   A franchisee may, from time to time, subject to the limitation
contained in division (C) hereinabove, request of the City Council rate
increases or decreases. A franchisee shall be allowed to increase its rates and
charges if it is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City Council
that it is unable to realize a fair return on its investment without a rate or
charge increase. The City Council shall establish the procedure for hearings
and review of any such request. The City Council may allow rate or charge
reduction at any time if it shall determine that the existing rates and charges
unreasonably restrict the growth of cable television in the city and that the
proposed rates and charges will continue to allow the franchisee a reasonable
profit. Any such request shall be made no less than 60 days in advance of the
effective date of the change or changes requested.
   (K)   A franchisee may, at any time, request of the City Council,
establishment, authorization, and approval of rates and charges for new or
additional services which the franchisee desires to offer its subscribers. Any
such request shall be made no less than 60 days in advance of the offering of
such new or additional services.
      (1)   In the event the franchisee for the city also has a CATV franchise
for the unincorporated area of Jefferson County, Kentucky, the rates for like
services in the city shall not exceed the rates charged for similar services in
the unincorporated area of Jefferson County. In the event that the Fiscal Court
of Jefferson County approves a rate increase or reduction for the same CATV
franchisee that has the city franchise, the franchisee shall within ten days
thereafter file with the City Clerk of the city a complete schedule of the
Jefferson County approved CATV rates. The City Clerk shall forthwith advise all
members of the City Council and the Mayor of the approved Jefferson County CATV
rate schedule. Unless the franchisee, a member of the City Council, or the
Mayor requests a CATV rate hearing for city rates within 60 days after the
filing of the approved Jefferson County CATV rate schedule with the City Clerk,
the approved Jefferson County CATV rate schedule shall automatically be the
approved and authorized CATV rate schedule for the city, effective 61 days
after the approved Jefferson County CATV rate schedule is filed with the City
Clerk by the franchisee.
   (M)   No charge shall be made to the city for its use of government access
channels, and under no circumstances shall the city be obligated to pay to a
franchisee any fee for service rendered to the city under the terms of the
franchise.
   (N)   Nothing herein shall be deemed to prohibit the setting of special
rates for certain classes of citizens for certain types of subscriber service,
when, by the determination of the City Council, and at its sole discretion,
such special rates are justified by the potential of such service to assist
with the health, care and/or safety of such citizens.
   (O)   Nothing contained in this section on rates shall be deemed to give the
city any authority for rate control prohibited by applicable federal law or
regulations.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.19 POLICE POWERS.
   Nothing in this chapter or in any agreement or ordinance in accordance
herewith shall be construed as a abrogation by the city of any of its police
powers.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.20 TRANSFER AND ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   The franchisee shall not transfer, assign, sell, lease or dispose of,
its interest in any franchise or ordinance or agreement awarding a franchise in
accordance herewith or in its cable communications system without the prior
written authorization of the City Council. A merger or consolidation shall be
deemed a transfer or assignment.
   (B)   During the term of any franchise, the franchisee shall not sell,
transfer, assign, lease, dispose of, exchange or release more than 25% of the
ownership of its cable communications system to a person, (hereinafter
"proposed transferee") without the prior written authorization of City Council.
The City Council may require such information as it reasonably deems necessary
from the franchisee in connection with a proposal to sell, transfer, assign,
lease, dispose of, exchange or release of more than 25% of the ownership of its
cable communications system.
   (C)   Any proposed transferee shall execute an agreement, in the form and
containing the conditions approved by the City Attorney that it will assume and
be bound by all of the provisions, terms and conditions of this chapter and any
agreement or ordinance in accordance herewith and all applicable federal, state
and local laws and further that it shall be primarily liable and obligated
under said documents without, however, relieving the franchisee from its
obligations to the city under said document.
   (D)   No transfer under division (A) or (B) of this section shall be made
within 13 months of the termination date of the term of franchise agreement.
   (E)   Nothing in any approval by the City Council of any transfer or
assignment of any ownership interest pursuant to divisions (A) and (B) of this
section shall be construed to waive or release any rights of the city in and to
the streets, public ways and public places of the city or as a release of any
of the city's police powers.
   (F)   The occurrence of any event which constitutes either grounds for entry
of an Order for Relief under the united states Bankruptcy Code, or placement of
the franchisee into receivership, or the issuance of any order to the
franchisee or any of its stockholders by a government agency or court of
competent jurisdiction to divest any interest related to the cable
communications system hereunder, or the entry of any judgment against the
franchisee which, in the opinion of the City Council impairs the franchisee's
credit shall be deemed an unauthorized transfer and assignment under the
provisions of this section and shall:
      (1)   Be deemed a material breach and default of any agreement or
ordinance awarding a franchise in accordance herewith; and
      (2)   Subject the franchisee to all penalties and remedies prescribed in
the agreement and to all other remedies, legal and equitable which are
available to the city.
   (G)   The occurrence of an unauthorized transfer or assignment may, at the
option of the city, terminate any agreement and franchise and accelerate all of
the obligations and rights thereunder including, inter alia, the right of the
city to purchase the cable communications system at book value or to award a
franchise to another person.
      (1)   The franchisee shall notify the City Clerk of any occurrence which
constitutes an unauthorized transfer under the provisions of division (F)
hereof and of the entry of any judgment against it within 24 hours of such
occurrence.
   (H)   From and after any of the occurrences enumerated in division (F)
hereof, the franchisee shall not make, execute or enter into any deed, deed of
trust, mortgage, contract, conditional sales contract or any loan, lease,
pledge, sale, pole agreement or any other agreement or hypothecation concerning
any of the facilities or property, real or personal, of the cable
communications system without the written approval of City Council.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.21 ABANDONMENT.
   In the event that the use of any part of the system is discontinued for any
reason by any franchisee for a continuous period of 12 months, or in the event
such system or property has been installed in any street or public place
without complying with requirements of this chapter, or the rights granted
hereunder have been terminated, canceled or have expired, the franchisee shall
promptly remove from the streets and public places all such property and poles
of such system, other than any which the city may permit to be abandoned in
place. In the event of such removal, the franchisee shall promptly restore the
street or other area from which such property has been removed to a condition
satisfactory to the City Council. Any property of a franchisee to abandoned in
place shall be abandoned in such manner as City Council may prescribe. Upon a
permanent abandonment of the property of a franchisee in place, the franchisee
shall submit to the City Council an instrument to be approved by the City
Council transferring to the city ownership of such property.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.22 CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   All transmissions and distribution structures, lines and equipment
erected by the franchisee within the city shall be so located as to cause
minimum interference with the proper use of streets, alleys and other public
ways and places and to cause minimum interference with the rights and
reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any of said streets,
alleys or other public places. The cable communications system shall be
constructed and operated in compliance with all adopted local and national
construction and safety codes.
   (B)   The installation of the cable communications system shall be in
accordance with all applicable laws, codes, ordinances, rules and regulations
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the city affecting electrical installations
and buildings, now or hereafter in effect.
   (C)   Except when absolutely necessary to service a subscriber and not
simply because it shall be more convenient, economical, or profitable for the
franchisee to so operate, and then only when expressly permitted in writing by
the City Engineer or the Mayor, under such conditions as he shall prescribe for
the public welfare, the franchisee shall not erect or authorize or permit
others to erect any poles or other facilities within the streets of the city
for conduct of its cable communications system, but shall use the existing
poles and other equipment of the appropriate electrical power and telephone or
other utility companies under such terms and agreements as the franchisee shall
negotiate with these companies. The franchisee shall use its best efforts to
insure that the terms and agreements between the franchisee and any utility
company are concluded in a reasonable time with no unnecessary delay.
   (D)   Franchisee shall not locate any of its property above-ground in any
area between the rear wall of any residence and the street, whether on private
property or public right of way. If franchisee shall in any case be unable, for
operational reasons only, to locate any property underground, the City Council
may permit a limited amount of such property in front of a residence upon such
terms and conditions as the Council may require.
   (E)   The franchisee may trim trees which infringe upon easements, rights-
of-way, or streets of the city to prevent the trees from coming in contact with
the cable communications system.
   (F)   The franchisee shall at its expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate or remove any property of the franchisee located on
streets, public places, rights-of-way and easements of the city, when required
by the City Council because of traffic conditions, public safety, street
vacation, freeway and street construction, change or establishment of street
grade, installation of sewers, drains, water pipes, power lines, signal lines,
and tracks or any other type of structures or improvements by the city or the
Commonwealth of Kentucky. If the franchisee fails to do so, the city or the
Commonwealth of Kentucky may cause the necessary work to be completed and the
franchisee shall pay the cost thereof within ten days of receipt of an itemized
account of such cost.
   (G)   Whenever the city of the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall require the
relocation or reinstallation of any property of the franchisee in any of the
streets or public places of the city, it shall be the obligation of the
franchisee upon notice of such requirement to immediately remove and relocate
or reinstall said property as may be reasonably necessary at the sole cost of
the franchisee.
   (H)   Whenever, in any place within the city, all or any part of the
electric or telephone utilities shall be located underground, it shall be the
obligation of the franchisee to locate or to cause its property to be located
underground within such places. If the electric or telephone utilities shall be
located underground, in any place within the city after the franchisee shall
have previously installed its property, nevertheless, the franchisee shall, at
the same time or immediately thereafter, remove and relocate its property also
underground in such places. If the franchisee shall in case be unable, for
operational reasons only, to locate or relocate any part of its property
underground, then in that event the City Engineer or the Mayor upon being
satisfied as to the facts thereof and subject to the concurrence of the City
Council may permit such property to remain above the ground even though other
facilities may be placed underground in the area. However, any such permission
shall be upon such conditions as the City Council may require for the public
welfare. Any facilities of the franchisee placed underground at the property
owners request, in an area where electric and telephone facilities are aerial,
shall be installed with the additional expense paid by the property owner.
   (I)   In the case of disturbance of any street caused by the franchisee, the
franchisee shall, at its own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the
City Engineer or the Mayor, replace and restore such street, in such a
condition as before the work involving such disturbance was done.
   (J)   The franchisee shall upon request temporarily raise or lower its wires
to permit the moving of buildings or other things. The expense of such
temporary removal or raising or lowering of the wires shall be paid by the
person requesting the same and the franchisee shall have the authority to
require such payment in advance. The franchisee shall be given not less than 72
hours advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.23 ARRANGEMENTS BY FRANCHISEE WITH OTHERS.
   There is hereby granted to the franchisee authority to lease, rent, or in
any other manner obtain the use of towers, poles, lines, cables, licenses and
utilities within the city, including, but not limited to, the South Central
Bell Telephone Company and Louisville Gas and Electric Company, and in each
instance the franchisee shall make its own contractual arrangements with such
entity in order to obtain the use of towers, poles, lines, cables and other
facilities and shall report their arrangements to the City Engineer or the
Mayor.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.24 REVIEW, RENEWAL, TERMINATION AND CANCELLATION.
   (A)   The procedure for renewal or termination of any franchise or agreement
or ordinance awarding the franchise in accordance herewith shall require public
hearings prior to action by the City Council. Hearings in connection with a
renewal of a franchise shall take place not less than 90 days prior to the
termination of the franchise. The City Council shall after a hearing take such
action as its deems appropriate, which may include any of the following:
      (1)   The City Council may renew the franchise and agreement and
ordinance awarding a franchise in accordance herewith upon such conditions as
it may direct;
      (2)   The City Council may authorize the franchisee to transfer the cable
communications system to another acceptable franchisee or cable operator;
      (3)   The City Council may solicit proposals for and execute a new
agreement awarding a franchise in accordance with this chapter and any
amendments hereto; or
      (4)   The City Council may determine not to authorize the award of any
further franchise, and thereupon, may direct the franchisee to dismantle its
cable communication system.
         (a)   If the franchisee determines not to renew the agreement awarding
a franchise in accordance herewith, the City Council shall proceed to follow
one of the courses under division (B)(2) or (3).
   (B)   Termination.
      (1)   The City Council may terminate any agreement awarding a franchise
in accordance herewith in the event of the violation of any provision hereof or
of any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant hereto or of any applicable
federal, state, or local law, or the breach or other failure, refusal, or
neglect by the franchisee to perform its obligations under the terms and
conditions of the ordinance or any ordinance or agreement awarding a franchise
in accordance herewith, except when such violation, breach, failure, refusal or
neglect is caused by any of the following:
         (a)   Act of God;
         (b)   Riot;
         (c)   An emergency declared by the President of the United States of
America, the Governor of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the County Judge/
Executive of Jefferson County, Kentucky or the Mayor; or
         (d)   A condition beyond the control of the franchisee.
      (2)   In the event that the City Council determines that the franchisee
has violated any provision of this chapter, any rule or regulation promulgated
pursuant hereto, any applicable federal, state, or local law, or any term of an
agreement or ordinance awarding a franchise, except as noted in subdivision (1)
of this division, the City Council shall make a written demand on the
franchisee that it comply with the law or said agreement or ordinance. If the
violation, breach, failure, refusal or neglect is not remedied to the
satisfaction of the City Council, within 30 days following such demand, the
City Council shall determine whether or not, in its sole discretion, such
violation, breach, failure, refusal, or neglect by the franchisee was excusable
or inexcusable as provided in subdivision (1) of this division.
         (a)   If the City Council determines such violation, breach, failure,
refusal or neglect by the franchisee was excusable as provided in subdivision
(1) of this division, the City Council shall direct the franchisee to correct
or remedy the same with such additional time, in such manner and upon such
terms and conditions as the City Council may direct.
         (b)   If the City Council determines such violation, breach, failure,
refusal, or neglect by the franchisee was inexcusable as provided in
subdivision (1) of this divisions, then the City Council shall declare this
chapter, the franchise, or the agreement or ordinance awarding a franchise in
accordance herewith breached, terminated, and of no further force and effect.
This action shall be taken by ordinance.
            1.   Termination shall in no way limit the rights of the city or
the franchisee to any remedies legal or equitable, available to the city or
franchisee.
      (3)   If the City Council declares the said agreement breached pursuant
to subdivision (1) of this division, the City Council may pursue any remedies
available to it pursuant to this chapter or to the said franchise agreement or
ordinance or any other remedy, legal or equitable, available to the City
Council. In addition, the City Council may take action listed in subdivision
(2) of this division.
   (C)   In the event that the franchisee dismantles or terminates the cable
communications system or is required by any provision of this chapter to
dismantle or terminate the cable communications system, the franchisee shall at
the City Council's direction, restore any property, public or private, to the
condition in which it existed prior to the erection or construction of the
system, including any improvements made to such property subsequent to the
construction of the system. Restoration of city property, including, but not
limited to, streets, shall be in accordance with the directions and
specifications of the City Council and all applicable laws. The franchisee, at
the option and direction of the City Council, shall restore the same at its
expense.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.25 REVOCATION OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Any franchise issued hereunder may, after hearing be revoked, altered,
or suspended by the City Council as it deems necessary on any of the following
grounds:
      (1)   For willful false or misleading statement in, or material omissions
from, any application;
      (2)   For failure to file and maintain the bonds required under this
chapter;
      (3)   For repeated failure, as determined by the City Council to maintain
signal quality;
      (4)   For any sale, lease, assignment, or other transfer of its permit
without consent of the City Council;
      (5)   For an inability to provide CATV service to subscribers at the
rates authorized by the City Council.
      (6)   For failure to properly provide service to subscribers or to the
city; and
      (7)   For violation of the terms of its franchise or the agreement or
ordinance awarding same or of this chapter as stated herein. In addition to all
other rights and powers reserved or pertaining to the City Council, the City
Council reserves as an additional and as a separate and distinct remedy the
right to revoke the franchise and all right and privileges of the franchisee
thereunder in any of the following events or for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   The franchisee shall by act or omission fail to comply with any
term or condition of this chapter and shall within 30 days following written
demand by the City Council to effect such compliance fail or refuse to do so;
         (b)   Any provision of this chapter shall be finally adjudged by a
court of law invalid or unenforceable and the City Council further finds that
such provision constitutes at that time a consideration material to the
continuance of the franchise herein granted; or
         (c)   The franchisee becomes insolvent; unable, unwilling or fails to
pay its debts as such debts become due; or a custodian, receiver, trustee or
agent appointed or authorized to do so, is appointed or takes charge of less
than substantially all or substantially all of the property of a franchisee for
the purpose of enforcing any lien, whether judicial, execution or otherwise; is
the subject debtor of an Order for Relief entered by a Bankruptcy Court; or all
or part of a franchisee's facilities be sold under an instrument to secure a
debt and are not redeemed by franchisee within 30 days from said sale; or
         (d)   The franchisee attempts to or practices any fraud or deceit in
its conduct or relations under the franchise.
   (B)   No such revocation shall be effective unless or until the City Council
shall have adopted an ordinance setting forth the cause and reasons for the
revocation and the effective date thereof which ordinance shall not be adopted
without 30 days prior notice thereof to the franchisee and a full opportunity
offered to the franchisee to be heard upon the proposed adoption of said
ordinance. The franchisee shall not be declared in default or be subject to any
sanction under any provision of this contract in any case in which the
performance of any such provision is prevented for reasons beyond its control.
§ 115.26 FORECLOSURE; RECEIVERSHIP.
   (A)   Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a substantial
part of the cable communications system, or upon the termination of any lease
covering all or a substantial part of the system, the franchisee shall notify
the City Council of such fact, an such notification shall be treated as a
notification that a change in control of the franchisee has taken place and the
provisions of this chapter governing the consent of the City Council to such
change in control of the franchisee shall apply.
   (B)   The City Council shall have the right to cancel this franchise 120
days after the appointment of a receiver, or trustee, to take over and conduct
the business of the franchisee, whether in receivership, reorganization,
bankruptcy, or other action or proceeding, unless such receivership or
trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the expiration of said 120 days,
or unless;
      (1)   Within 120 days after his election of appointment, such receiver or
trustee shall have fully complied with all of the provisions of this chapter
and the agreement and ordinance awarding a franchise hereunder.
      (2)   Such receiver or trustee, within said 120 days shall have executed
an agreement, duly approved by the court having jurisdiction over same, whereby
such receiver or trustee assumes and agrees to be bound by each and every
provision of this chapter and the agreement and ordinance awarding a franchise
hereunder.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.27 BOOKS AND RECORDS OF THE FRANCHISEE.
   (A)   The franchisee shall maintain an office in Jefferson County for so
long as it continues to operate the cable communications system or any portion
thereof and hereby designates such offices as the place where all notices,
directions, orders, and requests may be served or delivered under this chapter.
The City Council shall be notified of the location of such office or any change
thereof.
   (B)   The franchisee shall keep complete and accurate books of account and
records of its business and operations in connection with any franchise granted
under this chapter.
   (C)   The City Council and its representatives shall have access to all
books of account and records of the franchisee for the purpose of ascertaining
the correctness of any and all reports and may examine its officers and
employees in respect thereto.
   (D)   Any false entry in the books of account or records submitted to the
City Council and its representatives to a material fact, knowingly made by the
franchisee, shall constitute a breach of a material provision of this chapter
and any franchise agreement or ordinance hereunder, for which the remedies
provided in this chapter may be invoked.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.28 NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   It shall be the policy of the City Council to liberally amend any franchise
of its own volition or upon application of a franchisee, after public hearing,
when necessary to require or enable a franchisee to take advantage of any
developments in the field of transmission of television and radio signals which
would afford the franchisee an opportunity to more effectively, efficiently or
economically serve its customers so that at all times the cable communications
system shall be no less advanced than any other system of comparable size,
excepting only systems which are experimental, pilot or demonstration.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.29 TIME OF ESSENCE.
   Whenever this chapter, or any ordinance or agreement awarding a franchise
hereunder, shall set forth any time for any act to be performed by or on behalf
of a franchisee, such time shall deemed of the essence, and any failure of a
franchisee to perform within the time set forth shall constitute a material
breach of the terms of this chapter and shall entitle the City Council to
invoke all penalties and remedies prescribed in this chapter as well as all
other legal or equitable remedies available to the city.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.30 FRANCHISEE NOT TO CONTEST VALIDITY OF FRANCHISE OR REGULATIONS.
   By acceptance of any franchise hereunder, a franchisee covenants and agrees
that it will not at any time or in any manner or proceeding set up any term or
condition of this chapter of any ordinance or agreement awarding a franchise
hereunder as unreasonable, arbitrary, voidable or void, or that the City
Council had not the power or authority to make such term or condition, but
shall be required to accept the validity of same in their entirely.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.31 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate or to carry
on the business of distributing to any persons in the incorporated areas of the
city, any television, radio or non-broadcast signals by means of a cable
communications system unless a franchise therefore has first been obtained from
the City Council and unless such franchise is in full force and effect.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install or maintain
within any public street in the incorporated areas of the city, any television,
radio or non-broadcast signals through a cable communications system, unless a
franchise authorizing such use of such street or property or area has first
been obtained from the City Council and unless such franchise is in full force
and effect.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make any
unauthorized connection whether physically, electrically, acoustically,
inductively or otherwise, with any part of a franchised cable communications
system within the incorporated areas of the city, for the purpose of taking or
receiving television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs, sound, or
other non-broadcast signals.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make any
unauthorized connection whether physically, electrically, acoustically,
inductively or otherwise, with any part of a franchised cable communications
system within the incorporated areas of the city, for the purpose of enabling
himself or others to receive any television signal, radio signal, picture,
programs, sound, or other signals without payment to the owner of said system.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner,
to willfully tamper with, remove or injure any cables, wire or equipment used
in any cable communications system.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.32 REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances conflicting with this chapter are
hereby repealed insofar as the same affect this chapter.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.33 MISCELLANEOUS.
   If at any time during the existence of the franchise herein established the
franchisee is also a provider of CATV services to another area of Jefferson
County, Kentucky (including any other city therein), and more favorable rates
or terms are provided to such area, any increased franchise fees, or if the
service to such area utilizes more advanced technology or a greater number of
channels, such favorable terms, fees, or services shall be extended to the city
within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person failing to comply with the provisions of §
115.15 or §
115.31 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by fine of not
than $50 nor more than $250 or by imprisonment except that a corporation shall
be punished by fine of not less than $100 nor more than $5,000. Each day that a
person violates or fails to comply with the terms of §
115.15 or §
115.31 shall constitute a separate offense under this chapter.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 12-17-92; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 5-20-93)
CHAPTER 116: BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
Section
   
116.01   Imposition of tax
   
116.02   Tax due
   
116.03   Lien imposed
   
116.04   Use of tax
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed on all financial institutions as defined in KRS
Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city for the 2011 tax
year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.000250 on all
deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136, maintained by such financial
institutions.
(Ord. 96-04, passed 11--96; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-24-11)
§ 116.02 TAX DUE.
   For all tax years subsequent to the 2011 tax year, the following timetable
is hereby established: the city will issue tax bills to financial institutions
no later than December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be due with a
2% discount by December 31 of each year, or without the discount by January 31
of each year.
(Ord. 96-04, passed 11--96; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-24-11) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03 LIEN IMPOSED.
   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject to
the tax imposed by these sections, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
(Ord. 96-04, passed 11--96; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-24-11)
§ 116.04 USE OF TAX.
   All money collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid directly into
the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures
as determined by the City Commission.
(Ord. 96-04, passed 11--96; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-24-11)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   All taxes due in accordance with this chapter which are not paid before
January 31, for all subsequent tax years, shall be deemed delinquent and shall
be subject to a penalty of 10% and shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per
annum.
(Ord. 96-04, passed 11--96; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-24-11)
CHAPTER 117: HOME OCCUPATIONS
Section
   
117.01   Definition
   
117.02   Regulations
   
117.03   License fees
   
117.04   Abatement procedure
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITION.
   “Home Occupation” shall be defined as a regular accessory use of a dwelling
unit for gainful employment involving the provision or sales of goods and/or
services, conducted entirely within the dwelling unit, carried on by a resident
who lives in the dwelling. The use must clearly be incidental and secondary to
the use of the dwelling for residential purposes and does not change the
character thereof or adversely affect the uses permitted in the residential
district in which it is a part. In general, a home occupation is an accessory
use so located and conducted that the average neighbor would not be aware of
its existence. This includes no advertising or any other display which will
indicate from the exterior that the building is being used for any purpose
other than that of a dwelling, there shall be no retail sales on the premises,
no more than 10% of the floor area (basement and second floor included, not
including the garage or yard) is used, and no mechanical equipment is used
except such as is permissible for purely domestic purposes.
   The foregoing definition shall supersede the definition contained in the
Louisville Metro Land Development Code with respect to its application to the
City of Hurstbourne.
(Ord. 07-05, passed 12-11-07)
§ 117.02 REGULATIONS.
   Note: The following regulations shall supersede those contained in the
Louisville Metro Land Development Code 4.4.5 A. through 4.4.5 K, which are
hereby repealed.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section provides for the protection of
public health, safety, and welfare by establishing limits on occupations that
operate within a dwelling unit. This section allows for the establishment of
certain occupations to be carried out from a dwelling unit, which is located on
residentially zoned property. The home occupation can be established provided
it is clearly incidental and secondary in nature to the use and does not change
the character or adversely affect adjacent or nearby residents or the
neighborhood as a whole.
   (B)   Employees. Employees working or meeting at the home occupation site
shall be limited to persons who reside in the dwelling unit except that two
nonresident employees shall be permitted to be at the site at any one time.
   (C)   Exterior Appearance. There shall be no change to the exterior
appearance of the dwelling unit where a home occupation is or will be
operating, and there shall be no evidence of a home occupation from the public-
right-of-way and adjacent properties.
   (D)   Number of Customers, Clients and Pupils Permitted. No more than two
customers (non-resident, clients, pupils, children, and/or babies) shall be
permitted on the site at any one time.
   (E)   Signage. No signage associated with a home occupation shall be
permitted. This includes, but is not limited to, the placement of a business
sign on or near the site.
   (F)   Parking. All parking needed to accommodate all employees and customers
shall be confined to the dwelling driveway only.
   (G)   Permitted Locations and Maximum Size/Area.
      (1)   The operation of home occupations shall be limited to ten percent
of the floor area of the dwelling unit, including the second floor and
basement, but not including the garage or yard.
      (2)   Activities associated with a home occupation are prohibited from
occurring outside of the residence and its accessory structure.
   (H)   Home Occupation License. A home occupation license shall be required
prior to the establishment of any home occupation.
      (1)   License Procedure.
         (a)   The license shall not be transferable and shall not run with the
land; it shall terminate upon sale or transfer of the property to a new owner
or tenant.
         (b)   The license application shall be available through the city and
will be on file in the office of the City Clerk during normal business hours.
         (c)   Only one home occupation will be granted per dwelling unit.
      (2)   License Applications.
         (a)   Existing home occupations shall have a period of six months from
the adoption of this chapter to submit a completed application.
         (b)   Existing home occupations shall be permitted to remain open for
business until their application is reviewed by the Commission.
         (c)   License fees will be waved for applications submitted in the
six-month period.
(Ord. 07-05, passed 12-11-07)
§ 117.03 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   A $100.00 license fee shall be paid with the initial application.
(After the six months grace period).
   (B)   A license renewal fee of $25.00 shall be paid annually on before
January 1st of each subsequent year.
(Ord. 07-05, passed 12-11-07)
§ 117.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any property within the city to permit an unlicensed home
occupation to be operated thereon.
   (B)   Whenever a violation is discovered, the authorized city official shall
give five days written notice to remedy the situation. The notice shall be
mailed to the last known address of the owner of property, as it appears on the
tax assessment rolls and or the business operator, person or persons in control
of the premises at the location where the business exists.
(Ord. 07-05, passed 12-11-07)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal Penalty.
      (1)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of the requirements thereof shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person
who violates the provisions of this chapter or fails to comply with any of the
requirements thereof shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $25.00 nor
more than $100.00. Each day during which such violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense for which a separate fine may be imposed.
      (2)   The owner or tenant of any building or structure, premises or part
thereof, any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who commits,
participates in, or maintains such, shall be in violation of this chapter and
suffer the penalties herein provided.
      (3)   No residence shall be issued a home occupation license if
delinquent taxes exist on the property.
   (B)   Civil Penalty. Any violation of this chapter shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to the minimum fine prescribed
by division (A) above of this section. Such civil penalty may be recovered by
the city in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay
the penalty within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the
violations. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative to or in
conjunction with the criminal penalties authorized in division (A) of this
section. The city is authorized to withhold the issuance of a home occupation
license where the owner or applicant has failed to pay or appeal any civil
penalty assessed.
(Ord. 07-05, passed 12-11-07)
  CHAPTER 118: HOTELS, MOTELS, AND SIMILAR BUSINESSES
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Rental for fewer than 24 hours prohibited
   
118.03   Hotel guest registry
   
118.99   Enforcement and penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this new chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicated or requires a different meaning.
   “HOTEL.” Any public or private space or structure, including but not limited
to, any hotel, motel, inn, bed and breakfast inn, boarding house, lodging
house, or short-term rental offering sleeping accommodations or temporary
lodging in exchange for rent and for a period of less than 30 consecutive days.
Hotel does not include living accommodations provided at any governmental or
nonprofit institution in connection with the functions of that institution.
   “HOUSING VOUCHER.” A voucher, certificate, or coupon for lodging issued
individually or jointly by any agency or authority of the following:
      (1)   The federal government;
      (2)   The Commonwealth of Kentucky or another state;
      (3)   A county;
      (4)   A municipality; or
      (5)   A non-profit entity that issues vouchers, certificates or coupons
for lodging to individuals or families.
   “OPERATOR.” Any person who has the right to rent rooms within the hotel,
whether in the capacity of owner, manager, lessee, franchisee, licensee or in
any other managerial capacity.
   “RENT.” The consideration charged, whether or not received, for the
occupancy of a room in a hotel, whether to be received in money, goods, housing
vouchers, labor or otherwise.
   “ROOM.” Any portion of a hotel which is designed or intended for occupancy
by a person for temporary lodging or sleeping purposes.
(Ord. 22-03, passed 3-22-22)
§ 118.02 RENTAL FOR FEWER THAN 24 HOURS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a hotel, hotel operator or hotel employee to:
      (1)   Charge an hourly rate for a room or to otherwise charge rent for a
room for a period of fewer than 24 hours; or
      (2)   Offer a discount or rebate for early checkout from a room within a
24-hour period.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   The rental or rooms for the holding of conventions or meetings for
the conduct of lawful business;
      (2)   The rental of rooms by patient and/or the patient’s family members
accessing outpatient care at a medical facility;
      (3)   The rental of rooms to any person with a valid housing voucher; or
      (4)   The rental of rooms for air transit or vehicle transit layovers.
(Ord. 22-03, passed 3-22-22) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.03 HOTEL GUEST REGISTRY.
   (A)   Every hotel operator shall keep a record of all rental agreements
between the hotel or motel, all guests, and their visitors, and make these
records available to the city within a reasonable time upon request. For
purposes of this chapter, the term “RECORD” shall mean the hotel’s electronic
guest registration which stores guest identifying information. In the event the
hotel does not have an electronic guest registration system, the hotel shall
record the guest and any visitor’s information in a paper record or reservation
book. The following information, at a minimum must be recorded at the time of
registration and maintained for a period of no less than one year after the
rental agreement’s termination:
      (1)   The full name, phone number, and home address of each overnight
registered guest;
      (2)   The make, type, and license number of the guest’s vehicle if the
vehicle will be parked on hotel premises;
      (3)   The day, month, year and time of arrival of each guest;
      (4)   The number or other identifying symbol of the location of the room
rented or assigned each guest;
      (5)   The date that guest is scheduled to depart;
      (6)   The rate charged and amount collected for rental of the room
assigned to each guest;
      (7)   The method of payment for each room;
      (8)   The full name of the person checking in the guest; and
      (9)   Copy of a state or federal photo ID.
   (B)   All information required to be procured and kept pursuant to this
chapter shall be provided to any federal, state, or local law enforcement
officers, including Code Enforcement Officers, upon demand, and in no event
later than 24 hours after demand by the officer and representation by said
officer that a reasonable suspicion exists that such information is relevant to
a then-pending investigation or inquiry, criminal or otherwise. Nothing in this
requirement shall be construed as giving any such officer a greater right or
license to enter a room or invade privacy than the officer than shall otherwise
possess as a matter of law, probable cause, constitutional law, statutory
right, or warrant.
(Ord. 22-03, passed 3-22-22) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.99 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provision of this chapter shall be subject
to citation issued by any law enforcement officer and/or Code Enforcement
Officer. Violations shall be deemed a civil offense. Citations shall be
enforced through the Code Enforcement Board pursuant to
Chapter 40  of this code.
   (B)   The civil fine for non-compliance shall be as follows: Fine in an
amount no less than $100 per day and no more than $500 per day. Each day of
non-compliance will constitute the imposition of per day fine for each day’s
violation, up to the following maximums. On first violation, the maximum total
fine is $1,000. On a second violation that occurs within 12 months of the first
violation, the maximum total fine for each person cited is $3,000. On a third
violation that occurs within 12 months of the first violation, the maximum
total fine shall be $5,000.
(Ord. 22-03, passed 3-22-22)
CHAPTER 119: CANNABIS BUSINESSES
Section
   
119.01   Cannabis businesses
§ 119.01 CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   The City Commission accepts that the definitions within KRS 218B.010
are hereby adopted as if set out herein and as relevant to this chapter.
   (B)   All cannabis businesses are hereby prohibited from operating within
the city limits.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 8-27-24)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
         
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
         
131.   FAMILY OFFENSES
         
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
         
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
         
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
         
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND JUSTICE
         
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
         
137.   SEXUAL OFFENSES
         
138.   INCHOATE OFFENSES
         
139.   GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against persons. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                        KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
ASSAULT                                    
   First degree             508.010     B felony
   Second degree            508.020     C felony
   Third degree             508.025     D felony
   Fourth degree            508.030     A misdemeanor
   Under emotional disturban508.040     B misdemeanor or D felony
CRIMINAL ABUSE                             
   First degree             508.100     C felony
   Second degree            508.110     D felony
   Third degree             508.120     A misdemeanor
CRIMINAL COERCION              509.080     A misdemeanor
CUSTODIAL INTERFERENCE         509.070     D felony
KIDNAPPING                     509.040     A or B felony; capital offense
MANSLAUGHTER                               
   First degree             507.030     B felony
   Second degree            507.040     C felony
MENACING                       508.050     B misdemeanor
MURDER                         507.020     Capital offense
RECKLESS HOMICIDE              507.050     D felony
TERRORISTIC THREATENING        508.080     A misdemeanor
UNLAWFUL IMPRISONMENT                      
   First degree             509.020     D felony
   Second degree            509.030     A misdemeanor
WANTON ENDANGERMENT                        
   First degree             508.060     D felony
   Second degree            508.070     A misdemeanor
 
   Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 131: FAMILY OFFENSES
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common family offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                           KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
BIGAMY                                            530.010     D felony
CONCEALING BIRTH OF INFANT                        530.030     A misdemeanor
INCEST                                            530.020     C felony
INCOMPETENT PERSON, ENDANGERING WELFARE OF MINORS 530.080     A misdemeanor
   Abandonment of                              530.040     D felony
   Endangering welfare of                      530.060     A misdemeanor
   Unlawful transaction with                               
    First degree                               530.064     A, B, or C felony
    Second degree                              530.065     D felony
    Third degree                               530.070     A misdemeanor
NONSUPPORT                                        530.050     A misdemeanor
NONSUPPORT, FLAGRANT                              530.050     D felony
                                                             
 
   Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against property. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                             KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
ARSON                                           
   Defrauding insurer            513.060     D felony
   First degree                  513.020     A felony
   Second degree                 513.030     B felony
   Third degree                  513.040     D felony
BURGLARY                                        
   First degree                  511.020     B felony
   Second degree                 511.030     C felony
   Third degree                  511.040     D felony
   Possession of burglar's tools 511.050     A misdemeanor
CRIMINAL MISCHIEF                               
   First degree                  512.020     D felony
   Second degree                 512.030     A misdemeanor
CRIMINAL TRESPASS                               
   First degree                  511.060     A misdemeanor
   Second degree                 511.070     B misdemeanor
   Third degree                  511.080     Violation
FORGERY AND RELATED OFFENSES                    
   Criminal simulation           516.110     A misdemeanor
   Forgery                                   
    First degree                 516.020     C felony
    Second degree                516.030     D felony
    Third degree                 516.040     A misdemeanor
   Possession of forged instrumen            
    First degree                 516.050     C felony
    Second degree                516.060     D felony
    Third degree                 516.070     A misdemeanor
   Possession of forgery device  516.090     D felony
   Using slugs                               
    First degree                 516.120     D felony
    Second degree                516.130     B misdemeanor
LITTERING, CRIMINAL                 512.070     A misdemeanor
NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES                              
   Criminal possession of        512.060     B misdemeanor
   Criminal use of               512.050     B misdemeanor
POSTING ADVERTISEMENTS UNLAWFULLY   512.080     Violation
ROBBERY                                         
   First degree                  515.020     B felony
   Second degree                 515.030     C felony
THEFT AND RELATED OFFENSES                      
   Device for theft of telephone 514.065     A misdemeanor or D felony
services
   Obscuring identity of machine 514.120     A misdemeanor or C or D felony
   Possession of stolen mail     514.150     D felony
   Receiving stolen property     514.110     A misdemeanor or A, B, C, or D
                                                felony
   Theft by deception            514.040     A misdemeanor or C or D felony
   Theft by extortion            514.080     A misdemeanor or C or D felony
   Theft by failure to make      514.070     A misdemeanor or C or D felony
disposition
   Theft by unlawful taking      514.030     A misdemeanor or A, B, C, or D
                                                felony
   Theft of labor                514.090     A misdemeanor or C or D felony
   Theft of mail matter          514.140     D felony
   Theft of property             514.050     A misdemeanor or C or D felony
   Theft of services             514.060     A misdemeanor or C or D felony
   Unauthorized use of vehicle   514.100     A misdemeanor or D felony
                                               
 
   Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public morals. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                  KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
PORNOGRAPHY                                          
   Advertising obscene material       531.050     B misdemeanor
   Distribution                                   
    Distribution of obscene matter    531.020     A or B misdemeanor
    Distribution to minor             531.030     A misdemeanor or D felony
    Using minors to distribute        531.040     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Portrayal of sexual performance by             
minor
    Advertising material containing   531.360     A misdemeanor
    Distributing matter containing    531.340     A misdemeanor or D felony
    Promoting sale of matter containin531.350     A misdemeanor; C or D
                                                     felony
    Using minors to distribute such   531.370     C or D felony
matter
   Promoting sale of obscenity        531.060     A or B misdemeanor; D
                                                     felony
   Sexual performance by minor                    
    Promotion of                      531.320     A, B, or C felony
    Use of minor                      531.310     A, B, or C felony
PROSTITUTION OFFENSES                                
   Loitering for prostitution purposes529.080     Violation or B misdemeanor
   Permitting prostitution            529.070     B misdemeanor
   Promoting prostitution             529.040     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Prostitution                       529.020     B misdemeanor
                                                    
 
   Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common gambling offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                   KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
CONSPIRACY TO PROMOTE GAMBLING            528.040     D felony
HORSE RACES, MESSENGER BETTING PROHIBITED 528.110     A misdemeanor
PARI-MUTUEL WAGERING                      558.120     A misdemeanor
PERMITTING GAMBLING                       528.070     B misdemeanor
POSSESSION OF GAMBLING DEVICE             528.080     A misdemeanor
POSSESSION OF GAMBLING RECORDS                        
First degree                              528.050     D felony
Second degree                             528.060     A misdemeanor
PROMOTING GAMBLING                                    
   First degree                        528.020     D felony
   Second degree                       528.030     A misdemeanor
                                                     
 
   Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND JUSTICE
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public administration
and justice. These citations are intended only as convenient references for
enforcement officers in citing offenders under state law. It is not the
intention of the municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this
code of ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by
reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                    KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
BRIBERY AND RELATED OFFENSES                           
   Bribery of public servant            521.020     D felony
   Receiving unlawful compensation      521.040     A misdemeanor
   Soliciting unlawful compensation     521.030     B misdemeanor
ESCAPE AND RELATED OFFENSES                            
   Bail jumping                                     
    First degree                        520.070     D felony
    Second degree                       520.080     A misdemeanor
   Escape                                           
    First degree                        520.020     C felony
    Second degree                       520.030     D felony
    Third degree                        520.040     B misdemeanor
   Hindering prosecution or apprehension            
    First degree                        520.120     D felony
    Second degree                       520.130     A misdemeanor
   Promoting contraband                             
    First degree                        520.050     D felony
    Second degree                       520.060     A misdemeanor
   Resisting arrest                     520.090     A misdemeanor
   Resisting order to stop motor vehicle520.100     A misdemeanor
JUDICIAL ADMINISTRATION, INTERFERENCE WITH             
   Bribe receiving by juror             524.070     D felony
   Bribe receiving by witness           524.030     D felony
   Bribing a juror                      524.060     D felony
   Bribing a witness                    524.020     D felony
   Harassing a witness                  524.045     A misdemeanor
   Intimidating a judicial officer      524.120     D felony
   Intimidating a juror                 524.080     D felony
   Intimidating a witness               524.040     D felony
   Jury tampering                       524.090     A misdemeanor
   Retaliating against a witness        524.055     D felony
   Simulating legal process             524.110     B misdemeanor
   Tampering with physical evidence     524.100     D felony
   Tampering with a witness             524.050     A misdemeanor
   Unlawful practice of law             524.130     B misdemeanor
PERJURY AND RELATED OFFENSES                           
   False swearing                       523.040     B misdemeanor
   Perjury                                          
    First degree                     523.020     D felony
    Second degree                       523.030     A misdemeanor
   Unsworn falsification to authorities 523.100     B misdemeanor
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, OBSTRUCTION OF                  
   Compounding a crime                  519.030     A misdemeanor
   Falsely reporting an incident        519.040     A misdemeanor
   Impersonating a public servant       519.050     A misdemeanor
   Obstructing governmental operations  519.020     A misdemeanor
   Tampering with public records        519.060     A misdemeanor
PUBLIC OFFICE, ABUSE OF                                
   Misuse of confidential information   522.040     D felony
   Official misconduct                              
    First degree                        522.020     A misdemeanor
    Second degree                       522.030     B misdemeanor
                                                      
 
   Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public order. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                  KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
ABUSE OF CORPSE                          525.120     A misdemeanor or D felony
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS                                   
   First degree                       525.125     D felony
   Second degree                      525.130     A misdemeanor
DESECRATION OF VENERATED OBJECTS                     
   First degree                       525.105     D felony
   Second degree                      525.110     A misdemeanor
DISORDERLY CONDUCT                       525.060     B misdemeanor
DISRUPTING MEETINGS OR PROCESSIONS       525.150     B misdemeanor
EAVESDROPPING AND RELATED OFFENSES                   
   Divulging illegally obtained       526.060     A misdemeanor
information
   Eavesdropping                      526.020     D felony
   Installing eavesdropping device    526.030     D felony
   Possessing eavesdropping device    526.040     A misdemeanor
   Tampering with private communicatio526.050     A misdemeanor
FAILURE TO DISPERSE                      525.160     B misdemeanor
FIREARMS AND WEAPONS                                 
(Editor's note: KRS 65.870 prohibits any city from regulating the transfer,
ownership, possession, carrying, or transportation of firearms, ammunition, or
components of firearms or combinations thereof.)
HARASSING COMMUNICATIONS                 525.080     B misdemeanor
HARASSMENT                               525.070     Violation or B misdemeanor
INCITING TO RIOT                         525.040     A misdemeanor
INTERFERENCE WITH A FUNERAL              525.155     B misdemeanor
LOITERING                                525.090     Violation
OBSTRUCTING HIGHWAY OR PUBLIC PASSAGE    525.140     B misdemeanor
PUBLIC INTOXICATION                      525.100     B misdemeanor
RIOT                                                 
   First degree                       525.020     D felony
   Second degree                      525.030     A misdemeanor
UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY                        525.050     B misdemeanor
                                                    
 
   Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 137: SEXUAL OFFENSES
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common sexual offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE           KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
INDECENT EXPOSURE 510.150     B misdemeanor
RAPE                          
   First degree510.040     A or B felony
   Second degre510.050     C felony
   Third degree510.060     D felony
SEXUAL ABUSE                  
   First degree510.110     C or D felony
   Second degre510.120     A misdemeanor
   Third degree510.130     B misdemeanor
SEXUAL MISCONDUCT 510.140     A misdemeanor
SODOMY                        
   First degree510.070     A or B felony
   Second degre510.080     C felony
   Third degree510.090     D felony
   Fourth degre510.100     A misdemeanor
                             
 
   Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 138: INCHOATE OFFENSES
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common inchoate offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
 
OFFENSE                     KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
CRIMINAL ATTEMPT            506.010     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY         506.040     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
CRIMINAL FACILITATION       506.080     A or B misdemeanor; D felony
CRIMINAL SOLICITATION       506.030     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
ENGAGING IN ORGANIZED CRIME 506.120     B or C felony
                                       
 
   Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 139: GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter is included for informational purposes only. The provisions of
this chapter are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Section
   
139.01   Fines for misdemeanors and violations
   
139.02   Sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
   
139.03   Fines for felonies
   
139.04   Sentence of imprisonment for felony
§ 139.01 FINES FOR MISDEMEANORS AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Fines and imprisonment for misdemeanors shall not be mutually
exclusive. In any case where imprisonment is authorized a fine may be levied in
addition to the imprisonment or a fine may be levied as an alternative to
imprisonment. Similarly, a fine may be levied in lieu of imprisonment. Whether
the fine is to be levied as the sole penalty or as an additional or alternative
penalty shall be in the discretion of the judge or jury as the case may be. If
the trial is by jury, the jury shall have the discretion. This rule shall apply
in all cases where a fine is not the exclusive penalty authorized by law.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided for an offense defined outside this
title, a person who has been convicted of any offense other than a felony shall
be sentenced, in addition to any other punishment imposed upon him, to pay a
fine in an amount not to exceed:
      (1)   For a Class A misdemeanor, $500; or
      (2)   For a Class B misdemeanor, $250; or
      (3)   For a violation, $250.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a corporation.
   (D)   Fines required by this section shall not be imposed upon any person
determined by the court to be indigent pursuant to KRS Chapter 31.
(KRS 534.040)
§ 139.02 SENTENCE OF IMPRISONMENT FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   A sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall be a definite term and
shall be fixed within the following maximum limitations:
   (A)   For a Class A misdemeanor, the term shall not exceed 12 months; and
   (B)   For a Class B misdemeanor, the term shall not exceed 90 days.
(KRS 532.090)
§ 139.03 FINES FOR FELONIES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided for an offense defined outside this
title, a person who has been convicted of any felony shall, in addition to any
other punishment imposed upon him be sentenced to pay a fine in an amount not
less than $1,000 and not greater than $10,000 or double his gain from
commission of the offense, whichever is the greater.
   (B)   In determining the amount and method of paying a fine for commission
of a felony, the court shall consider, among others, the following factors:
      (1)   The defendant's ability to pay the amount of the fine;
      (2)   The hardship likely to be imposed on the defendant's dependents by
the amount of the fine and the time and method of paying it;
      (3)   The impact the amount of the fine will have on the defendant's
ability to make reparation or restitution to the victim; and
      (4)   The amount of the defendant's gain, if any, derived from the
commission of the offense.
   (C)   When a defendant is convicted of two or more felonies committed
through a single act and is sentenced to fines pursuant to division (A) above,
the aggregate amount of such fines shall not exceed $10,000 or double the
amount of the defendant's gain from commission of the offenses, whichever is
the greater.
   (D)   Fines required by this section shall not be imposed upon any person
determined by the court to be indigent pursuant to KRS Chapter 31.
   (E)   This section does not apply to a corporation.
(KRS 534.030)
§ 139.04 SENTENCE OF IMPRISONMENT FOR FELONY.
   (A)   A sentence of imprisonment for a felony shall be an indeterminate
sentence, the maximum of which shall be fixed within the limits provided by
division (B) below, and subject to modification by the trial judge pursuant to
KRS 532.070.
(KRS 532.060(1))
   (B)    Unless otherwise provided by law, the authorized maximum terms of
imprisonment for felonies are:
      (1)      For a Class A felony, not less than 20 years nor more than 50
years, or life imprisonment;
      (2)      For a Class B felony, not less than 10 years nor more than 20
years;
      (3)   For a Class C felony, not less than 5 years nor more than 10 years;
and
      (4)   For a Class D felony, not less than one year nor more than 5 years.
(KRS 532.060(2))
   (C)   The actual time of release within the maximum established by division
(A) above, or as modified pursuant to KRS 532.070, shall be determined under
procedures established elsewhere by law.
(KRS 532.060(5))
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
         
152.   ZONING
         
153.   SIGN REGULATIONS
         
154.   BINDING ELEMENTS
         
155. SMALL CELLULAR TOWER SITES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Adoption of Standard Codes
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code; enforcement agents
   
150.02   Application
Letter of Compliance/Approval Requirements; Building Design and Use
Restrictions
   
150.20   Building and demolition permits, letters of compliance and approval
   
150.21   Design standards
   
150.22   Prohibited uses
   
150.23   Waiver
   
150.24   Requirements for solar installations
 
   
150.99   Penalty
ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE; ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Chapter 7, Title 815 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as
contained in Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations,
together with any amendments, are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth in this code of ordinances. Copies of the above codes and any amendments
thereto shall be placed on file in the office of the City Clerk/City
Administrative Officer where they shall be available for public inspection
during normal business hours.
(Ord. 85-5, passed 12-13-85)
   (B)   The Jefferson County Building Inspector shall be designated as the
local enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code.
   (C)   The State Plumbing Inspector is charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of the Kentucky Plumbing Code.
   Penalty, see §
150.99
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of Kentucky Standards of Safety; enforcement and penalty, see §§
93.22 and
93.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code is extended to all single-family
dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
(Ord. 85-5, passed 12-13-85)
LETTER OF COMPLIANCE/APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS; BUILDING DESIGN AND USE
RESTRICTIONS
§ 150.20 BUILDING AND DEMOLITION PERMITS, LETTERS OF COMPLIANCE AND APPROVAL.
   (A)    Prior to the issuance of any building or demolition permit from Metro
Louisville, the City of Hurstbourne shall be given the opportunity to review
said permit application and plans to determine if the project (and its site) is
in compliance with this building and design ordinance. The City shall evidence
the determination as to whether the project complies with the City’s building
and design ordinance by issuance of a Letter of Compliance Notification form.
It is a responsibility of the resident to make application and provide all
needed information for the issuance of the letter of compliance. The City
Commission will make all decisions on Letters of Compliance, following review
and recommendation from the supervising Commissioner and the City
Administrative Officer under Chapter 35 of the Codified Ordinances.
   (B)   Activities, which would not trigger an application to Metro Louisville
for a building or demolition permit, through Metro Louisville and the Kentucky
Building Code, may nevertheless be subject to prior review by the City of
Hurstbourne. Those activities requiring prior review and a letter of approval
include any structure not attached to the house, fence and wall installations
and extensions. The City shall determine whether the project complies with this
ordinance by issuance of a Letter of Approval form. It is a responsibility of
the resident to make application and provide all needed information for the
issuance of the letter of approval, prior to construction.
   (C)   The City of Hurstbourne, through its City Administrative Officer, or
other person designated to enforce city ordinances by the City Commission, has
the right to enter private property for the purpose of inspecting for
compliance with this ordinance and has the authority to enforce this ordinance.
Letter of compliance and letter of approval authority are good for only one
year from issuance. If the project is not complete at the expiration of one
year, the letter of compliance and/or letter of approval are invalid and the
applicant must reapply.
   (D) The purpose of the letter of compliance process is compliance with these
design guidelines, which in no way attempts to regulate or inspect issues
relating to the Building Code of Kentucky, which is the responsibility of Metro
Louisville. This subchapter does not require the City of Hurstbourne to conduct
inspections required by the Kentucky Building Code.
(Ord. 09-07, passed 8-11-09; Am. Ord. 25-02, passed 4-22-25)
§ 150.21 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   All new exterior construction in all zoning districts R-1 through R-5
(including any accessory structures), shall have building architecture in
keeping with the general character of the existing architecture of the
properties which are immediately adjacent to the subject property, in terms of
style, type of materials, design and appearance, as is more particularly set
out herein:
      (1)   Roof lines, pitches and materials must be in keeping to the
character of the neighborhood, in terms of style, type of material, height and
design. Roof lines on new additions shall never be higher than the principal
structure.
      (2)   Exterior components must be brick or stone, with other material
such as cement board, composite products and solid wood used only for accents
that do not exceed 30% of any individual facade and the term facade includes
the total surface of one side or a building for all levels. No vinyl siding is
permitted anywhere on the exterior of a residential unit.
      (3)   Residential drives or driveways shall be paved with concrete,
asphalt, or brick pavers, and there shall be only one driveway per residence.
Circular driveways are permitted, but are approved on a case to case basis by
the City Commission, depending on the size of the circular driveway in
proportion to the total lot size.
      (4)   All fence and wall materials must match the general style and
materials of the primary residence and those already existing in the
neighborhood. Fence height is limited to six feet in height for all property
zoned R-1 through R-5. The finished side of any fence must face adjacent
property or have two finished faces. Fence material may be wood that is graded
as Number 1 Common or better, metal or plastic, which must be of good quality.
Fences and walls must not be installed in such a way as to obstruct drainage.
Fences consisting of chain link, electric fencing, barbed wire, square fence
sections, or “chicken wire” are not permitted in the city.
      (5)   No detached garages are allowed. Attachment can be achieved via a
breezeway structure attached to the primary structure on the lot, as long as
the city has approved said attachment in writing. The entrance of said garage
cannot be directly facing the front lot line and must be off-set and said
orientation must be approved by the city and must be at an angle of 45 degrees
off-set from the street. Garages shall match the general style and materials of
the primary structures on the lots and must be in keeping with the general
character of the neighborhood, in terms of style, type of material and design.
No garage may be higher than the top roofline of the primary structure on the
lot.
         (a)   Size. One car garages shall not exceed 16 feet x 24 feet; two
car garages shall not exceed 24 feet x 24 feet; three car garages shall not
exceed 36 feet x 24 feet; four car garages shall not exceed 48 feet x 24 feet;
five car garages shall not exceed 60 feet x 24 feet; and six car garages shall
not exceed 70 feet x 24 feet.
      (6)   Recreational and ornamental structures such as pool houses, hot tub
enclosures, outdoor hardscape areas, tennis courts, recreational structures,
outdoor dining areas, in-ground swimming pools and other outdoor entertainment
areas are allowed, if the improvements are consistent with the quality of
construction, style, type of materials, design, and appearance of existing
similar structures in the neighborhood. If these additions include a roof, they
must be attached to the principal structure. Gazebos are permitted in the rear
yard of any residence. All projects must be compliant with the Land Development
Code. This includes any temporary or permanent covering over athletic courts.
Any perimeter fencing (excluding fencing around tennis, pickleball, basketball,
and other athletic sporting courts) must comply with the fencing regulations
outlined in division (A)(4).
      (7)   Decks extending from the second story of a residential unit may
require siding to be installed from the edge of the bottom of the railing to
the ground level. This siding shall keep with the general character of the
existing architecture of the adjacent properties and/or other substantially
similar structures and sites in the City, in terms of style, type of materials,
design, and appearance. The following materials are prohibited from being
considered as siding under these guidelines: vinyl siding, transparent or
translucent material such as netting, screens, tarps, and other similar
material.
      (8)   Appropriate, minimum landscaping is required on all residential
lots. The landscaping must be in keeping with the general character of the
neighborhood.
      (9)   No applicant who is requesting a Letter of Compliance can receive
approval if the applicant's property is otherwise in violation of the City's
nuisance ordinance or if the property owner owes outstanding taxes or fees to
the City of Hurstbourne.
      (10)   Shade structures that are fixed, permanent additions are permitted
in the rear yard of any residence, once approved through the city's building
permit process. Shade structures include, but are not limited to, retractable
awnings, sails, and umbrellas.
      (11)   Play structures that are 120 square feet or less are permitted in
the rear yard of any residence, once approved through the city’s building
permit process. Play structures must be open air structures, consisting of
traditional play equipment such as slides, monkey bars, swings, and other
generally accepted equipment in similar fashion. Enclosed play structures are
prohibited.
      (12)   Athletic lighting shall be permitted for use on athletic courts as
they are permitted in division (A)(6), and all athletic lighting projects shall
be compliant with the Land Development Code.
      (13)   Greenhouses and residential utility buildings are prohibited from
use on any residential lot. Residential utility buildings are defined as any
open air or enclosed structure used for the storage of materials and equipment
incidental to the residential use of the property.
      (14)   Exterior painting of any residential structure must be approved
through the city's building permit process if the paint color is different from
what is currently on the structure, or if no paint exists on the structure.
Paint swatches depicting the color must accompany the building permit. The city
may ask to review a painted sample of the structure in person before approving
any color. The city reserves the right to refuse any paint color that it
determines is not keeping within the general aesthetic of the neighborhood. Any
denial of a paint color will be made in writing (written or electronic) to the
applicant. The applicant will have 14 calendar days from issuance of denial to
appeal the decision to the City Commission. A request for appeal must be
received in writing (written or electronic) to Hurstbourne City Hall by the end
of the 14th day. The appeal will be heard at the next regularly scheduled
Commission Meeting following the notice of appeal.
      (15)   If any of the proposed construction disturbance takes place within
five feet of an adjacent property line, the City shall require a staked survey
to be completed as part of the application, or the applicant may submit written
proof that the adjacent property owner(s) has waived the staked survey
requirement.
      (16)   The City Commission understands that due to site-specific
conditions, imposition of these standards may be inappropriate, or work an
undue hardship. Therefore, the City Commission may waive any part of these
standards on a case-by-case basis, but only for good cause shown by the
property owner. Any structures that have been erected prior to the effective
date of this division (A) shall be allowed to remain as grandfathered use. Any
expansion, substantial construction, or reconstruction, moving, or replacement
shall render such structure's grandfather status ineffective.
   (B)   No applicant who is requesting a letter of compliance or a letter of
approval can receive such approval if the applicant’s property is otherwise in
violation of the city’s ordinances, or owes outstanding taxes or fees to the
city.
   (C)   Any construction or re-construction in the city at the locations
described below, must conform to the following minimum square footages from the
various deeds of restrictions set forth below:
      (1)   Hurstbourne Section 1A
         (a)    A one story residential structure with an attached garage shall
not contain less than 1,500 square feet of ground floor area, exclusive of
garage;
         (b)   A one and one-half story residential structure shall contain not
less than 1,200 square feet of ground floor area, exclusive of the garage;
         (c)   A tri-level residential structure shall contain not less than
1,800 square feet of floor area (not limited to the ground floor), exclusive of
the garage;
         (d)   A two-story residential structure shall contain a ground floor
area of not less than 1,000 square feet, exclusive of the garage;
- Buckingham Terrace      301, 302, 303, 304, 305, 306, 307, 308, 309, 310,
                          311, 312, 313, 314
- Camberley Drive         8200, 8201, 8202, 8203, 8204, 8205, 8206, 8207, 8208,
                          8209, 8210, 8211, 8212,8213, 8214, 8215
- Canton Court            302, 303, 304, 305
- Cheltenham Circle       8502, 8503, 8504, 8505, 8506, 8507, 8508, 8510
- Liverton Court          202, 203, 205
- Liverton Lane           100, 101, 102
                          100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 201, 202, 203, 204, 205,
- Lyndon Lane, South      206, 207, 208, 209, 210, 211, 212, 213, 214, 215,
                          216, 217, 218, 219, 220, 300, 301, 302, 303, 304,
                          305, 306, 308, 310, 312
                          8201, 8203, 8204, 8205, 8206, 8207, 8209, 8210, 8211,
                          8212, 8213, 8214, 8215, 8217, 8218, 8219, 8220, 8221,
- Nottingham Parkway      8222, 8223, 8224, 8226, 8300, 8302, 8303, 8304, 8306,
                          8308, 8309, 8311, 8312, 8313, 8314, 8315, 8316, 8401,
                          8402, 8403, 8404, 8405, 8406, 8407, 8409, 8411, 8500,
                          8501, 8502, 8503
- Paddington Court        302, 303, 304
                          8200, 8202, 8203, 8204, 8205, 8206, 8207, 8208, 8209,
- Paddington Drive        8210, 8211, 8212, 8213, 8214, 8215, 8216, 8217, 8219,
                          8223, 8224, 8225
- Shelbyville Road        8302
- Tillman Road            8200, 8202, 8204
- Whipps Mill Road, South 100, 101, 103, 104, 105, 107, 108, 109, 110, 112,
                          114, 115
- Wimborne Way            8408, 8410, 8412, 8414, 8502
 
      (2)   Hurstbourne Section 1B
- Chadwick Court       8800, 8802, 8803, 8804, 8805, 8806, 8807
- Chadwick Road, South 202, 204, 205, 206, 207, 208, 209, 210, 300, 302, 303,
                       305, 306, 307, 308
- Cheltenham Circle    8511, 8512, 8513, 8515, 8517, 8518, 8520, 8522
- Cheltenham Court     8600, 8601, 8602, 8603, 8604, 8605, 8606, 8607, 8608,
                       8609, 8610
- Creighton Court      8700, 8701, 8702, 8703, 8704, 8705, 8706, 8707, 8708,
                       8709, 8710
- Edinburgh Place      400, 401, 402, 403, 404, 405, 406, 407, 408
- Loftingham Court     8600, 8601, 8602, 8603, 8604, 8605, 8606, 8607, 8608,
                       8609, 8610
                       8504, 8505, 8506, 8507, 8508, 8509, 8510, 8511, 8512,
                       8601, 8603, 8604, 8605, 8606, 8607, 8608, 8609, 8610,
                       8611, 8612, 8613, 8614, 8615, 8616, 8617, 8618, 8619,
- Nottingham Parkway   8620, 8621, 8700, 8701, 8702, 8703, 8704, 8705, 8706,
                       8707, 8708, 8709, 8710, 8800, 8802, 8804, 8805, 8806,
                       8807, 8808, 8809, 8870, 8811, 8812, 8813, 8814, 8815,
                       8900, 8901,8902, 8903, 8904, 8905, 8906, 8907, 8908,
                       8909, 8910, 8911, 9000, 9001, 9002, 9003, 9005
- Oxfordshire Lane     300, 303, 304, 305, 306, 307, 308, 309, 310
- Peterborough Court   9000, 9001, 9002, 9003, 9004
                       8802, 8803, 8804, 8805, 8806, 8807, 8808, 8809, 8810,
- Peterborough Drive   8811, 8812, 8900, 8901, 8902, 8903, 8904, 8905, 8906,
                       8907, 8908, 8909, 9000
- Shelbyville Road     8800
- Storrington Court    8700, 8701, 8702, 8703, 8704, 8705, 8706, 8707, 8708,
                       8709, 8710
                       8504, 8506, 8508, 8510, 8600, 8602, 8604, 8606, 8608,
- Wimborne Way         8610, 8612, 8614, 8700, 8702, 8704, 8706, 8708, 8710,
                       8712, 8714
 
      (3)   Hurstbourne Section 2A Any residential structure built at the
following addresses in section 2B shall contain not less than 2500 sq. ft.
 
                         8800, 8801, 8802, 8803, 8804, 8805, 8806, 8807, 8808,
- Denington Drive        8809, 8810, 8811, 8900, 8901, 8902, 8903, 9002, 9004,
                         9006, 9008, 9010, 9100, 9101, 9102, 9103, 9104, 9105,
                         9106,9107, 9108, 9109, 9111
                         501, 502, 503, 504, 505, 506, 507, 508, 509, 511, 513,
- Leicester Circle       514, 515, 516, 517, 519, 520, 521, 523, 525, 527, 529,
                         530, 531, 532, 533, 534, 535, 536, 537, 539, 541
- Leicester Court        9100, 9101, 9103
                         500, 501, 502, 503, 504, 505, 506, 507, 508, 509, 510,
- Nottingham Parkway     511, 512, 513, 514, 515, 516, 517, 518, 519, 520, 521,
                         522, 523, 524, 525, 526, 527, 528, 529, 531, 600, 602,
                         604, 606, 9110, 9111
- Seaton Springs Court   500,501,502,503
- Seaton Springs Parkway 9000, 9001, 9003, 9005, 9007, 9101, 9103, 9201, 9203,
                         9205, 9207, 9209, 9213, 9300
- Westerham Court        502, 503, 504, 506, 507, 508, 509, 510, 511, 512
 
      (4)   Hurstbourne Section 2B
         (a)    Any residential structure built at the following addresses in
section 2B shall contain not less than 2750 sq. ft.
 
- Cadogan Court 704, 706, 708, 709, 710, 711, 712, 713, 714, 703
 
         (b)   Any residential structure built at the following addresses in
section 2B shall contain not less than 4,000 sq. ft.
 
- Ayrshire Avenue    8901, 8904, 8905, 8906, 8907, 8908, 8910, 8912, 8914, 8916
- Cromwell Hill Road 8900, 8901, 8902, 8903, 8906, 8910, 8914, 8915, 8916,
                     8917, 8918, 8919
                     702, 703, 800, 801, 802, 804, 805, 806, 808, 809, 810,
- Rugby Place        811, 900, 901, 902, 904, 905, 906, 907, 908, 909, 910,
                     911, 912
 
      (5)   Hurstbourne Section 2C Any residential structure built at the
following addresses in section 2C shall contain not less than 2000 sq. ft.
 
- Nottingham Parkway     9007, 9009, 9010, 9011, 9012, 9013, 9100, 9101, 9102,
                         9103, 9104, 9105, 9106, 9107, 9108, 9109
- Seaton Springs Parkway 9202, 9204, 9206
 
      (6)   Hurstbourne Section 3
         (a)   Any residential structure built at the following addresses in
Hurstbourne Section 3 shall contain not less than 2,000 sq. ft. of floor area,
exclusive of a garage and any open porches.
 
- Nottingham Parkway 605, 607, 609, 611, 701, 703, 705, 707, 709, 713, 801
- Parkington Court   9213,9214,803
- Nottingham Parkway 805, 807, 809, 811, 9212, 9213, 9214, 9215
 
         (b)   Any residential structure erected on the following addresses
shall contain not less than 2,250 sq. ft. of floor area, exclusive of a garage
and any open porches.
 
- Nottingham Parkway 808, 900, 902, 904, 906,
- Linn Station Road  9201,9203,9205
- Nottingham Parkway 700, 702, 704, 706, 708, 710, 800, 802, 804, 806
 
         (c)   Any residential structure built at the following addresses shall
contain not less than 2,500 sq. ft. of floor area, exclusive of a garage and
any open porches;
 
- Whitegate Court 9200, 9201, 9203, 9204, 9205, 9207, 9208, 9209, 9211, 9212,
                  9213, 9215, 9217
                  9202, 9204, 9205, 9206, 9208, 9210, 9212, 9213, 9214, 9215,
- Marlboro Circle 9216, 9217, 9218, 9220, 9221, 9222, 9224, 9226, 9227, 9228,
                  9229, 9230, 9232
 
         (d)   A one and one-half story structure shall contain not less than
1,200 sq. ft. of ground floor area exclusive of a garage and open porches; and
         (e)   A two-story structure shall contain a ground floor area of not
less than 1,000 sq. ft., exclusive of a garage and open porches; and
         (f)   At no time shall there by any portion of basement area counted
as living floor area, even in the event of walkout basement.
      (7)   Hurstbourne Section 4
         (a)   Any residential structure erected on any of the following
addresses shall contain not less than 2,500 square feet of area, exclusive of a
garage and any open porches;
 
- Denington Drive  9001, 9003, 9007, 9009, 9011
- Hatherleigh Lane 600, 602, 603, 605, 607, 608, 610, 611, 612, 614, 615, 616,
                   617, 618, 619, 620, 621
- Laughton Lane    9000, 9001, 9005, 9006, 9007, 9008, 9009
 
         (b)   Any one and one-half story residential structure erected on any
lot shall contain not less than 1,400 sq. ft. of ground floor area exclusive of
a garage and open porches;
         (c)   Any two story residential structure erected on any lot shall
contain less than 1,100 sq. ft. of ground floor area exclusive of a garage and
open porches;
         (d)   No portion of basement shall be counted as floor area or ground
floor area, even in the case of a walkout basement.
      (8)   Hurstbourne Section 6
         (a)   Any residential structure erected or placed on any of the
following addresses shall contain not less than 2,000 sq. ft. of floor area,
exclusive of a garage and any open porches;
 
- Colonel Anderson Parkway 1115, 1116, 1117
                           8913, 8914, 8915, 8916, 8917, 8918, 8920, 9000,
                           9002, 9003, 9004, 9005, 9006, 9007, 9008, 9009,
- Linn Station Road        9010, 9011, 9012, 9013, 9014, 9015, 9100, 9101,
                           9102, 9103, 9104, 9105, 9106, 9108, 9109, 9110,
                           9111, 9113
 
         (b)   Any residential structure erected on any of the following
addresses shall contain not less than 3,500 sq. ft. of floor area, exclusive of
a garage and any open porches;
 
- Rugby Place 812, 813, 814, 815, 816, 817, 818, 819, 820, 821, 1102, 1103
- Rugby Court 1102, 1103
 
         (c)   Any residential structure erected on any of the following
addresses shall contain not less than 3,000 sq. ft. of floor area, exclusive of
a garage and any open porches;
 
- Albemarle Court 904, 908, 910, 912, 914, (721), 915, 913, 911, 909, 905, 903
 
         (d)   If a one and one-half story structure is built on any (except
for the above exceptions) addresses it shall contain not less than 1,400 sq.
ft. of ground floor area exclusive of a garage and open porches.
         (e)   If a two story structure is built on any (except for the above
exceptions) address it shall contain a ground floor area of not less than 1,100
sq. ft., exclusive of a garage and open porches.
      (9)   Hurstbourne Section 8-A & B
         (a)   Any residential structure erected on any of the following
addresses shall contain not less than 2,750 sq. ft. of floor area, exclusive of
a garage and any open porches;
 
- Croydon Circle 8314, 8315, 8319, 8321, 8323
- Croydon Court  500, 501, 502, 503, 504
- Salford Way    8311, 8313, 8314, 8315, 8316, 8317
- Salford Court  701, 703
 
         (b)   Any residential structure erected on any of the following
addresses shall contain not less than 2,500 square feet of floor area,
exclusive of a garage and any open porches;
 
                           400, 401, 402, 403, 405, 502, 503, 504, 505, 506,
                           600, 601, 602, 603, 605, 607, 700, 701, 702, 703,
                           704, 705, 706, 707, 708, 709, 710, 711, 712, 715,
                           800, 801, 802, 803, 804, 805, 806, 807, 808, 809,
                           810, 811, 812, 813, 814, 815, 817, 900, 901, 902,
- Colonel Anderson Parkway 903, 904, 905, 906 907, 908, 909, 910, 911, 912,
                           913, 915, 917, 1000, 1001, 1002, 1003, 1004, 1005,
                           1006, 1007, 1008, 1009, 1010, 1011, 1013, 1015,
                           1016, 1017, 1018, 1019, 1021, 1100, 1101, 1102,
                           1103, 1104, 1105, 1106, 1107, 1108, 1109, 1111,
                           1113, 1114, 1115, 1116, 1117
- Croydon Circle           8303, 8305, 8307, 8309, 8311, 8313, 8325, 8327,
                           8329, 8328, 8326, 8324, 8312, 8310, 8308, 8306
- Derbyshire Court         8200, 8201
- Lyndon Lane              403
- Salford Way              8200, 8201, 8302, 8303, 8304, 8305, 8306, 8307,
                           8308, 8309, 8310, 8312
- Cheshire Way             8200, 8201, 8203, 8202, 8303, 8304, 8305, 8307,
                           8309, 8310
- Bedfordshire Road        809, 807, 805, 803, 801, 715, 713, 711, 709
 
         (c)   Any residential structure erected or placed on any of the
following addresses shall contain not less than 2,000 square feet of floor
area, exclusive of a garage and any open porches;
 
- Bedfordshire Road 708, 706, 704, 702, 700, 608, 606, 604, 602, 600, 512, 510,
                    508, 506, 504, 502
 
         (d)   Any one and one-half story residential structure erected on any
lot in said subdivision shall contain not less than 1,400 square feet of ground
floor area exclusive of a garage and open porches; and
         (e)   Any two story residential structure erected on any lot in said
subdivision shall contain not less than 1,100 square feet of ground floor area
exclusive of a garage and open porches.
      (10)   Oxmoor Woods
         (a)   Any residential structure erected or placed on any of the
following addresses shall not contain less than 2700 square feet of floor area,
exclusive of a garage and any open porches;
         (b)   No portion of basement shall be counted as floor area or ground
floor area, even in the case of a walkout basement.
      (11)   Oxmoor Woods Section 1
 
                       8911, 8909, 8907, 8905, 8903, 8901, 8821, 8819, 8817,
- Linn Station Rd      8811, 8809, 8807, 8805, 8803, 8716, 8718, 8720, 8800,
                       8802, 8808, 8810, 8814, 8816, 8818, 8820, 8908, 8910,
                       8812, 8806
- Oxmoor Woods Parkway 1411, 1409, 1407, 1405, 1403, 1307, 1303, 1300, 1302,
                       1304, 1306, 1400, 1402, 1406, 1408, 1301, 1205
- Stockport Road       8700, 8702, 8704, 8706, 8708, 8710, 8712, 8711, 8709,
                       8707, 8705, 8703
- Oldbury Place        8700, 8702, 8703, 8704, 8705, 8706, 8707, 8708, 8709,
                       8710
 
      (12)   Oxmoor Woods Section 2-A & B
 
- Cheffield Drive 8609, 8607, 8605, 8603, 8601, 8513, 8511, 8509, 8508, 8510,
                  8512, 8514, 8516, 8518, 8600, 8602, 8604, 8606, 8608,
- Oldbury Place   8702, 8704, 8706, 8708, 8710, 8709, 8707, 8705, 8703,
 
      (13)   Oxmoor Woods Section 3
 
- Oxmoor Woods Parkway 12101, 0017, 1105, 1101, 1011
- Bedfordshire Road    815, 814
- Blackpool Drive      8610, 8609
 
      (14)   Oxmoor Woods Section 4
 
- Oxmoor Woods Parkway 1009, 1007, 1005, 1003, 1001, 911, 909, 907, 905, 903
 
      (15)   Oxmoor Woods Section 5
 
- Oxmoor Woods Parkway 901, 811, 809, 807, 805, 803, 802, 804, 806, 808, 810,
                       900
 
      (16)   Oxmoor Woods Section 6
 
- Oxmoor Woods Parkway 801, 709, 707, 705, 703, 700, 702, 704, 800
 
      (17)   Oxmoor Woods Estates Any residential structure erected or placed
on any of the following addresses shall not contain less than 3500 square feet
of floor area, exclusive of a garage and any open porches;
 
                  1300, 1302, 1326, 1327, 1325, 1323, 1321, 1319, 1317, 1315,
- Leighton Circle 1313, 1311, 1309, 1307, 1403, 1405, 1407, 1409, 1411, 1412,
                  1410, 1408, 1406, 1404, 1402, 1305, 1303, 1301, 1304, 1326,
                  1320, 1316, 1312, 1308
- Hadleigh Place  1402, 1403, 1404, 1405, 1406, 1407, 1408, 1409, 1410, 1411,
                  1412
 
(Ord. 09-07, passed 8-11-09; Am. Ord. 10-03, passed 9-28-10; Am. Ord. 12-02,
passed 5-22-12; Am. Ord. 25-02, passed 4-22-25)
§ 150.22 PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   No outbuildings, or accessory structures are allowed on any lot in the
city; with the exception that a child's playhouse not larger than 120 square
feet is allowed; as are other types of play structures, such as swing and play
sets. No such play structures are allowed past the front wall of any residence.
No utility connection of any type may be allowed in a child's playhouse.
   (B)   No outside clothes drying lines are allowed on any lot in the city.
   (C)   No window-unit air conditioners are allowed on any lot in the city.
   (D)   No above-ground swimming pools are allowed on any lot in the city,
with the exception that a "kiddy" pool of no more than 100 square feet is
allowed, temporarily. No hot tubs are allowed to be placed beyond the front
wall of the principal structure.
   (E)   No dumpsters (i.e. storage container units designed for waste
materials), not including any of the containers provided by or approved for use
by the city for its regular garbage collection, yard waste and recycling; or
other non-waste temporary storage units may be allowed in the single-family
residential areas of the city, except as set out herein:
      (1)    Temporary storage units and temporary dumpster units shall be
allowed only upon the issuance of a permit by the city. There shall be no fee
for permits.
      (2)   Each permit application must be filled out and signed by the owners
of the lot on which the temporary storage unit is to be located and contain all
relevant contact information for both the owners and the company from which the
unit is to be rented. The permit application shall be accompanied by a drawing
showing where the unit is to be located and whenever possible, the unit must be
located on the lot behind the rear wall of the principal structure and on a
hard surface. The unit cannot be located in any required rear, front or side
yard. If the lot configuration makes it impossible for the storage unit to be
so placed, a case by case review of the placement shall be made by the City
Administrative Officer, or other person designated to enforce City ordinances
as to whether to issue a special permit for another location on the lot, or
adjacent to the lot, given due regard to the public health, safety and
aesthetics.
      (3)   No unit may be used to contain any hazardous material. Any possible
hazardous material must be disclosed to the city at the time the permit
application is made for review by the City Administrative Officer, or other
person designated to enforce city ordinances by the City Commission, prior to
the issuance of any permit.
      (4)   Units must be in good condition, with no significant rust or
deterioration. They cannot be greater than eight feet in height, ten feet in
width and 20 feet in length. No more than two can be placed on any residential
lot at one time. No unit shall be allowed to overflow with material and shall
be dumped as soon as practicable after filling, but in no event may a unit sit
filled for more than seven days. No debris can be left on the ground and on the
lot around the unit and the area around the unit must be kept in a clean and
uncluttered condition.
      (5)   Permits are good for a period of 30 days. At the expiration of the
30-day period, applicants may seek to extend their permits for an additional 30
days by seeking an extension for cause from the city.
      (6)   Exception. In the case of emergencies, such as floods, wind storms,
fires or other acts of God, or man-made disasters, the City Administrative
Officer, or other person designated to enforce city ordinances by the City
Commission shall be allowed to suspend the enforcement of the restrictions as
to dumpsters and temporary storage units as to the city as a whole, or areas of
the city, for a time period appropriate for the community to deal with such
emergency conditions.
(Ord. 09-07, passed 8-11-09)
§ 150.23 WAIVER.
   The City Commission understands that due to site-specific conditions,
imposition of these standards may be inappropriate, or work an undue hardship.
Therefore, the City Commission may waive any part of these standards on a case
by case basis, but only for good cause shown by the property owner.
(Ord. 09-07, passed 8-11-09)
§ 150.24 REQUIREMENTS FOR SOLAR INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Review and application.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to allow the use
of solar energy within the city as a clean, alternative energy source, and to
provide regulations that will protect public health, safety, and welfare.
Therefore, no person shall construct, erect, maintain, extend, or remove a
solar collector or solar energy system in the residentially zoned sections of
the city without compliance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Application. Residential solar installations require a letter of
compliance from the city. An application for a letter of compliance shall
include the following:
         (a)   Applicant shall file with the City Clerk an application on a
form prescribed by the city and pay the filing fee of $300.
         (b)   The application shall include photographs of the property’s
existing conditions, including renderings or catalog cuts of the proposed solar
energy system. A plot/sketch plan to indicate where the solar energy system is
to be installed on the building, including property setbacks and the total
solar collector surface area.
         (c)   For pitched roof-mounted solar systems, the elevation must show
the highest finished height of the system and the height of the finished roof
surface on which it is mounted.
         (d)   For flat roof-mounted solar energy systems, the elevations shall
show the highest finished height of the system and the highest point of the
roof, including any parapets on the building.
   (B)   Design.
      (1)   Design regulations.
         (a)   Ground mounted solar energy systems are prohibited in
residential use districts, only roof mounted collectors are allowed.
         (b)   Any appurtenant equipment shall be set back a minimum of 15 feet
from all property lines and a minimum of 30 feet from all dwellings located on
adjacent lots. Roof-mounted systems shall comply with all building setbacks in
the applicable zoning district and shall not extend beyond the exterior
perimeter of the building on which the system is mounted.
         (c)   Solar collectors shall be flush mounted on pitched roofs. Solar
collectors may be bracket mounted on flat roofs. Solar collectors may only be
mounted on lawfully permitted principal or accessory structures.
         (d)   All solar energy systems shall use colors that blend with the
color of the roof or other structure. Reflection angles from collector surfaces
shall be oriented away from neighboring windows. Where necessary, screening may
be required to address glare.
         (e)   The electrical lines connecting to the system shall be placed
underground within the interior of each parcel. The collection system may be
placed overhead near substations or points of interconnection to the electric
grid.
         (f)   No signage or graphic content may be displayed on the solar
collection system except the manufacturer’s badge, safety information and
equipment specification information. Said information shall be depicted within
an area no more than 36 square inches in size.
         (g)   Standards and certification. Solar energy systems shall meet the
minimum standards outlined by the National Electric Code (NEC), Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and the Underwriters Laboratory
(UL) or other standards as determined by the Planning Commission. Solar energy
systems shall be certified by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. All grid
connected systems shall have an agreement with the local utility prior to the
issuance of a building permit. A visible external disconnect must be provided
if required by the utility.
         (h)   If the solar energy system remains nonfunctional or inoperative
for a continuous period of one year, the system shall be deemed to be abandoned
and shall constitute a public nuisance. Owner of any home at which there exists
a solar installation shall complete and file with the city an annual
certification that their system is still operational and functioning, including
supporting documentation, such as utility bills. If no certification is filed,
or the certification is insufficient, the city shall have a right to inspect
the premises to determine whether it is functioning and/or demand further
documentation from the owner as to the operational status of the solar
installation. The owner shall remove any abandoned system at their expense,
after a demolition permit has been obtained. Removal includes the entire
structure including transmission equipment.
(Ord. 21-06, Series 2021, passed 5-25-21) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01(A) shall be subject to the following penalties:
   (A)   Violators of the Uniform State Building Code shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1000. Each day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. (KRS 198B.990(1))
   (B)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense. (KRS 318.990).
   (C)   Penalties for §§
150.20 through
150.23.
      (1)   Criminal.
         (a)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
150.20 through
150.23 shall be fined not less than $20.00 nor more than $100.00.
         (b)   Where Kentucky Revised Statutes mandates a fine higher than that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in Kentucky Revised Statutes shall apply.
         (c)   Any continuing violation of §§
150.20 through
150.23 shall be considered a separate and distinct offense for each day on
which a violation occurs or continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed
therefore.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
150.20 through
150.23 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to two
times the minimum fine prescribed in §§
150.20 through
150.23, with a minimum civil penalty of $40.00 for each violation; each day of
violation shall be considered a separate offense.
         (b)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the
penalty within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the ordinance
violation. As used herein "cited" shall mean notified of the violation and the
penalty in writing by an elected or appointed official of the city or the
official attorney for the city. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative
to or in conjunction with the criminal penalties authorized herein.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
150.24 shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $100. Any continuing
violation of §
150.24 shall be considered a separate and distinct offense for each day on
which a violation occurs or continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed
therefor.
(Ord. 09-07, passed 8-11-09; Am. Ord. 21-06, Series 2021, passed 5-25-21)
CHAPTER 151: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
151.01   Adoption by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Cornerstone 2020 Statement of Goals and Objectives adopted by the
Louisville and Jefferson County Planning Commission is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated into this code of ordinances as if fully set forth
herein.
   (B)   The Cornerstone 2020 Plan Elements adopted by the Louisville and
Jefferson County Planning Commission are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated into this code of ordinances as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 2000-02, passed 2-22-00; Am. Ord. 18-05, passed 6-12-18)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
   
152.01   Zoning regulations adopted by reference
§ 152.01 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The zoning regulations of the Land Development Code for Jefferson County,
Chapters 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 and 11, excluding the appendices, and
Section 4.4.2 are hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.
Copies shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk/City Administrative
Officer and shall be available for public inspection during normal business
hours.
(Ord. 87-04, passed 6-12-87; Am. Ord. 90-05, passed 7-13-90; Am. Ord. 97-08,
passed - -97; Am. Ord. 98-01, passed 1-26-98; Am. Ord. 02-06, passed 12-10-02;
Am. Ord. 07-05, passed 12-11-07; Am. Ord. 09-09, passed 12-8-09)
________________
Cross-reference:
   Home occupations, see
Ch. 117
   Sign regulations, see
Ch. 153
   Zoning map changes, see
T.S.O. III
Editor’s Note:
   The regulations contained in
Chapter 117 Home Occupations of this Code supersede those contained in the
Louisville Metro Land Development Code 4.4.5 A. through 4.4.5 K, which are
hereby repealed.
CHAPTER 153: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   General regulations
   
153.03   Residential/office signs
   
153.04   Business signs
   
153.05   Outdoor advertising signs
   
153.06   Temporary and freestanding signs
Sign Permits; Licensing of Signs
   
153.20   Definitions
   
153.21   Sign permits
   
153.22   Sign maintenance
   
153.23   Non-conforming signs
   
153.24   Appeals to City Commission
   
153.25   Exemptions
 
   
153.98   Civil penalty
   
153.99   Criminal penalty
Cross-reference:
   Zoning, see
Ch. 152
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning and the
singular shall include the plural.
   "AWNING." A roof-like cover constructed of cloth, metal or other material
designed and intended for protection from the weather and as a decorative
embellishment, and which is supported by and projects from a wall of a
structure over a window, walk, door, or the like.
   "AWNING SIGN." A sign painted on, printed on, or attached flat against the
surface of an awning.
   "BUSINESS SIGN.” Commonly known as an "on premises sign", is a sign used to
identify a business, profession, trade or occupation on the site and/or the
generic or brand name products or services available at the site, and shall
include an attached sign, freestanding sign, projecting sign, and freestanding
directional sign all as more specifically described in and allowed by §
153.04 hereof, and a small freestanding sign as more specifically described in
and allowed by §
153.06.
   "CANOPY." A roof-like cover constructed of cloth, metal or other material
designed and intended for protection of the entrance way of a building from the
weather, which is supported by a building at one or more points or extremities
and when structurally needed by columns or posts affixed to the ground at other
points or extremities.
   "CANOPY SIGN." A sign painted on, printed on or attached flat against the
surface of the canopy.
   “CLUB IDENTIFICATION SIGN." A sign used to identify a club, lodge,
fraternity or sorority.
   "COMMUNITY FACILITY IDENTIFICATION SIGN" A sign identifying a church, school
or other institution of learning, library, museum, community center or similar
institution on site.
   "CONSTRUCTION SIGN.” A sign used to identify the persons or businesses
engaged in the construction of a building on site.
   "DIRECTOR." The director or department executive or other persons appointed
by chief executives of jurisdictions having zoning authority. "DIRECTOR" shall
also mean the person or persons appointed by the City Commission as Code
Enforcement Officer/Sign Officer/Citation Officer, or similar position, who
shall perform the functions of Director hereunder.
   "EXCEPTIONAL RESIDENTIAL USE SIGN." A sign used to identify a residence on
site for persons sharing a common status, disability or condition.
   "ILLUMINATED AWNING SIGN." An internally illuminated awning with translucent
covering and with graphics or copy applied to the visible surface of the
awning.
   "ILLUMINATED CANOPY SIGN." An internally illuminated canopy with translucent
covering and with graphics or copy applied to the visible surface of the
canopy.
   "MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL IDENTIFICATION SIGN." A sign used to identify a
multi-family development on site.
   "OFFICE BUILDING IDENTIFICATION SIGN." A sign used to identify an office
building on site, or, where allowed, the occupants thereof.
   "OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN." Commonly known as a "billboard" or an "off
premises sign" is a sign used to display, advertise or otherwise direct
attention to any business enterprise commodity, service or entertainment
conducted, sold or offered at a location other than the premises on which the
sign is located. This is not permitted in the city.
   "READER BOARD SIGN." A business sign or part thereof that is designed so
that characters, letters or illustrations can be easily changed or rearranged
without altering the face or surface of the sign.
   "RENT/SALE SIGN." A sign used to advertise the premises on site or a portion
thereof for sale or lease.
   "SIGN." Any display to public view of letters, words, numerals, figures,
statues, devices, emblems, pictures, or any parts or combinations thereof
designed to inform or advertise or draw attention to or promote merchandise,
services, or activities except for the following:
      (1)   Non-illuminated names of buildings, dates of erection, monument
citations, commemorative tablets and the like when carved into stone, concrete,
metal, or any other permanent type of construction and made an integral part of
an allowed structure or made flush to the ground.
      (2)   Signs required by law or signs of a duly constituted governmental
body.
      (3)   Signs placed by a public utility for the safety, welfare, or
convenience of the public, including, but not limited to signs identifying high
voltage, public telephone, or underground cables.
      (4)   Signs upon a vehicle, provided that any such vehicle with a sign
face of over two square feet is not conspicuously parked so as to constitute a
sign; nothing herein prevents such a vehicle from being used for bona fide
delivery and other vehicular purposes.
      (5)   Temporary holiday decorations.
      (6)   Numerals displayed on and denoting the address of a building or
property which are not part of an otherwise existing attached or freestanding
sign, and not larger than reasonably necessary to identify such address.
      (7)   Signs placed within the interior of a building which are attached
to and/or visible through windows or doors provided the sign occupies no more
than one-fourth the total square footage of the window or door.
      (8)   Signs of an organization holding an IRS § 501(c)(3) tax exemption
that are either banners affixed to a structure or a freestanding sign promoting
charitable, community service, or eleemosynary causes in which such
organization is directly involved, and containing no commercial message, and
approved by the City Commission or its designee.
      (9)   A back-to-back or V-shaped sign constitutes one sign if it has a
common set of supports. A composite group of signs integrated into one framed
unit or compact structure constitutes one sign. Such sign would constitute a
small freestanding sign not allowed in the city.
   "SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANT SIGN." A sign used to identify the
individual or individuals occupying a single family residence.
   "SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGN." A sign used to identify a subdivision on
site.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 3-24-97; Am. Ord. 21-02, passed 2-23-21)
§ 153.02 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No sign shall be placed in a manner visible from any public street,
alley, right-of-way, sidewalk or other public easement except as provided
herein nor shall any sign be placed in or extend over any
required yard in any district or be placed in or extend over any street, right-
of-way, roadway, sidewalk, public or private utility or access or other
easement, or alley except as provided herein or in Article 15 of the Zoning
Code, and with approval of the Director.
   (B)   All signs permitted hereunder shall be constructed and placed so as
not to interfere with vehicular traffic by obstructing sight lines for streets,
pedestrian rights-of-way and driveways.
   (C)   No sign shall be allowed to be illuminated except as expressly
provided herein. Signs which are otherwise allowed to be illuminated are not
allowed if the Director shall find that the lighting causes glare or otherwise
interferes with the vision of persons operating motor vehicles. All illuminated
signs shall be non-flashing and shall be constant in intensity and color,
except that signs which display time and temperature are allowed in C-N, C-1,
C-2, C-3, C-M, M-1, M-2 and M-3 zones.
   (D)   No sign shall be allowed if the Director finds that the sign is
constructed or designed in a manner which may cause the sign to be confused
with a traffic sign or other traffic control device.
   (E)   The maximum allowed area for all signs other than freestanding
business signs shall be determined by drawing four or fewer straight lines
encompassing the extremities of the sign within the smallest possible area.
   (F)   The maximum allowed area for freestanding business signs shall be
measured by drawing eight or fewer straight lines encompassing the extremities
of the sign within the smallest possible area, provided, however, that the area
of a freestanding sign shall not include poles, supports or other structures
which are solely for support and which do not contain any advertising and, the
area of a freestanding sign shall not include the space between the business
identification portion of a freestanding business sign and the reader board
portion.
   (G)   Signs which revolve, rotate or move in any way shall be allowed in the
C-N, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-M, M-1, M-2 and M-3 zones only and no such sign shall
move faster than one cycle every ten seconds.
   (H)   No sign shall have more than four faces.
   (I)   One freestanding rent/sale sign per site not exceeding 12 square feet
in area shall be allowed in any district. Lots abutting more than one street,
one such rent/sate sign shall be allowed for each abutting street. In the C-N,
EZ-1, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-M, M-1, M2, M-3, PRO and PEC Districts freestanding or
attached rent/sale signs not exceeding 30 square feet shall be allowed. Such
signs shall be removed not later than 24 hours after closing of sale or
consummation of lease.
   (J)   One or more signs identifying persons or business firms engaged in the
construction of a building on site, are allowed, provided that each such sign
shall not exceed 12 square feet in area or eight feet above ground in height.
In the alternative, one sign identifying all persons or business firms engaged
in construction of a building on site is allowed, provided the sign shall not
exceed 30 square feet in area or eight feet above ground in height. All such
signs must be removed within 20 days following issuance of a certificate of
occupancy for the building.
   (K)   The combined square footage of reader boards on business signs under §
153.04(B)(2), freestanding signs under §
153.04(C)(5) and the size of the small freestanding signs under §
153.06 shall not exceed 32 square feet.
   (L)   This regulation shall be in addition to the requirements of KRS
177.830 - 177.890.
   (M)   No changing image signs are allowed, other than that of time and
temperature, as set out in division (C) hereinabove. Changing image signs
include any sign using a video, or light emitting device display method, which
changes its message or background by means of electrical, kinetic, solar or
mechanical energy. Video, or light emitting device displays which project a
static, non-changing message are also not allowed.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 3-24-97; Am. Ord. 09-08, passed 12-8-09)
§ 153.03 RESIDENTIAL/OFFICE SIGNS.
   (A)   One single family residential occupant sign not exceeding one square
foot shall be allowed anywhere on the premises of each residence.
   (B)   One freestanding subdivision identification sign not exceeding 60
square feet in area or 15 feet in height shall be allowed at each dedicated
street entrance within the building lines of the subdivision during
construction, for not more than 60 days prior to the commencement of
construction, and after construction until such time as 80% of the lots are
sold. Thereafter, one subdivision identification sign not exceeding 15 square
feet in area or 15 feet in height shall be allowed at each dedicated street
entrance within the building lines.
   (C)   One freestanding or attached community facility identification sign
not to exceed 30 square feet in area and not exceeding ten feet in height
facing each bordering street is allowed on the premises of any community
center, church, school, library, museum or similar institution. A church sign
may be illuminated if it is 32 square feet or less in area and less than eight
feet in height, provided that, if the church is located in a district for which
a larger business sign would be allowed, then the size of the sign may conform
to the size allowed in that district. For community facility signs greater than
18 square feet in area, the illumination shall be limited to the lettering or
motif, and background must be opaque.
   (D)   One exceptional residential use sign or club identification sign
facing each bordering street not to exceed six square feet in area is allowed
on each site on which an exceptional residential use or club, lodge, fraternity
or sorority is located. Any such sign if freestanding must not exceed six feet
in height.
   (E)   One illuminated or non-illuminated multi-family residential
identification sign attached flat on the face of the building and extending no
more than 12 inches from the surface of such building is allowed to face each
street bordering on the site on which a multi-family dwelling is located in the
R-5A, R-6, R-7, R-8, OR-1, OR-2, OR-3, or OTF Districts. Said signs may not
exceed 12 square feet in area if the site is in the R-5A, R-6, R-7, R-8A or OR-
1 Districts and may not exceed 50 square feet in area if the site is in the OR-
2, OR-3, OTF, W-1 or W-2 Districts. In no event shall an attached sign be
located more than three feet above the ceiling of the first floor of the
building. In the alternative one freestanding sign which shall not extend into
any required yard is allowed to face each street bordering the site provided
that such freestanding signs if located in the R-5A, R-6, R-7, R-8A or OR-
1 Districts shall not exceed a height of six feet above ground nor exceed an
area of six square feet and if located in the OR-2, OR-3, OTF, W-1 or W-
2 Districts shall not exceed a height of ten feet above ground nor exceed an
area of 30 square feet.
   (F)   One illuminated or non-illuminated office building identification sign
attached flat on the face of the building and extending no more than 12 inches
from the surface of such building is allowed to face each street bordering the
site on which an office building is located in the OR-1, OR-2, OR-3, OTF, W-
I or W-2 districts. Said signs may not exceed ten square feet in area if the
site is in the OR-1 District and may not exceed 50 square feet in area if the
site is in the OR-2, OR-3, OTF, W-1 or W-2 Districts. In no event shall an
attached sign be located more than three feet above the ceiling of the first
floor of the building. In the alternative one freestanding sign which shall not
extend into any required yard is allowed to face each street bordering the site
provided that such freestanding signs if located in the OR-1 District shall not
exceed a height of six feet above ground nor exceed an area of six square feet
and if located in the OR-2, OR-3, 07'F, W-1 or W-2 Districts shall not exceed a
height of ten feet above ground nor exceed an area of 30 square feet. In the
OR-3 and OTT Districts only up to 50% of the area of each sign may be used for
tenant identification with at least 50% of the area of such signs dedicated to
the building identification or name. In addition, freestanding directional
signs subject to the requirements of § 153.04(D) are allowed in the OR-1, OR-2,
OR-3, OTF, W-1 or W-2 Districts.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 3-24-97)
§ 153.04 BUSINESS SIGNS.
   (A)   Illuminated or non-illuminated business signs are allowed in the CN,
C-1, C-2, C-3, C-M, EZ-1, M-1, M-2 and M-3 Districts subject to the
restrictions set forth in divisions (B) through (E).
   (B)   Attached Signs. An attached sign for the purpose of this section shall
mean a business sign painted on or mounted on and parallel to the facade of a
building. No building shall have more than four facades.
      (1)   There shall be not more than three attached signs on any one facade
of a building, subject to the total maximum sign area requirement set forth
below, except that multiple use buildings may have one sign per facade and one
additional sign for each business, subject to the total maximum sign area
requirement set forth below.
      (2)   The total area encompassed by all attached signs, including those
on awnings or canopies, on any one facade of the building shall not exceed:
 
Area of Facade of Building             Maximum Sign Area
Less than 500 square feet              20% of Building Facade Area
Greater than or equal to 500 less than 100 square feet plus 15% of but the
1,000 square feet                      amount by which Building Area exceeds
                                       500 square feet
Greater than or equal to 1000 but less 175 square feet plus 5% of the amount by
than 3,500 square feet                 which Building Facade Area exceeds 1000
                                       square feet.
Greater than or equal to 3,500 square  300 square feet
feet
 
      (3)   An attached sign mounted parallel to the exterior walls of a
building may project up to 18 inches from the surface to which it is mounted.
In the instance of a building on the property line, an attached sign
constructed flat on the face of such building may extend into the right-of-way
no further than 18 inches from the surface of such building. An attached sign
mounted to a slanted (inclined) exterior surface may be mounted in the vertical
upright position as long as the sign does not project beyond 18 inches at the
point of attachment. No such sign shall extend more than five feet above the
highest point of the exterior wall to which it is attached. No such sign shall
be mounted on any roof. No such sign shall extend to a height greater than 25
feet above ground, except that buildings located in the C-3 District and
hospitals may have an attached sign of any height.
         (a)   Awning signs may project up to 48 inches from the facade to
which they are mounted.
         (b)   Canopy signs may project up to 96 inches from the facade to
which they are mounted.
         (c)   Awnings and canopies containing signs must be mounted no more
than three feet above the ceiling of the first floor of the building. The area
of all awning and canopy signs shall be included as part of the total allowable
signage on any one facade of a building as listed in division (B)(2) of this
section.
         (d)   Whenever an awning or canopy contains signage and is internally
illuminated (illuminated canopy and awning signs) the entire surface area of
the awning or canopy is to be considered a sign when calculating the allowable
area for signage.
      (4)   In addition to the permanent attached signs allowed herein,
temporary banners (cloth, plastic or other nonrigid material with no enclosing
framework) are allowed in the C-N, C-1, C2, C-3, C-M, EZ-1, M-1, M-2 and M-
3 Districts upon the issuance of a permit by the authorized city official.
         (a)   Said permit shall be issued for a period not to exceed 30
consecutive days and for cumulative periods not to exceed 60 days in any
calendar year, with a separate permit required for each period of display. In
addition to any other penalty provided herein or by separate ordinance, the
display of any banner without a permit shall cause the forfeiture of two days
of entitlement for each day the banner is displayed without a permit.
         (b)   Only one such temporary banner shall be allowed on any business
premises.
         (c)   The area of such a banner shall not exceed 50% of the sign area
allowed for permanent attached business signs on the building facade to which
the banner is affixed.
         (d)   Said banner shall be of a square or rectangular design having
all four corners secured with wire, steel, or nylon cord of appropriate
strength.
         (e)   Immediately upon expiration of the permit, said temporary banner
shall be removed.
         (f)   Any banner being displayed for which a valid permit has nor been
issued, shall be deemed an unlawful, un-permittable sign. Any person found to
be in control of the premises shall be given 24 hours to remove said banner or
it may be removed by the authorized city official at the owner's expense.
   (C)   Freestanding signs. In addition to the attached signs allowed above,
illuminated or non-illuminated freestanding signs are allowed subject to the
following restrictions:
      (1)   No freestanding sign shall be located in or project over or into
the right-of-way or into any adjoining property.
      (2)   No sign shall be higher than 35 feet in the C-N and C-1 Districts,
nor higher than 40 feet in the C-2, CM, EZ-1, M-1, M-2 and M-3 Districts unless
specifically exempted elsewhere in this section.
      (3)   No freestanding sign shall encroach into a required yard.
      (4)   When a freestanding sign is allowed at the front or street side
property line, such sign shall not exceed 20 feet in height. For each one and
one-half feet setback from the front or street side property line, whichever is
nearest to the sign, the maximum height may increase six inches. However, no
portion of a sign within five feet of the front or street side property line
may be closer than ten feet to the ground, except for directional signs of the
dimensions allowed in these regulations. In no case shall a freestanding sign
exceed 35 feet in height, except as noted in division (C)(2)above.
      (5)   The maximum area of one face of any freestanding sign shall not
exceed in square feet the following percentage of the square of the maximum
permitted sign height:
         (a)   12% in the C-N Neighborhood Commercial District.
         (b)   16% in the C-1, C-2 and C-M Commercial Districts.
         (c)   20% in the EZ-1, M-1, M-2 and M-3 Industrial Districts.
(Example: maximum area of a sign ten feet from the front property line in a C-
2 zone is 16% x 23 x 23).
          *(d)   An additional 25% (to a maximum of 32 square feet) of the
allowable sign square footage can be added if used exclusively as a reader
board.
(*Example: maximum area of a sign ten feet from the front property line in a C-
2 zone is 16% x 23 x 23 = 84.64 sq. ft. plus 21.16 sq. ft. for a reader board
sign).
      (6)   No sign shall have more than four faces.
      (7)   A lot fronting only on one street shall have not more than one
freestanding sign except as allowed by division (C)(9) below.
      (8)   A lot fronting on two streets shall be allowed to have two
freestanding signs. If two signs are to be used the total maximum combined area
of the two signs shall not exceed the maximum sign area of the one freestanding
sign allowed on lots fronting on only one street. See "Street" definition.
      (9)   The maximum area of each face of a freestanding sign as calculated
by division (C)(5) hereof may be increased by 20% if the sign is located on a
lot with more than 300 feet of frontage on a public street, by 35% if the sign
is located on a lot with more than 450 feet of frontage on a public street and
by 50% if the sign is located on a lot with more than 600 feet of frontage on a
public street. In the alternative a lot with more than 450 feet of public
street frontage shall be allowed to have one additional freestanding sign, but
if such additional sign is placed on the lot the maximum area of each
freestanding sign shall be calculated as provided by division (C)(5) and the
maximum area of each such sign shall not be embellished by the foregoing
provisions of this division (9).
      (10)   An outdoor advertising sign, if otherwise permitted, shall not be
counted in determining compliance with divisions (C)(7), (8), and (9) above.
      (11)   No lot shall have a freestanding sign unless the building situated
on that lot is set back at least 15 feet from the front and street side
property line.
   (D)   Freestanding directional signs. Freestanding directional signs, i.e.,
signs used primarily to direct on premise vehicular or pedestrian circulation
or traffic, are allowed to a maximum height of three feet, with a maximum area
of five square feet. Such signs shall not be counted toward the number of
freestanding signs allowed on a lot. One single faced "Menu Board" type sign is
allowed for a "drive through" facility and shall not be counted toward the
number of freestanding signs allowed, provided such sign is no larger than 16
square feet.
   (E)   Projecting signs. Buildings on lots which contain no freestanding sign
(other than a freestanding directional sign) may not have more than one sign
which projects perpendicularly from the facade (but not the roof) of the
building providing that the sign does not exceed 32 square feet in area, does
not extend below nine feet above the ground or sidewalk, or more than seven
feet from the facade of the building, or closer than two feet to the abutting
roadway. The area of the projecting sign shall be part of the total allowable
signage allowed on any one facade of the building as listed in §
153.04(B)(2) of this subchapter.
   (F)   Illuminated or non-illuminated business signs are allowed in the OTF
District subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   One freestanding sign is allowed for each motel or hotel, which
sign shall not exceed 30 square feet in area and shall not exceed a height of
ten feet above ground.
      (2)   In addition, freestanding directional signs subject to the
requirements of division (D) are allowed.
   (G)   Signs erected in the PRO and PEC Districts shall be subject to the
following regulations:
      (1)   Individual business signs facing each bordering street shall be
limited in total surface area to three square feet for each linear foot of
street frontage of the lot, provided that such sign shall not exceed a maximum
of 300 square feet. Directional signs may be erected in the required front yard
but shall not exceed six square feet in area.
      (2)   One Industrial Park identification sign shall be allowed on each
street on which the Industrial Park fronts and shall not exceed a maximum of
300 square feet in area.
      (3)   Advertising signs are prohibited.
      (4)   No sign in the PRO and PEC Districts shall have flashing or
intermittent illumination.
   (H)   One business sign for each business site located in the W-3 District
is allowed provided that such sign shall not exceed 300 square feet in area or
35 feet in height and shall be made a part of the architectural design of the
building or the landscape development of the site. In addition, freestanding
directional signs subject to the requirements of division (D) are allowed.
   (I)   Special Provisions. A single use building may have one attached sign
furnishing emergency telephone numbers or other such emergency information.
Such a sign shall not be counted toward the number of attached signs allowed
provided it does not exceed one square foot in area. Multiple use buildings may
have one such emergency sign for each independent use. A sign in a gasoline
service station identifying a self service and/or full service pump island may
be attached to canopy supports or light standards over a pump island at a
height greater than the three feet allowed for other directional signs,
provided the area of such a sign does not exceed five square feet.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 3-24-97)
§ 153.05 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   Outdoor advertising signs (billboards) are not permitted in the city.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 3-24-97)
§ 153.06 TEMPORARY AND FREESTANDING SIGNS.
   Small freestanding signs are not permitted in the city on any property
unless they are in compliance with this section. Any temporary and freestanding
signs located within the city limits shall conform to the following
regulations:
   (A)   No signage of any kind shall be affixed to any street sign, pole,
post, irrigation box, fire hydrant, telecommunication facility, utility box or
utility facilities located in the road right-of-way, whether or not it is the
property of the city or the property of a utility company.
   (B)   For sale signs:
      (1)   Owners of a property zoned for single-family use may put no more
than two “for sale” sign by owner or licensed agent/broker on their house to
advertise the property for sale. Property sold at auction is included in this
category. No other signs are allowed.
      (2)   Directional for sale/auction signs are not permitted in the city or
at the entrances.
   (C)   Open house signs:
      (1)   One open house sign at the residence may be installed two days
prior to the open house.
      (2)   Directional open house signs may be installed at the entrances of
the city and at the intersections leading to the address of the open house no
sooner than the day prior to the open house, as long as they are not placed in
the city’s landscaping beds.
      (3)   All signs shall be removed at the conclusion of the open house.
   (D)   Yard/garage sale signs:
      (1)   Yard/garage sale and directional signs may be installed at
entrances and intersections leading to the sale no sooner than the day prior to
the yard/garage sale, as long as they are not placed in the city’s landscaping
beds.
      (2)   All yard/garage sale and directional signs shall be removed at the
conclusion of the sale.
   (E)   For rent/rental signs:
      (1)   Property owners may put one “for rent” sign by owner or a licensed
agent/broker in front of the residence to advertise the property for rent.
      (2)   No other “for rent” or directional sign is allowed within the city
or at the entrances.
   (F)   Contractor/advertisement signs: One sign, no larger than three feet by
four feet, for the purpose of advertising jobs, services or work done on a
property is allowed if the applicant obtains a sign permit from the city. The
permit is good for ten days after the completion of the project, or a maximum
of six months (whichever is sooner), at which time the sign must be removed.
   (G)   Event signs may be placed within the city for those events that have
been approved and scheduled through the city office. Number of signs, location
of signs and time interval to be determined by the city. Signs must be removed
at the conclusion of the event. No other event signs are allowed.
   (H)   Signs for political candidates shall be removed within two days after
the election. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner or resident
to remove any political sign not removed by the candidate. Political signs are
not permitted in the city right-of-way or at the entrances if they block sight
lines or distract from directional roadway signage. It shall be the
responsibility of the candidate to remove any political sign located in the
city right-of-way within two days after the election.
   (I)   Signs in violation of this section will be removed at the expense of
those who violate the regulation.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 3-24-97; Am. Ord. 21-02, passed 2-23-21)
SIGN PERMITS; LICENSING OF SIGNS
§ 153.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “BILLBOARD.” Office signs, notice, poster, display or other device intended
to attract the attention of passengers of motor vehicles on the highways, and
shall include a structure erected or used in connection with the display of any
device and alt lighting or other attachments used in connection therewith.
However, it does not include directional of other official signs or signals
erected by the state or other public agency having jurisdiction.
   “BULLETIN BOARD.” Any sign erected by a charitable, educational or religious
institution or a public body, which is erected upon the same properly as said
institution, for purposes of announcing events which are held on the premises.
   “DISPLAY SURFACE AREA.” The gross geometric area enclosed by the display
surface of the sign including the outer extremities of all letters, characters
and delineations; structural supports for free standing signs; provided further
that both faces of a double face sign shall be considered in determining the
display surface area; provided further that in no event shall area computed
herein be less than areas as defined in the city Zoning Ordinance relating to
sign size and location.
   “ERECT.” To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend, or affix, and
paint a wall sign.
   “FACE.” A surface lying in a single plane.
   “FREESTANDING SIGN.” A sign which is attached to or a part of a completely
self supporting structure. The supporting structure shall be firmly in or below
the ground surface and not attached to any building or any other structure
whether portable or stationary.
   “IDENTIFICATION AND INFORMATION SIGNS.” Signs of an identification or
information nature bearing no advertising.
   “NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.” A sign existing at the effective date of the
adoption of this subchapter and for which a city sign permit has previously
been issued or could have been issued by the city without City Commission
approval which could not be built under the terms of this subchapter or the now
existing zoning district regulations for the city.
   “OFF-SITE SIGN.” A sign other than an on-site sign.
   “ON-SITE SIGN.” A sign relating in its subject matter to the premises on
which it is located, or to products, accommodations, services, or activities on
the premises.
   “PORTABLE OR TEMPORARY SIGNS.” A single or double-faced painted or poster
panel type sign or some variation thereof, which is temporary in nature located
on the ground or mounted on wheels, easily movable, and not permanently
attached and sometimes referred to as a "small freestanding sign". (These signs
are not legal in the city.)
   “SIGN.” Includes every device, frame, figure, character, letter, mark,
plane, point, design, picture, stroke, stripe, trademark or reading matter,
which is used or intended to be used to attract or convey information when the
same is placed out of doors in view of the general public. Where matter is
displayed in a random manner without organized relationship to elements, or
where there is reasonable doubt as to the relationship of elements, each
element shall be considered a single sign.
   “SIGN, ADVERTISING.” A sign which directs attention to a business, product,
activity, or service which is not necessarily conducted, sold, or offered upon
the premises where such sign is located.
   “SIGN, BUSINESS.” A sign which directs attention to a business, profession,
service, product, activity, or entertainment sold or offered upon the premises
where such sign is located.
   “SIGN OFFICER.” The Code Enforcement Officer or Citation Officer of the city
or other person authorized by the City Commission to perform the functions of
the sign officer.
(Ord. 97-02, passed 3-24-97)
§ 153.21 SIGN PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, repair, alter, relocate or
keep within the city any sign or other advertising structure as defined in §
153.20 of this subchapter without first obtaining a sign permit from the sign
officer or other duly authorized officer of the city and paying the fee
required by this section.
   (A)    Application for initial (original) sign permit. Application for
initial (original) sign permits shall be made upon completion of application
form provided by the sign officer, and shall contain or have attached thereto
the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant owner.
      (2)   Location of building, structure or lot to which or upon which the
sign is to be attached or erected.
      (3)   Position of the sign in relation to nearby buildings or structures.
      (4)   Clean prints or ink drawings of plans, to true scale with the scale
noted, and with materials and details of construction. (Two required)
      (5)   Name of person, firm, corporation, or association erecting sign.
      (6)   Written consent of the owner of the building, structure or land to
which or on which the structure is to be erected.
      (7)   The date on which the sign was erected, if already in place, or the
date to be erected.
      (8)   Any other information required by the sign officer in administering
this subchapter.
   (B)    Application for renewal sign permit. Application for a renewal sign
permit shall be made upon completion of application form provided by the code
enforcement officer, and may require the same information as is required for an
initial sign permit or may have a copy of the initial sign permit application
attached thereto.
   (C)   Sign permit fees.
      (1)   Original and renewal permit fees. Every applicant, before being
granted a permit hereunder shall pay to the city a permit fee of $1 per square
foot of each face as defined in the Louisville and Jefferson County Development
Code, with a minimum fee of $25. Renewal application may be made up to 30 days
prior to permit expiration.
   (D)   Expiration date. All sign permits shall expire on December 31 of the
year when issued, and shall be considered delinquent if not renewed by January
15 of the following year.
   (E)   Special initial rules. For signs existing on April 1, 1997, the permit
fee shall be waived if proper sign permit application is made on or before May
15, 1997. If the permit application is made after May 15, 1997, the full fee
shall be due as for an original sign permit.
   (F)   Existing signs. An applicant for a permit for a sign in existence on
April 1, 1997, shall file an application for an original sign permit marked
"renewal". The issuance of a permit for an existing sign shall not be evidence
that such sign conforms to the regulations of the Louisville and Jefferson
County Planning Commission or ordinances of the city.
   (G)    Changes in ownership or display material. An original permit
application and fee shall be required for a sign where more than 50% of the
display is altered (other than repainting the original sign display) or where
there is a change in the ownership of the sign.
   (H)   Issuance of sign permits. It shall be the duty of the sign officer,
upon the filing of an application for a sign permit to examine such plans and
specifications and other data and the premises upon which it is proposed to
erect the sign or other advertising structure, and, if it shall appear that the
proposed structure is in compliance with all the requirements of this
subchapter and all other ordinances of the city, subject to the provisions of §
153.21, he shall issue the sign permit. Each sign shall require a separate
permit valid only for the location shown thereon. If the work authorized under
the sign permit has not been completed within six months after date of
issuance, said permit shall become null and void. It shall also be the duty of
the sign officer to issue renewals of sign permits for all signs complying with
the terms of this subchapter (or exceptions thereto) for which previous sign
permit has been issued. No permit shall be issued for any sign erected on or
after April 1, 1997, which does not comply with the provisions of Article 11 of
the Zoning District Regulations of Jefferson County, Kentucky, as adopted by
the city, or any other city ordinance relating to signs or zoning.
   (I)    Revocation of permit. The authorized city official may revoke any
permit where there has been a violation of the provisions of this subchapter or
any misrepresentation of fact on the permit application.
(Ord. 97-02, passed 3-24-97; Am. Ord. 21-02, passed 2-23-21) Penalty, see §§
153.98,
153.99
§ 153.22 SIGN MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Sign identification. Every sign hereafter registered shall show in a
conspicuous place thereon, which is visible to the sign officer and is readable
by such officer from the ground, the permit number. In the alternative, the
owner/applicant shall keep the permit issued by the city, or a copy thereof,
located on the premises on which the sign is located at all times and shall
exhibit same for inspection by the sign officer or other designated
representative of the city.
   (B)   Premises maintenance. All free standing signs and the premises
surrounding same shall be maintained by the owner thereof in a clean, sanitary
and inoffensive condition, and free and clear of all obnoxious substances,
rubbish and weeds.
   (C)   Unsafe and unlawful signs. If the sign officer shall find that any
sign or other advertising structure regulated herein is unsafe or insecure, or
is a menace to the public, or is abandoned or is maintained in a dilapidated
condition, or has been constructed or erected or is being maintained in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter, he shall give written notice to
the permittee or property owner thereof. If the permittee or property owner
thereof fails to remove or alter the structure so as to comply with the
standards herein set forth within ten days after such notice, such sign or
other advertising structure may be removed or altered to comply by the sign
officer at the expense of the permittee or owner of the property upon which it
is located. The sign officer shall refuse to issue a permit to any permittee or
owner who refuses to pay costs so assessed. The sign officer may cause any sign
or other advertising structure which is an immediate peril to persons or
property to be removed summarily and without notice. Such permittee or owner
shall also be liable for the penalties hereinafter prescribed.
(Ord. 97-02, passed 3-24-97) Penalty, see §§
153.98,
153.99
§ 153.23 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)    Non conforming signs, other than temporary or portable signs,
lawfully in existence at the time of the adoption of this subchapter may be
continued provided a required permit is obtained.
   (B)    No non-conforming sign may be enlarged or altered in any way which
would increase its non-conformity.
   (C)    Should any non-conforming sign be damaged by any means to an extent
of more than 50% of its replacement cost at the time of damage, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 97-02, passed 3-24-97) Penalty, see §§
153.98,
153.99
§ 153.24 APPEALS TO CITY COMMISSION.
   The City Commission shall serve as an appeal board to which any person
affected by the denial of a permit or order of the sign officer may appeal any
such decision made by the sign officer. In such a case, no permit shall be
issued unless the City Commission shall find that denial of the permit would
deprive the applicant of reasonable use of the land, the sign will preserve and
not harm the public safety and welfare and will not alter the essential
character of the neighborhood.
(Ord. 97-02, passed 3-24-97)
§ 153.25 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exemption shall not be construed as relieving the owner of such signs from
the responsibility of complying with applicable provisions of this subchapter
or the zoning regulations of the city. The exemptions shall apply only to the
requirement for a sign permit and no permit shall be required for the erection
of the following signs:
   (A)   Professional name plates erected flat on walls of buildings and not
exceeding four square feet of display surface area.
   (B)   Real estate signs pertaining to the lease or sale of a building or
property, provided such sign does not exceed 12 square feet in area.
   (C)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection
where cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other non-
combustible materials.
   (D)   Traffic or other municipal signs, legal notices, railroad crossing
signs, danger and such temporary and emergency or non- advertising signs.
   (E)   Posting of bills on signs, repainting of signs which does not change
more than 50% of the display area, or the changing of letters or numbers on
signs designed for changeable lettering or numbering which are legally erected
and maintained for such purposes, where the original sign has a valid permit,
and such original permit is renewed as herein provided.    (Change of ownership
will require new permit).
   (F)   Election campaign signs.
   (G)   All signs located within a building that are not visible to the public
outside the building.
   (H)   Signs painted on, or affixed to glass surfaces of windows or doors and
pertaining to the lawful business conducted therein, provided the sign occupies
no more than one-fourth of the total square footage of the window or door, and
affixed to the internal side thereof.
   (I)   Directional, identification and informational signs, provided that
such signs are limited to wall and freestanding signs with maximum of four
square feet of display surface and contain no advertising material.
   (J)   Religious, charitable, or non-profit organization signs containing no
commercial advertising and located on private property provided however, a
permit shall be obtained without the payment of a fee. For such signs the sign
officer may require a copy of the IRS § 501(c)(3) approval.
   (K)   Subdivision signs lawfully existing and identifying a subdivision.
   (L)   Bulletin boards six feet or less in height with display area up to 16
square feet.
   (M)   Any display not constituting any “sign” under city Zoning District
Regulations, except bus stop shelter signs.
   (N)   Vending machines signs presently in operation or hereinafter
installed.
(Am. Ord. 21-02, passed 2-23-21)
§ 153.98 CIVIL PENALTY.
   Any violation of §§
153.21 through
153.25 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to the
minimum fine prescribed by §
153.99 of this subchapter. Such civil penalty may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty
within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the subchapter violation.
In addition, the offender shall also pay the cost for the city to remove any
illegal sign and for any damages to city owned property caused by any illegal
sign. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative to or in conjunction with
the criminal penalties authorized in §
153.99 of this subchapter. The city is authorized to withhold the issuance of a
sign permit where the owner or applicant has failed to pay or appeal any civil
penalty assessed.
(Ord. 97-02, passed 3-24-97; Am. Ord. 21-02, passed 2-23-21)
§ 153.99 CRIMINAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of §§
153.21 through
153.25 or failure to comply with any of the requirements thereof shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates §§
153.21 through
153.25 or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $50. Each day during which
such violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense for which a
separate fine may be imposed.
   (B)   The owner or tenant of any building or structure, premises or part
thereof, any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who commits,
participates in, or maintains such violation may be found guilty of a separate
offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
(Ord. 97-02, passed 3-24-97)
CHAPTER 154: BINDING ELEMENTS
Section
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Enforcement of binding elements
   
154.03   Authority of the Planning Commission/Hurstbourne
   
154.04   Form citations and issuance
   
154.05   Hearings before the Planning Commission/Hurstbourne
   
154.06   Appeal of Planning Commission/Hurstbourne orders
   
154.07   Payment of fines
   
154.08   Civil action
   
154.09   Severability
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "BINDING ELEMENT." A binding requirement, provision, restriction, or
condition imposed by the Planning Commission, the City of Hurstbourne, or
either’s designee, or a promise or agreement made by an applicant in writing,
in connection with the approval of a land use development plan or subdivision
plan.
   “CITY.” The City of Hurstbourne.
   "LAND USE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER." An officer authorized by the Planning
commission, or the City of Hurstbourne (with the approval of the Planning
Commission) to enforce binding elements.
   "LAND USE ORDINANCE." An official action of the city which is a regulation
of a general and permanent nature relating to the use and development of land
within Jefferson County. It is enforceable as a local law and includes any
provision of the city's Code of Ordinances which embodies all or part of an
ordinance.
   "PLANNING COMMISSION." The Louisville Metro Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 2-22-00; Am. Ord. 11-03, passed 5-10-11)
§ 154.02 ENFORCEMENT OF BINDING ELEMENTS.
   The violation of any binding element, as defined in §
154.01, shall constitute a civil offense which may subject the violator to the
penalties and processes allowed under KRS 100.401 through 100.417, which
include a civil fine and/or other remedial orders of the Planning Commission,
or the City of Hurstbourne (if the Planning Commission appoints a City of
Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer), in accordance with procedures set forth
in this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 2-22-00; Am. Ord. 11-03, passed 5-10-11) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.03 AUTHORITY OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION/HURSTBOURNE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, and/or the City of Hurstbourne (if the
Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer), may
issue remedial orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing a binding
element when a violation of that binding element has occurred.
   (B)   If the violation of a binding element would also constitute an offense
under any provision of the Kentucky Revised Statutes, including specifically,
and without limitation, any provision of the Kentucky Penal Code and any moving
motor vehicle offense, such a violation of a binding element shall not be a
civil offense under this chapter but a criminal offense which may be prosecuted
in the court of appropriate jurisdiction.
   (C)   In the exercise of its authority under this chapter, the Planning
Commission, or the City of Hurstbourne (if the Planning Commission appoints a
Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer), shall have the power to:
      (1)   Adopt rules and regulations to govern its operation and conduct of
its hearing that are consistent with requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   Conduct hearings to determine whether there has been a violation of
a binding element;
      (3)   Subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings
and all such subpoenas issued by the Planning Commission, or the City of
Hurstbourne (if the Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local
Enforcement Officer), may be served by any Land Use Enforcement Officer;
      (4)   Take testimony under oath and the Chairman of the Planning
Commission, and/or the Mayor of the City of Hurstbourne (if the Planning
Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer), may administer
such oaths to witnesses prior to their testimony before the Planning Commission
on any matter;
      (5)   Make findings and issue orders that are necessary to remedy any
violation of a binding element;
      (6)   Impose civil fines as authorized in this chapter on any person
found to have violated any binding element that the Planning Commission, or the
City of Hurstbourne (if the Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local
Enforcement Officer), is authorized to enforce.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 2-22-00; Am. Ord. 11-03, passed 5-10-11)
§ 154.04 FORM CITATIONS AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings for the violation of a binding element shall
be initiated by the issuance of a citation by a Land Use Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   When a Land Use Enforcement Officer, based upon personal observation
or investigation, has reasonable cause to believe that a violation of a binding
element has occurred, the officer may issue a warning notice and citation to
the offender. Prior to issuing a citation, however, the officer shall issue a
warning notice giving the offender ten days, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays
excluded, in which to remedy the violation. If the person to whom the notice is
given fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the specified time, the
Land Use Enforcement Officer may issue a citation. However, if the violation is
a threat to the public safety, the Land Use Enforcement Officer immediately
shall issue a citation without a prior warning notice.
   (C)   The citation issued by the Land Use Enforcement Officer shall be in a
form prescribed by the Planning Commission, or the City of Hurstbourne (if the
Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer), and
shall contain, in addition to any other information required by the Planning
Commission:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the violation of the binding element was
committed;
      (4)   The facts constituting the violation of the binding element;
      (5)   A specific description of the binding element violated;
      (6)   The name of the Land Use Enforcement Officer;
      (7)   The civil fine that will be imposed for the violation if the person
does not contest the citation;
      (8)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (9)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or to contest the citation within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the
Planning Commission, or the City of Hurstbourne (if the Planning Commission
appoints a Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer), to contest the citation, and
that the determination that a violation was committed shall be final.
   (D)   All citations issued shall be hand-delivered to the alleged violator.
After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Land Use Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Planning Commission, or the City of Hurstbourne (if
the Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer), by
delivering the citation to the administrative official designated by the
Planning Commission, or the City of Hurstbourne (if the Planning Commission
appoints a Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer).
   (E)   When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is issued
shall respond to the citation within 14 days of the date the citation was
issued by either paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting,
in writing, a hearing before the Planning Commission, or the City of
Hurstbourne (if the Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local
Enforcement Officer), to contest the citation. If the person fails to respond
to the citation within 14 days, the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to a hearing to contest the citation and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the Planning
Commission, or the City of Hurstbourne (if the Planning Commission appoints a
Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer), shall enter a final order determining
that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set forth in the
citation.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 2-22-00; Am. Ord. 11-03, passed 5-10-11)
§ 154.05 HEARINGS BEFORE THE PLANNING COMMISSION/HURSTBOURNE.
   (A)   When a hearing before the Planning Commission, or the City of
Hurstbourne (if the Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local
Enforcement Officer), has been requested, the Planning Commission, or the City
of Hurstbourne (if the Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local
Enforcement Officer), through its clerical and administrative staff, shall
schedule a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted within 30 days of the date
of the request, unless the person who requested the hearing requests or agrees
to a continuance not to exceed 30 days. All continuances must receive the
approval of the Planning Commission, or the City of Hurstbourne (if the
Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer). Not less
than seven days before the date set for the hearing, the Planning Commission,
or the City of Hurstbourne (if the Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne
Local Enforcement Officer), shall notify the person who requested the hearing
of the date, time and place of the hearing. The notice may be given by
certified mail, return-receipt requested; by personal delivery; or by leaving
the notice at the person's usual place of residence with an individual residing
therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the notice. Any person requesting a hearing before the Planning Commission, or
the City of Hurstbourne (if the Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne
Local Enforcement Officer), who fails to appear at the time and place set for
the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing to contest
the citation and the determination that a violation was committed shall be
final. In this event, the Planning Commission, or the City of Hurstbourne (if
the Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer),
shall enter a final order determining that the violation was committed and
imposing the civil fine set forth in the citation.
   (B)   Each case before the Planning Commission, or the City of Hurstbourne
(if the Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer),
shall be presented by an attorney who shall be counsel to the Planning
Commission, or the City of Hurstbourne (if the Planning Commission appoints a
Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer).
   (C)   All testimony before the Planning Commission, or the City of
Hurstbourne (if the Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local
Enforcement Officer), shall be under oath and shall be recorded. The Planning
Commission, or the City of Hurstbourne (if the Planning Commission appoints a
Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer), shall take testimony from the Land Use
Enforcement Officer, the alleged offender, and any witnesses to the alleged
violation offered by the Land Use Enforcement Officer or the alleged offender.
Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due process shall be
observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (D)   After the hearing, the Planning Commission, or the City of Hurstbourne
(if the Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer),
shall determine, based on the evidence presented, whether a violation was
committed. When the Planning Commission, or the City of Hurstbourne (if the
Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer),
determines that no violation was committed, an order dismissing the citation
shall be entered. When the Planning Commission, or the City of Hurstbourne (if
the Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer),
determines that a violation has been committed, it shall issue an order
upholding the citation and may order the offender to pay a civil fine in an
amount up to the maximum authorized by this chapter, or may order the offender
to remedy a continuing violation within a specified time to avoid the
imposition of a fine, or both, as authorized herein.
   (E)   Every final order of the Planning Commission, or the City of
Hurstbourne (if the Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local
Enforcement Officer), shall be reduced to writing, which shall include the date
the order was issued, and a copy of the order shall be furnished to the person
named in the citation. If the person named in the citation is not present at
the time a final order of the Planning Commission, or the City of Hurstbourne
(if the Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer),
is issued, the order shall be delivered to that person by certified mail,
return-receipt requested; by personal delivery, or by leaving a copy of the
order at that person's usual place of residence with any individual residing
therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the order.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 2-22-00; Am. Ord. 11-03, passed 5-10-11)
§ 154.06 APPEAL OF PLANNING COMMISSION/HURSTBOURNE ORDERS.
   Any final order issued by the Planning Commission, or the City of
Hurstbourne (if the Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local
Enforcement Officer), with respect to a citation for the violation of a binding
element may be appealed in conformity with KRS 100.413.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 2-22-00; Am. Ord. 11-03, passed 5-10-11)
§ 154.07 PAYMENT OF FINES.
   The person or entity found to have committed a violation of a binding
element shall be responsible for the amount of all fines assessed for the
violation. The Planning Commission may file a civil action in its name against
the person or entity and shall have the remedies provided in KRS 100.415.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 2-22-00; Am. Ord. 11-03, passed 5-10-11)
§ 154.08 CIVIL ACTION.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking
immediate action in the court of appropriate jurisdiction to remedy a violation
of a binding element.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 2-22-00; Am. Ord. 11-03, passed 5-10-11)
§ 154.09 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter as now or later amended or its application
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Ord. 11-03, passed 5-10-11)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates a binding element shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $500 nor more than $4,000 and shall comply with such remedial orders
as may be issued by the Planning Commission, or the City of Hurstbourne (if the
Planning Commission appoints a Hurstbourne Local Enforcement Officer). Each day
during which the binding element violation exists after the period granted by §
154.04 to remedy the violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 2-22-00; Am. Ord. 11-03, passed 5-10-11)
CHAPTER 155: SMALL CELLULAR TOWER SITES
Section
   
155.01   Purpose and objectives
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Permit application submittal requirements
   
155.04   Permitted facilities and locations
   
155.05   Standard requirements
   
155.06   Permit review, renewal and revocation procedures
   
155.07   Cessation of operations
   
155.99   Penalties
§ 155.01 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish requirements and standards for
the development and siting of small cell wireless communications facilities and
ancillary support infrastructure on right-of-way owned by the city. These
regulations are intended to protect and promote public safety, community health
and welfare, and the aesthetic quality of the city while providing for well-
managed development of small cell wireless telecommunications in accordance
with Kentucky and federal law.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 10-8-19)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, the terms used in this chapter shall
have the following meanings:
   “ANCILLARY EQUIPMENT.” Any wires, cables, meter boxes, cable, conduit and
connectors, and any other equipment required to operate and support the
operation of small cell wireless facilities.
   “APPLICANT.” Service providers) of the small cell wireless facilities that
are proposed to be located within the city, or service provider(s)'s authorized
representative.
   “CO-LOCATION or COLLOCATE.” Mounting or installing an antenna on a
preexisting structure and/or modifying a structure for the purpose of mounting
or installing an antenna facility on that structure.
   “DECORATIVE FACILITY.” A structure that is specially designed and placed for
aesthetic purposes to reasonably match its surrounding environment and on which
no appurtenances or attachments, other than a small wireless facility,
lighting, specially designed informational or directional signage, or temporary
holiday or special event attachments, have been placed or are permitted to be
placed according to nondiscriminatory standards.
   “RIGHT-OF-WAY.” All public streets and utility easements, now and hereafter
owned by the City of Hurstbourne.
   “SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITY.” A wireless telecommunications facility that
meets all the following conditions:
      (1)   The facilities: (i) are mounted on structure 50 feet or less in
height including the antennas; or (ii) are mounted on structure no more than
110% taller than other adjacent structures; or (iii) do not extend existing
structures on which they are located to the height of more than 50 feet or by
more than 11%, whoever is greater; and
      (2)   The facility does not require antenna structure registration under
47 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter A, Part 17.
   “TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE.” That by virtue of engineering or spectrum usage the
proposed placement for a small wireless facility, or its design, concealment
measures, or site location can be implemented without a reduction in the
functionality of the small wireless facility.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 10-8-19)
§ 155.03 PERMIT APPLICATION SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance required. No applications for small cell wireless
facilities shall be deemed complete unless the applicant has submitted all
required application materials and applicable fees, as provided by this
section.
   (B)   Site plans and layouts. Applicants shall submit the following
information with the application electronically or by hardcopy. Hardcopy
submittals shall be provided in triplicate.
      (1)   Applicant's name, address, telephone number, e-mail addresses;
      (2)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers and e-mail addresses of all
duly authorized representatives and consultants, if any, acting on behalf of
the applicant with respect to the filing of the application;
      (3)   Map and inventory of proposed sites. Applicant shall provide a map
of the proposed site(s) and photographs of the structure if the installation is
a proposed co-location. Applicant’s map shall show all land uses within 800
feet of the proposed small cell wireless facility sites(s), shown on the map;
      (4)   Photo simulations of small cell facility and ancillary equipment.
Applicant shall show the placement of the proposed small cell wireless
facility, including the placement of any ancillary equipment;
      (5)   Drawings and plans. Applicant shall furnish site plan, plans, and
elevations drawn to scale that identify the proposed small cell wireless
facility and ancillary equipment placement. Elevations shall include all
structures on which facilities are proposed to be located. All proposed
structures, including ancillary equipment, shall be drawn to scale on the
elevations. Site plans shall include depiction of signage required by this
chapter. In addition, site plans showing the existing condition of the
structure and surrounding area shall be prepared and submitted;
      (6)   Camouflage and/or matching methods. Applicant shall provide both a
description of methods proposed to make the installation and all ancillary
equipment a decorative facility and identify its colors and materials
specifications;
      (7)   Identify all ancillary equipment. Plans shall identify any and all
ancillary equipment required to support the small cell wireless facility; and
      (8)   Unless the city waives the requirement in advance for good cause
shown, applicant shall provide notice to any property owner within 150 feet of
any installation of the application via first class mail and provide evidence
of that notice to the city with its application, along with any responses
received from that notice. The city will provide the applicant with any
responses or contacts the city receives in response to such notices.
   (C)   Fee requirements. An application for small cell wireless facilities
shall be accompanied by the following fee payments:
      (1)   Application fee. Application fee of $100 for each installation,
modification or replacement of a pole, or the collocation of an associated
small wireless facility, in the rights- of-way;
      (2)   Annual rate. An applicant authorized to place small wireless
facilities and any related poles in the right-of-way will pay to the city
compensation for use of the rights-of-way and collocation on city structures in
the rights-of-way an aggregate annual rate not to exceed $270 per small
wireless facility. This rate, together with the one-time application fee, shall
be the total compensation that the applicant is required to pay the city for
the deployment of each small wireless facility in the rights-of-way and any
associated pole; and
      (3)   Bonding. Depending on the type, size and number of facilities, as
well as the financial viability of the applicant, the city may require a
reasonable and non-discriminatory bond (or other good and sufficient security
from the applicant), with the application to ensure that the city right-of-way
is undamaged. Further, the city may require that a lesser bond (or other good
and sufficient security from the applicant), remains in place to ensure that
the facilities will be properly removed when no longer in use.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 10-8-19)
§ 155.04 PERMITTED FACILITIES AND LOCATIONS.
   Subject to compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter, small
cell wireless facilities, pursuant to an approved permit issued by the city in
compliance with this chapter, shall be permitted on the right-of-way of the
City of Hurstbourne, upon the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   Public right-of-way. Small cell wireless facilities in the public
right-of-way in all zoning districts shall be in accordance with the following
preferences. The preferred approaches for design and siting of new small cell
wireless facilities in the public right- of-way are ranked as indicated in the
following lists. When a lower ranked alternative is proposed, the applicant
must include technical information demonstrating that a higher ranked option is
not feasible considering the provider's service objectives. Any claim of
infeasibility shall be supported by substantial evidence.
      (1)   Collocation on existing light poles;
      (2)   Collocation on any other existing utility poles;
      (3)   Collocation on any other existing pole, or an existing structure in
the public right-of-way; and
      (4)   Location on a new pole of any kind.
   (B)   The city may propose an alternative location for proposed facilities
from the proposed location. City shall provide applicant a written explanation
of the reason the city believes the alternate location is preferable. The
applicant shall then: (a) accept the city's recommendation; (b) identify
another alternate location and provide a written explanation why that alternate
is preferable; or (c) provide written explanation why it continues to believe
the original location remains the best alternative. The Facilities Operator
shall utilize the alternate location unless the Facilities Operator shows that
the alternate location is not feasible. Negotiation must occur within the
timeframe set forth in §
155.06 to identify a mutually agreed location.
   (C)   No more than one small cell installation for any provider shall be
permitted per each 1,000 feet along a city right-of-way; unless applicant
provides technical information demonstrating that application of this
limitation is not feasible considering the applicant's service objectives. Any
claim of infeasibility shall be supported by substantial evidence.
   (D)   Facilities shall not interfere with existing or planned street trees,
landscaping and irrigation.
   (E)   Encroachment permit. An applicant seeking to install, construct,
operate, or perform work related to small cell wireless facilities in the
public right-of-way shall also obtain a revocable encroachment permit from the
city prior to commencing work.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 10-8-19) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.05 STANDARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   State or federal requirements. Small cell wireless facilities,
including ancillary equipment, must meet or exceed current standards and
regulations of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), all applicable
federal, state, and local health and safety regulations, including the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 12101 et seq.), and all
other agencies of the state or federal government with the regulatory authority
over small cell wireless facilities. Federal law prohibits city from denying a
permit if doing so would prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the
provision of personal wireless services. If, at any time, the state or federal
standards are modified, then applicant shall bring any and all permitted
facilities into compliance with current standards and regulations within three
months of the effective date of such modified standards and regulations, unless
a different compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling state or federal
agency. Failure to bring permitted facilities into compliance with such revised
standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the revocation of city
permit and require removal of the small cell facility at the service provider's
expense.
   (B)   Building codes and safety standards. The applicant shall ensure the
structural integrity of its small cell wireless facilities installed within the
city, and shall ensure that the facilities are maintained in compliance with
standards contained in applicable state or local building codes, Louisville
Metro Land Development Code and the applicable standards for small cell
wireless facilities that are published by the Electronic Industries
Association, as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the city
determines that a facility fails to comply with such codes and standards and
constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being provided to
the applicant of the facility, the applicant shall have 15 days to bring such
facility into compliance with such standards. Failure to bring such facility
into compliance within the required time shall constitute grounds for the
revocation of city permit and removal of the small cell facility at the owner's
expense.
   (C)   Radio frequency emissions standards. Applicants shall confirm that the
projected radio frequency emissions from any and all permitted small cell
wireless facilities comply with applicable safety standard specified in 47
C.F.R. 1.1307(b). Such information shall be submitted with permit application
materials and annually thereafter if requested by the city.
   (D)   Operation and maintenance standards. All small cell wireless
facilities shall always comply with the following standards in addition to any
other conditions required by permits issued pursuant to this chapter.
      (1)   Except as provided in this chapter, an applicant shall not install
signs, display logos, or run advertisement on, alongside, or in connection with
a permitted facility.
      (2)   Every permitted facility shall contain signage listing the name and
contact information for an emergency contact individual or service. The signage
shall comply with design, material, color and location requirements as stated
in the applicable encroachment permit. Contact information listed on the sign
shall be kept current and promptly be provided to the city.
      (3)   Each permitted facility and any ancillary equipment shall be
maintained in good working condition and appearance, free from trash, debris,
litter and graffiti and other forms of vandalism. Any damage from any cause
shall be repaired as soon as reasonably possible to minimize occurrences of
dangerous conditions or visual blight. Graffiti shall be removed from any
facility or equipment as soon as practicable, and in no instance more than 48
hours from the time of receipt of city notice.
      (4)   Except for emergency repairs, testing and maintenance activities
shall only occur between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on Monday through
Friday, excluding holidays.
      (5)   Each facility shall install the following security measures:
         (a)   An on-site emergency "kill switch" to de-energize all radio
frequency circuits and components of each permitted facility in order to
protect emergency response personnel;
         (b)   Necessary safety measures to prevent unauthorized access,
vandalism, and other safety concerns. Installations must comply with design
standards, described herein and nuisance regulations, and must not interfere
with city emergency services or transmission.
      (6)   Except for public improvement projects undertaken primarily for
beautification, each facility shall be relocated at applicant's sole cost, upon
demand by city with reasonable notice, to allow for public improvement projects
which are necessary for the public's health and safety.
      (7)   Applicant shall, at its sole cost, be responsible for repairing to
city standard specifications or replacing in-kind any city facilities or
improvements disturbed or damaged during the installation, maintenance,
operation, repair or removal of applicant's small cell wireless facilities,
ancillary equipment, and any support infrastructure. City facilities or
improvements covered by this division include, but are not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Curb, gutter, sidewalk, storm drains, and pavements;
         (b)   Landscaping; and
         (c)   Structures, buildings, light poles and fixtures.
   (E)   Electrical metering and structural standards. All small cell wireless
facilities shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   All electrical power required by small cell wireless facility
installations shall be metered independently from any anticipated or existing
city projects or facilities.
      (2)   All existing city-owned street light poles proposed for small cell
wireless facility installations shall be inspected prior to installation in
accordance with the most recent city structural standards for street light
poles, including but not limited to safety and load bearing capability for the
small cell wireless facility to be installed, as approved by the City Engineer.
         (a)   Applicants requesting to install a small cell wireless facility
on city-owned streetlight poles shall provide documentation demonstrating that
the pole proposed for installation meets or exceeds such city standards.
         (b)   If the city-owned streetlight pole proposed for a small cell
wireless facility installation does not meet or exceed structural standards, no
small cell wireless facility may be installed thereon. Alternatively, the
applicant may at its own cost replace the existing streetlight pole at the
proposed installation location with a pole that meets or exceeds the city's
structural standards including safety and load bearing capability or capacity
and complies with all other applicable legal requirements. Any existing
lighting fixture shall be reinstalled on the new pole at applicant's cost.
Applicant shall be responsible to coordinate electrification of the new
installation with the utility provider, including independent metering of
electrical power required for applicant's installations as provided herein.
Upon installation, the new pole shall become the property of the city.
   (F)   Small cell wireless facilities and any ancillary equipment shall be
located and designed to be a decorative facility and blend with the existing
natural or built surroundings, provided, however, the obligation to install
decorative facilities in the right-of-way shall be applied uniformly and non-
discriminatorily and shall be no more burdensome than the requirements applied
to similar types of infrastructure deployments for other utility installations
which are similarly situated. Applicant cannot remove or damage any city
landscaping and may be required by the city to install buffering landscaping.
   (G)   Ancillary equipment. Ancillary equipment and any support facilities
for small cell wireless facilities located in the public right-of-way shall be
installed in accordance with the following preferences, ordered from most
preferred to least preferred: (i) underground in any area in which the existing
utilities are primarily located underground; (ii) on the pole or support
structure; or (iii) integrated into the base of the pole or support structure.
Applications that involve lesser-preferred installation locations may be
approved so long as the applicant demonstrates that the more preferred
installation location would be technically infeasible. Any claim of
infeasibility shall be supported by substantial evidence. If undergrounding of
ancillary equipment is not possible, all such equipment shall be located within
a decorative facility, and shall comply with all applicable laws, including but
not limited to the American Disabilities Act.
   (H)   Pole designs. Subject to division (F) of this section, small cell
wireless facility pole installations shall be a decorative facility. Each
installation shall be sufficiently designed and engineered such that no
additional supporting hardware is required beyond the pole itself. A small cell
wireless facility that is affixed to an existing light pole shall be painted
and/or textured to match that structure.
   (I)   Non-reflective materials. Small cell wireless facilities shall be
constructed out of non-reflective materials (visible exterior surfaces only),
or materials and colors consistent with surrounding backdrop. Anodized metal is
an acceptable treatment.
   (J)   Design preservation. Applicants are responsible for maintaining and
preserving design and aesthetic features for each facility, ancillary equipment
and any support infrastructure, including but not limited to color, tint,
shade, treatment, painting, surface treatment, replacement landscaping,
decorative facility design, and concealment.
   (K)   Security fencing. Under no circumstances shall security fencing be
permitted.
   (L)   Volume. Each individual antenna may not exceed three cubic feet in
volume and all other equipment associated with a small wireless facility shall
be no more than 28 cubic feet in volume. The volume calculation shall include
any shroud, cabinet or other concealment device used in connection with the
non-antenna accessory equipment. The volume calculation shall not include any
equipment or other improvements placed underground.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 10-8-19) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.06 PERMIT REVIEW, RENEWAL AND REVOCATION PROCEDURES.
   The City Commission shall review an application subject to this chapter
considering its conformity with applicable provisions of this chapter, and
shall issue a permit on nondiscriminatory terms and conditions subject to the
following requirements:
   (A)   For an initial application, the city shall notify the applicant in
writing on or before the tenth day of submission if the application is
materially incomplete. In the written notice that the application is
incomplete, the city must clearly and specifically identify all the missing
documents or information and must specify the related code provision,
ordinance, application instruction or otherwise publicly stated procedures
related to missing information;
   (B)   If the city notifies the applicant in writing that the application is
incomplete in accordance with division (A), the processing deadline in division
(C) shall restart at zero on the date the applicant submits all the documents
and information identified by the Director to render the application complete;
   (C)   The city shall make its final decision to approve or deny a complete
application within: (i) 60 days of receiving an application for the collocation
of a small wireless facility using an existing structure; and (ii) 90 days for
an application to locate a small wireless facility on a new structure. These
timelines may be tolled only by mutual agreement between the applicant and the
city; and
   (D)   The city must advise the applicant in writing of its final decision,
and if the final decision is to deny the application, the final decision
document shall state the basis for a denial, including specific code provisions
on which the denial was based, and send the decision document to the applicant
on or before the day the city denies the application.
   (E)   The city must process all applications on a nondiscriminatory basis
and may only deny an application subject to this chapter if the proposed small
wireless facility or new, modified, or replaced pole:
      (1)   Materially and demonstrably interferes with the safe operation of
traffic control equipment;
      (2)   Materially and demonstrably interferes with sight lines or clear
zones for transportation or pedestrians;
      (3)   Materially fails to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act
or similar federal or state standards regarding pedestrian access or movement;
      (4)   Applicant refuses to comply with the city's preferred locations in
§
155.04(A) herein;
      (5)   Fails to comply with applicable codes; or
      (6)   Fails to comply with the provisions in this chapter.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 10-8-19) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.07 CESSATION OF OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Voluntary cessation. Applicants intending to vacate a small cell
wireless facility site shall notify the city of this intent to vacate at least
30 days prior to the vacation.
   (B)   Abandonment. A permit for a small cell wireless facility that is not
operated for a continuous period of six months shall be deemed lapsed and the
site will be considered abandoned unless:
      (1)   The city has received notice from the same operator of intent to
resume operations within six months; or
      (2)   The city has received an application to transfer the permit to
another service provider.
      (3)   Removal of facilities and restoration of site. No later than 90
days from the date a small cell wireless facility has ceased operation, or from
the date of receipt of the applicant's notice of its intent to vacate the site,
the applicant or its authorized agent of the abandoned small cell wireless
facility shall remove all equipment and improvements associated with the use,
and shall restore the site to its original condition as shown on the plans
submitted with the original approved application. The owner or agent shall
provide written verification of the removal of the small cell wireless facility
within 30 days of the date the removal is completed.
   (C)   Failure to remove and restore. A small cell wireless facility that is
not removed and the site has not been restored in accordance with the
requirements stated above, the site shall be deemed to be a nuisance pursuant
to city ordinance. The city may cause the facility to be removed at the owners'
expense or by calling any bond or other financial assurance to pay for removal.
      (1)   For a single structure occupied by two or more users, this division
shall not apply while at least one user continues to actively use the
structure.
   (D)   Destruction of pole or city discontinuation of use. If a city-owned
structure upon which a small cell wireless facility is located is damaged,
destroyed, or demolished by acts beyond city's control, the right for such
small cell wireless facility to continue occupying the structure shall cease.
Applicant may opt to construct a pole or structure to replace the damaged,
destroyed or demolished city structure in compliance with the requirements of
this chapter, including structural inspection and separate metering
requirements.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 10-8-19) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Upon the failure of any entity to properly repair and restore any cut,
excavation, or alternation to the city right-of-way, or fail to maintain any
facility placed in the right-of-way, the city may authorize the repair or
restoration of the area in a proper manner and charge said cost to the entity
who violated this chapter (and/or the entity upon whose behalf the work was
done). In the event the city must make the repair or restoration, in addition
to its other remedies, the city shall have a lien under the authority of KRS
65.8840 for the abatement of nuisance conditions against any property of said
entities (if any) that the work directly benefits, or on whose behalf it was
undertaken. The lien shall be recorded in the Jefferson County Clerk's office
and shall bear interest at 12% per annum thereafter until paid.
   (B)   In addition to the remedies set out above, the city shall cite any
person, utility, company or entity for each violation of this chapter in an
amount not more than $500 per violation. Each day of violation shall be
considered a separate offense. Further, if deemed necessary by the city to
protect the public ways and public utilities of the city any entity repeatedly
violating this chapter may be denied permission to make any future cuts or
excavations until it fully remedies past violations and pays any outstanding
fines.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 10-8-19)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date     Description
                  Annexing certain territory beginning at a pipe in the east
8-1983   11-22-82 right-of-way line of Lyndon Lane, at the southwest line of
                  Hurstbourne, containing 105.086 acres
                 
 
TABLE II: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date   Description
88-14    7-8-88 Changing the name of Chadwick Road to South Chadwick Road.
               
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date     Description
                  Changing the zoning classification of property located at 250
95-01    1-22-95  Whittington Parkway from OR-3 Office/Residential and C-
                  2 Commercial to C-1 Commercial.
                  Changing the zoning classification of property located at
98-08    12-22-98 9270 and 9300 Blairwood Road from R-4 Residential Single-
                  Family to OR-3.
                  Changing the zoning classification of property located at
2000-03  2--00    9501 Blairwood Road from R-6 Multi-Family Residential to C-
                  1 Commercial.
                  Changing the zoning classification of property located at
09-01    5-12-09  1400 S. Hurstbourne Parkway from C- 1 Commercial to C-
                  2 Commercial.
                  Changing the zoning classification of parcels at 9502 and
11-01    2-22-11  9505 Williamsburg Plaza, 420 and 500 S. Hurstbourne Parkway,
                  and 320, 330 and 340 Whittington Parkway from OR-3, C-1, and
                  C-2 to C-2 Commercial.
                 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 1982 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section             Code Section
Section 43, Ky. Const.  32.47
                        31.01(A),
                        31.36(D),
Section 228, Ky. Const. 31.37(B),
                        31.38(B),
                        40.04
6.050                   32.47
13A                     93.02
15.420                  92.66
16.220                  72.22
                        34.16 ,
Ch. 31                  139.01,
                        139.03
41.240                  33.38
41.240(4)               33.05,
                        33.34
42.450 - 42.495         33.04(C)
Ch. 44                  111.18
Ch. 45A                 34.16
Ch. 56                  34.16
Ch. 61                  32.21 
61.168                  34.16
61.169                  34.16
61.362                  76.01
61.805 et seq.          32.21(F)
61.8223(2) - (4)        91.15
61.870 - 61.882         31.36
61.870 - 61.884         34.17,
                        37.89
61.870                  34.01
61.870(10)              34.05
61.872                  38.20
61.872(4)               34.06
61.872(5)               34.07
61.872(6)               34.08
61.874(1) - (3)         34.12
61.874(3), (4)          34.13
61.874(5)               34.14
61.874(6)               34.15
                        34.01,
61.878                  34.12,
                        34.16
61.878(1)               34.16
61.880                  34.09,
                        34.16
61.884                  34.11
62.020                  31.01
65.003                  38.03
65.067                  31.01
65.120                  72.01
65.870                  Ch. 136
                        40.01,
65.8801 - 65.8839       40.02,
                        40.14
65.8805                 92.66
65.8815(5)              40.05
                        92.04,
65.8840                 92.34,
                        155.99
66.480                  33.30,
                        33.34
Ch. 78                  37.40
78.510(21)              37.40
81.050                  30.01
82.082                  38.03
Ch. 83A                 30.01
83A.010(3)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(7)              10.02
83A.030(2)              30.02(B)
83A.040(1),(2)          31.21
83A.040(2)(b)           31.21
83A.040(2)(d)           31.21
83A.040(3)              31.21
83A.040(4)              32.01
83A.040(5)              32.01
83A.040(6)              31.21,
                        32.01
83A.040(7)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(8)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(9)              31.03
83A.045(2)(b)           31.20(H)
83A.050                 31.20
83A.050(2)              31.20(B)
83A.060(1)              32.35
83A.060(2)              32.36
83A.060(3)              32.37
83A.060(4),(7)          32.25,
                        32.38
83A.060(5)              32.40
83A.060(6)              32.22
83A.060(8)              32.40,
                        32.41
83A.060(9)              32.42
83A.060(10)             32.43
83A.060(11)             32.44
83A.060(12),(13)        32.45
83A.060(14)             32.46
83A.060(15)             32.47
                        10.99,
83A.065                 39.01,
                        72.99A,
                        92.99
83A.070                 31.02
83A.075                 31.02
83A.080                 38.04
83A.080(1)              31.35
                        31.03,
83A.080(2)              31.20,
                        31.35
83A.080(3)              31.20,
                        31.35
83A.080(4)              31.20
83A.080(5)              31.20
83A.085                 31.36(A)
83A.090                 31.36(A),
                        32.04
83A.140 - 83A.150       37.21
83A.140                 30.01,
                        37.01
83A.140(2)              30.02(A)
83A.140(3)              32.03(A)
83A.140(4)              31.21(D), (E),
                        32.20
83A.140(5)              32.03(B)
83A.140(6)              32.04
83A.140(7)              32.21
83A.140(8)              32.03(C), (D), (E)
83A.170                 31.20(A)
83A.175                 31.20,
                        32.02
91A.010(6)              33.01
91A.010(7)              33.01
91A.010(8)              10.02
91A.020                 33.02
91A.030                 33.03
91A.040                 33.04
91A.050                 33.04
                        33.05,
91A.060                 33.30,
                        33.36,
                        33.38
91A.200                 33.11(A)
91A.210                 33.10
91A.220                 33.11
91A.230                 33.12
91A.240                 33.13
91A.250                 33.14
91A.260                 33.15
91A.270                 33.16
91A.280                 33.17
91A.290                 33.18
92.310                  112.06
100.401 - 100.417       154.02
100.413                 154.06
100.415                 154.07
Chs. 116-121            31.20(A)
Ch. 118                 31.20(H)
131.010(6)              114.04
Ch. 136                 116.01
174.100                 91.15
174.100(1)              91.16
174.100(2)              91.17
174.100(3)              91.18
174.100(4)              91.19
174.100(5)              91.20
177.830 - 177.890       153.02
186A.145                72.22
186A.190                72.22
Ch. 189                 71.61 ;
                        76.04
189.010                 71.60
189.020                 71.27
189.283                 71.62
189.283(a)              71.60
189.283(f)              71.60
189.286                 71.60 ;
                        76.04
189.286(3)(c)           76.03
189.330(8)              71.02
189.338                 70.15
189.450(5), (6)         72.03
189.570(21)             70.31
189.580                 71.15
189.635(8)(b)1.a. to e. 34.01
189.700                 76.01
189.820                 71.61 ;
                        76.03
189.930                 71.26
189.990 et seq.         Ch. 74, Sch. I
189.993(8)              71.99(B)
190.010(8)              92.04
196.099                 34.01
198B.990(1)             150.99(A)
218A.010 - 218A.1444    92.66
218B.010                119.01
222.202                 92.66
227.550                 92.04
227.700 to 227.750      93.01,
                        93.05
227.700                 93.01
                        93.01,
227.702                 93.02,
                        93.06
227.704                 93.01
227.706                 93.01
227.708                 93.01
227.710                 93.02
227.715                 93.02,
                        93.06
227.720                 93.03
227.730                 93.04
227.740                 93.04
227.750                 93.05
227.990(4)              93.99(A)
Ch. 241 - 244           40.07,
                        111.99
Ch. 241                 111.01
241.160                 31.36(A)
Ch. 243                 111.01
243.020                 111.19
243.042                 111.10,
                        111.11
243.070                 111.07
243.082                 111.10,
                        111.11
243.084                 111.10,
                        111.11
243.360                 111.02
243.480                 40.07
243.490                 40.07
243.630                 111.09
Ch. 244                 111.01,
                        111.13
244.050                 111.15
244.083                 111.14
244.150                 111.17
257.100                 90.06
257.100(4)              90.01
Ch. 281                 72.21
281.605(12)             72.22
281.928                 72.22
Ch. 304                 37.58
304.39-080              71.61 ;
                        76.04
318.990                 150.99
Ch. 335B                37.22
Ch. 344                 37.80
376.275(1)-(4)          72.22
403.763                 92.66
                        32.42(A),
Ch. 424                 33.04,
                        33.15
424.220                 33.04(B),(E)
431.005                 31.40
431.015                 31.40
436.600                 90.04,
                        90.99(C)
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(23)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03(A)
446.020(2)              10.03(B)
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03(C)
446.080(3)              10.03(D)
446.080(4)              10.03(E)
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
506.010                 Ch. 138
506.030                 Ch. 138
506.040                 Ch. 138
506.080                 Ch. 138
506.120                 Ch. 138
507.020                 92.66 ,
                        Ch. 130
507.030                 92.66 ,
                        Ch. 130
507.040                 92.66 ,
                        Ch. 130
507.050                 92.66 ,
                        Ch. 130
508.010                 Ch. 130
508.010 - 508.160       92.66
508.020                 Ch. 130
508.025                 Ch. 130
508.030                 Ch. 130
508.040                 Ch. 130
508.050                 Ch. 130
508.060                 Ch. 130
508.070                 Ch. 130
508.080                 Ch. 130
508.100                 Ch. 130
508.110                 Ch. 130
508.120                 Ch. 130
509.020                 Ch. 130
509.030                 Ch. 130
509.040                 Ch. 130
509.070                 Ch. 130
509.080                 Ch. 130
510.010 - 510.155       92.66
510.040                 Ch. 137
510.050                 Ch. 137
510.060                 Ch. 137
510.070                 Ch. 137
510.080                 Ch. 137
510.090                 Ch. 137
510.100                 Ch. 137
510.110                 Ch. 137
510.120                 Ch. 137
510.130                 Ch. 137
510.140                 Ch. 137
510.150                 Ch. 137
511.010 - 511.090       92.66
511.020                 Ch. 132
511.030                 Ch. 132
511.040                 Ch. 132
511.050                 Ch. 132
511.060                 Ch. 132
511.070                 Ch. 132
511.080                 Ch. 132
512.010 - 512.060       92.66
512.020                 Ch. 132
512.030                 Ch. 132
512.050                 Ch. 132
512.060                 Ch. 132
512.070                 Ch. 132
512.080                 Ch. 132
513.010 - 513.040       92.66
513.020                 Ch. 132
513.030                 Ch. 132
513.040                 Ch. 132
513.060                 Ch. 132
514.010 - 514.090       92.66
514.030                 Ch. 132
514.040                 Ch. 132
514.050                 Ch. 132
514.060                 Ch. 132
514.065                 Ch. 132
514.070                 Ch. 132
514.080                 Ch. 132
514.090                 Ch. 132
514.100                 Ch. 132
514.110                 92.66 ,
                        Ch. 132
514.120                 Ch. 132
514.140                 Ch. 132
514.150                 Ch. 132
515.010 - 515.030       92.66
515.020                 Ch. 132
515.030                 Ch. 132
516.020                 Ch. 132
516.030                 Ch. 132
516.040                 Ch. 132
516.050                 Ch. 132
516.060                 Ch. 132
516.070                 Ch. 132
516.090                 Ch. 132
516.110                 Ch. 132
516.120                 Ch. 132
516.130                 Ch. 132
519.020                 Ch. 135
519.030                 Ch. 135
519.040                 Ch. 135
519.050                 Ch. 135
519.060                 Ch. 135
520.010                 34.01
520.020                 Ch. 135
520.030                 Ch. 135
520.040                 Ch. 135
520.050                 Ch. 135
520.060                 Ch. 135
520.070                 Ch. 135
520.080                 Ch. 135
520.090                 Ch. 135
520.100                 Ch. 135
520.120                 Ch. 135
520.130                 Ch. 135
521.020                 Ch. 135
521.030                 Ch. 135
521.040                 Ch. 135
522.020                 Ch. 135
522.030                 Ch. 135
522.040                 Ch. 135
523.020                 Ch. 135
523.030                 Ch. 135
523.040                 Ch. 135
523.100                 Ch. 135
524.020                 Ch. 135
524.030                 Ch. 135
524.040                 Ch. 135
524.045                 Ch. 135
524.050                 Ch. 135
524.060                 Ch. 135
524.070                 Ch. 135
524.080                 Ch. 135
524.090                 Ch. 135
524.100                 Ch. 135
524.110                 Ch. 135
524.120                 Ch. 135
524.130                 Ch. 135
525.020                 Ch. 136
525.030                 Ch. 136
525.040                 Ch. 136
525.050                 Ch. 136
525.055                 92.66
525.060                 92.66 ,
                        Ch. 136
525.070                 Ch. 136
525.070 - 525.080       92.66
525.080                 Ch. 136
525.090                 Ch. 136
525.100                 92.66 ,
                        Ch. 136
525.110                 Ch. 136
525.120                 Ch. 136
                        90.03,
525.125                 90.07,
                        Ch. 136
                        90.03,
525.130                 90.07,
                        90.99(B),
                        Ch. 136
525.135                 90.07
525.140                 Ch. 136
525.150                 Ch. 136
525.155                 Ch. 136
525.160                 Ch. 136
526.020                 Ch. 136
526.030                 Ch. 136
526.040                 Ch. 136
526.050                 Ch. 136
526.060                 Ch. 136
527.010 - 527.210       92.66
528.020                 Ch. 134
528.030                 Ch. 134
528.040                 Ch. 134
528.050                 Ch. 134
528.060                 Ch. 134
528.070                 Ch. 134
528.080                 Ch. 134
528.110                 Ch. 134
528.120                 Ch. 134
529.010 - 529.110       92.66
529.020                 Ch. 133
529.040                 Ch. 133
529.070                 Ch. 133
529.080                 Ch. 133
530.010                 Ch. 131
530.020                 Ch. 131
530.030                 Ch. 131
530.040                 Ch. 131
530.050                 Ch. 131
530.060                 Ch. 131
530.060 - 530.080       92.66
530.064                 Ch. 131
530.065                 Ch. 131
530.070                 Ch. 131
530.080                 Ch. 131
531.010 - 531.110       92.66
531.020                 Ch. 133
531.030                 Ch. 133
531.040                 Ch. 133
531.050                 Ch. 133
531.060                 Ch. 133
531.300 - 531.370       92.66
531.310                 Ch. 133
531.320                 Ch. 133
531.340                 Ch. 133
531.350                 Ch. 133
531.360                 Ch. 133
531.370                 Ch. 133
532.060(1)              139.04
532.060(2)              139.04
532.060(5)              139.04
532.090                 139.02
534.030                 139.03
534.040                 10.99,
                        139.01
                        
 
REFERENCES TO 1982 CODE
1982 Code Section Code Section
1982 Code Section Code Section
1.1               30.01
1.2(a)            30.02(A)
1.2(b)            31.20(A)
1.3               32.03(A)
1.4               31.21(D),(E)
1.5               32.03(B)
1.6               35.01
1.7(a)            31.36
1.7(b)            31.38
1.7(c)            31.37
                  31.01(B),
1.7(d)            31.36 -
                  31.38
1.7(e)            31.36 -
                  31.38
1.8(b)            32.21
1.8(c)            32.22
1.8(d)            32.23
1.8(e)            32.24
1.8(f)            32.25
1.8(g)            32.26
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.                Date Passed Description
                                    30.01,
                                    30.02(A),
                                    31.01(B),
                                    31.20(A),
                                    31.21(D),(E),
1-1983                  9-12-82     31.36 -
                                    31.38,
                                    32.03(A),(B),
                                    32.21 -
                                    32.27,
                                    35.01
6-1983                  11-20-82    32.21(A)
7-1983                  11-22-83    33.03(N)
8-1983                  11-22-82    T.S.O. I
                                    31.01(B),
13-83                   12-9-83     31.36 -
                                    31.38
84-7                    5-11-87     Ch. 75, Sch. I
84-10                   8-10-84     Ch. 75, Sch. I
85-1                    2-8-85      Ch. 75, Sch. I
85-5                    12-13-85    150.01,
                                    150.02
85-6                    1-10-86     Ch. 74, Sch. I
86-2                    2-14-86     31.04
                                    31.01(B),
86-9                    5-9-86      31.36 -
                                    31.38
                                    31.01(B),
86-11                   6-13-86     31.36 -
                                    31.38
87-04                   6-12-87     152.01
87-7                    9-11-87     33.06
88-04                   7-8-88      T.S.O. II
89-4                    9-8-89      Adopting Ordinance
90.01                   - -         32.21(E),(F)
                                    51.10 -
90.02                   2-9-90      51.12;
                                    51.99
90-05                   7-13-90     152.01
90-07                   10-12-90    Ch. 114
91-01                   2-8-91      Adopting Ordinance
91-02                   2-8-91      32.21
91-03                   3-19-91     31.20
91-05                   4-16-91     32.21
91-06                   4-16-91     32.21
                                    37.01 -
                                    37.05,
                                    37.20,
                                    37.21,
                                    37.30,
                                    37.34 -
                                    37.36,
92-05                   11-19-92    37.40,
                                    37.41,
                                    37.43,
                                    37.50 -
                                    37.53,
                                    37.55,
                                    37.57 -
                                    37.63
92-06                   12-17-92    Ch. 115
93-01                   5-20-93     Ch. 115
94-01                   1-21-94     32.21
94-02                   1-21-94     32.21
                                    72.06,
94-06                   12-16-94    72.99,
                                    72.99A
94-08                   12-16-94    72.13
94-09                   12-16-94    92.99
94-10                   12-16-94    31.40
94-11                   12-16-94    Ch. 38
95-01                   1-22-95     T.S.O. III
95-02                   5-8-95      32.21
                                    92.15 -
96-03                   9-23-96     92.19,
                                    92.99
96-05                   10-28-96    72.06
97-01                   3-24-97     153.01 -
                                    153.06
                                    153.20 -
97-02                   3-24-97     153.25,
                                    153.98,
                                    153.99
97-07                   7-28-97     31.36
97-08                   - -97       152.01
98-01                   1-26-98     152.01
98-02                   2-11-98     31.36
98-06                   6-8-98      37.63
98-07                   10-12-98    32.21
98-08                   12-22-98    T.S.O. III
2000-02                 2-22-00     151.01
2000-03                 2--00       T.S.O. III
                                    154.01 -
2000-04                 3-30-00     154.08,
                                    154.99
02-07                   10-8-02     72.06
02-06                   12-10-02    152.01
04-02                   4-13-04     10.99;
                                    Ch. 39
04-04                   4-13-04     31.02
04-03                   4-13-04     90.16
06-04                   12-12-06    32.21
                                    92.50 -
07-03                   7-10-07     92.58,
                                    92.99
07-04                   12-11-07    114.01 -
                                    114.05
                                    117.01 -
07-05                   12-11-07    117.04,
                                    117.99
08-02                   5-13-08     Adopting Ordinance
09-01                   5-12-09     T.S.O. III
                                    92.30 -
09-06                   8-11-09     92.36,
                                    92.99
                                    150.20 -
09-07                   8-11-09     150.23,
                                    150.99
09-08                   12-8-09     153.02
09-09                   12-8-09     152.01
10-03                   9-28-10     150.21
11-01                   2-22-11     T.S.O. III
                                    91.01,
11-02                   2-22-11     91.02,
                                    91.99
                                    154.01 -
11-03                   5-10-11     154.09,
                                    154.99
                                    116.01 -
11-06                   5-24-11     116.04,
                                    116.99
                                    112.02,
11-07                   6-14-11     112.04 -
                                    112.11,
                                    112.99
11-08                   6-28-11     72.01,
                                    72.13
11-09                   8-23-11     93.22,
                                    93.99
                                    37.01 -
                                    37.05,
                                    37.20,
                                    37.21,
                                    37.30,
                                    37.34 -
                                    37.36,
11-11                   12-7-11     37.40,
                                    37.41,
                                    37.43,
                                    37.50 -
                                    37.53,
                                    37.55,
                                    37.57 -
                                    37.63
                                    111.01 -
                                    111.06,
                                    111.08,
12-01                   2-28-12     110.09,
                                    111.13 -
                                    111.23,
                                    111.99
12-02                   5-22-12     150.21
                                    32.03,
12-05                   9-25-12     35.02 -
                                    35.05
12–06                 9-25-12     33.30 -
                                    33.40
                                    112.01 -
13-01                   2-26-13     112.11,
                                    112.99
                                    91.02,
13-02                   3-12-13     91.03,
                                    91.06,
                                    91.31
13-06                   10-8-13     111.07
13-07                   10-8-13     32.03
                                    37.31,
                                    37.40,
15-04                   6-23-15     37.41,
                                    37.43,
                                    37.51,
                                    37.58
16-07                   6-28-16     91.45 -
                                    91.50
16-08                   10-11-16    91.01,
                                    91.02
17-01                   - -         40.01 -
                                    41.17
17-02                   - -         111.10,
                                    111.11
                                    112.01 -
17-5                    10-10-17    112.11,
                                    112.99
17-6                    10-24-17    71.60 -
                                    71.63
18-05                   6-12-18     151.01
                                    155.01 -
19-04                   10-8-19     155.07,
                                    155.99
20-03, Series 2020      4-14-20     31.02
                                    76.01  -
20-06, Series 2020      7-28-20     76.04 ,
                                    76.99
                                    153.01 ,
                                    153.06 ,
21-02                   2-23-21     153.21 ,
                                    153.25 ,
                                    153.98
                                    70.30 ,
21-03                   2-23-21     70.31 ,
                                    70.99
21-06, Series 2021      5-25-21     150.24 ,
                                    150.99
                                    34.01 ,
21-07                   7-27-21     34.05 ,
                                    34.07 ,
                                    34.09
22-1                    2-8-22      92.65  -
                                    92.70
                                    118.01  -
22-03                   3-22-22     118.03 ,
                                    118.99
22-04, Series 2022      4-12-22     31.02
2023-23-01              4-25-23     72.03
                                    37.01 -
                                    37.08,
                                    37.20 -
                                    37.22,
                                    37.30 -
2023-23-05, Series 2023 12-12-23    37.37,
                                    37.40 -
                                    37.43,
                                    37.50 -
                                    37.64,
                                    37.80 -
                                    37.91
24-04                   8-27-24     119.01
25-02, Series 2025      4-22-25     150.20 ,
                                    150.21
25-03, Series 2025      5-3-25      90.08
                                   
 
