CITY OF IRVINE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through local ordinance 24-07, passed 3-11-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY OF IRVINE, KENTUCKY
(2024)
MAYOR
James Gross
COUNCIL
Justin Abney
Billy Arthur
Tommy Bryant
William Burkhart
Kris Lee
Aaron Raider
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS
Nancy Abney
Amber Lee
Stacy Noland
Chris Winkler
Ellen Woolery
PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
Justin Abney
Kenny Brakefield
Kevin Turpin
OFFICIALS
 
Tim Barnhart     Building Administrative Officer
Rodney Davis     City Attorney
Felicia Campbell City Clerk
John Sturniolo   Police Chief
Justin Patrick   Fire Chief
Calvin Plowman   Street/Sanitation Supervisor
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
Irvine Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Irvine irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Estill County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Irvine, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers and other persons with similar authority to
make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city or district or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and legally
closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days just
mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060) (Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional, the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090) (Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100) (Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110) (Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.32 should be used by the city to amend, add or repeal a chapter, section or
division of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example:
§ 31.002 COMPENSATION.
   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city officer
not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer is
elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed after his or
her election or during his or her term of office.
   (KRS 83A.070(1))
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 10.99)
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
37.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
38.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
39.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan.”
(KRS 83A.130(1)) (Prior Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or
city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of six members.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001    Oath
   
31.002   Compensation
   
31.003   Removal from office
   
31.004   Bond
Elected Officials
   
31.015   Election procedure
   
31.016   Mayor
   
31.017   Council members
   
31.018   Mayor Pro Tempore
   
31.019   Continuity of government
Non-Elected City Officials
   
31.030   Establishment of non-elected city offices
   
31.031   City Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.032   Director of Disaster and Emergency Services
   
31.033   Main Street Manager
City Utility Commission
   
31.045   Established
Planning Commission
   
31.060   Objective and purpose
   
31.061   Members
   
31.062   Term of office
   
31.063   Vacancies
   
31.064   Oath of office
   
31.065   Officers
   
31.066   Meetings
   
31.067   Procedures for public hearings
   
31.068   Order of business
   
31.069   Quorum
Board of Adjustments
   
31.080   Members
   
31.081   Term of office
   
31.082   Vacancies
   
31.083   Oath of office
   
31.084   Officers
   
31.085   Meetings
   
31.086   Procedures for public hearings
Cross-reference:
   City Council, see
Chapter 32
   Mayor-Council Plan, see
Chapter 30
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 OATH.
   Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the discharge of duties
of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm,
as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of this Commonwealth,
and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful and true to the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen thereof, and that I
will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the office of           ,
according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the
adoption of the present Constitution, I, being a citizen of this United States,
have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this State, nor out of it,
nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons,
nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any
person thus offending, so help me God,” as established by § 228 of the Kentucky
Constitution.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.002 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed after his or
her election or during his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.070(1))
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Council members
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Governor’s Office for Local
Development computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the Kentucky Constitution,
which provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a
rate no greater than $12,000 per annum, and Mayors in cities other than the
first class and Council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200
per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Governor’s Office for Local Development.
(KRS 83A.075)
   (B)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees
and non-elected city officers in accordance with the personnel and pay
classification plan ordinance of the city.
(KRS 83A.070(2))
   (C)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(KRS 83A.070(3))
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
Case law reference:
   The limits on compensation contained in the Kentucky Constitution are not
absolute limits but rather increase or decrease in accordance with changes in
the consumer price index. See Matthews v Allen, 360 SW2d 248 (1948).
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.003 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
incapacity or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the Circuit Court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Non-elected officers. Non-elected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
Statutory references:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of non-elected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
§ 31.004 BOND.
   (A)   Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS 62.060.
   (B)   All officers, officials and employees of the city who handle public
funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to
the local governing body for the faithful and honest performance of his or her
duties and as security for all money coming into that person’s hands or under
that person’s control. The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum amount
of public funds the officer, official or employee handles at any given time
during a fiscal year cycle. The city shall pay the cost of the bond.
   (C)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with division (B) above.
(KRS 65.067) (Prior Code, § 31.04)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.015 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers is governed by general election laws as
provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless City Council otherwise
prescribes by ordinance that election of city officers shall be under
nonpartisan city election laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A. The ordinance
shall become effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by
the election law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with
the County Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which
any city office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any
ordinance prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city
election laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of
the county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above by ordinance, except that no change shall be
made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
(KRS 83A.050)
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing upon adoption of this
chapter shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of
Mayor and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
(KRS 83A.080(4))
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E) and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(KRS 83A.080(5))
(Prior Code, § 31.15)
§ 31.016 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor shall be elected by the voters of
the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a resident of
the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election. His or her
term of office begins on January 1 following his or her election and shall be
for four years and until his or her successor qualifies. If a person is
selected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and serves less than
four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be considered for
purposes of re-election to a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(a), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation shall be effective at the
next regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring after the date
specified in the written letter of resignation.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to 83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and require each department to make
reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to ensure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the
authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this section
within 30 days of the action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to
attend to his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of
Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the
provisions of division (C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
(Prior Code, § 31.16)
§ 31.017 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 31.17)
§ 31.018 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   (A)   KRS 83A.130(5) provides that the Council may, by ordinance, select one
of its number to preside at meetings of the Council in absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Council deems it in the best interest of the city to provide for a
Mayor Pro Tempore to preside at Council meetings in absence of the Mayor.
   (C)   It has long been tradition for the Council member receiving the
highest number of votes to serve as Mayor Pro Tempore.
   (D)   The Mayor Pro Tempore has full authority to preside over Council
meetings in the absence of the Mayor and to sign all ordinances passed during
those meetings.
(Prior Code, § 31.18) (Ord. 91-9, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 31.019 CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   When the absence or disability of the Mayor shall prevent his or her
serving in the office during a national, state or local emergency, the duties
and responsibilities of the Mayor shall be administered by the Mayor Pro
Tempore as set forth in KRS 83A.130.
   (B)   If neither the Mayor nor the Mayor Pro Tempore is able to serve in the
office of Mayor by reason of absence or disability, then the duties of the
office of Mayor shall be assumed temporarily by a member of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.19) (Ord. 03-10, passed 10-27-2003)
NON-ELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.030 ESTABLISHMENT OF NON-ELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All non-elected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
(KRS 83A.080)
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all non-elected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and these appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All non-elected officers may be removed by the Council at will unless
otherwise provided by state law or ordinance. Upon removal of a non-elected
officer at will, the Council shall give the officer a written statement setting
forth the reason or reasons for the removal. However, this requirement shall
not be construed as limiting in any way the at-will dismissal power of the
Council.
(KRS 83A.080(3)
   (D)   The following are non-elected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk/Treasurer; and
      (2)   Assistant City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 31.30)
Statutory reference:
   Non-elected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(2), (3)
§ 31.031 CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk/Treasurer shall include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the official custodian or
custodian in accordance with KRS 61.870 to 61.884;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city, if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, Council members, and the correct name, telephone number and
electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who are
serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January 1
of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person who may be reached during normal business
hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk/Treasurer by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.002.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk/Treasurer unless
the person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Kentucky Constitution
and has provided bond, if required, with corporate surety authorized to
transact business in the state and conditioned upon the performance of the
duties specified herein.
(Prior Code, § 31.31) (Ord. 24-03, passed 2-12-2024)
Cross-reference:
   City Clerk/Treasurer; position description, see §
36.121
   Public records, see
Chapter 34
Statutory reference:
   Open records requirements, see KRS 61.870 to 61.884
§ 31.032 DIRECTOR OF DISASTER AND EMERGENCY SERVICES.
   (A)   There is hereby designated a Director of Disaster and Emergency
Services for the city who shall routinely be available to respond to
emergencies, attend training and to attend meetings convened by the Disaster
and Emergency Services Area Coordinator.
   (B)   When acting in the capacity of Director of Disaster and Emergency
Services, that person shall relinquish authorities and responsibilities
associated with any other governmental employment with the city and shall
assume those authorities and responsibilities until a time as the Director
shall cease acting in the capacity of Director.
   (C)   In no case shall the city seek reimbursement for the Director’s salary
for any time spent in another capacity.
(Prior Code, § 31.32) (Ord. 93-3, passed 6-14-1993)
§ 31.033 MAIN STREET MANAGER.
   (A)   The Main Street Manager shall be a person with a minimum of a high
school diploma and at least two years experience in a related job. He or she
would preferably hold a Bachelor’s degree and/or have extensive experience in
marketing, public relations, industrial development or a related field.
Candidates for this job will demonstrate understanding of local culture and
history. He or she must be willing to train and to travel as needed. He or she
will demonstrate self-motivation and creativity and will present himself or
herself in a businesslike manner on the job. The job will entail 20 hours per
week during a six-month probationary period. If grant monies are available to
fund part of the position, the hours and salary could be renegotiated.
   (B)   The following duties will be included in this position:
      (1)   Active recruitment of businesses to Main Street and throughout the
city;
      (2)   Coordination of Main Street; activities associated with the
Mountain Mushroom Festival;
      (3)   Serve as a liaison between area residents and city and/or county
government;
      (4)   Writing and administration of grants which will enhance the
ambiance, business climate, recreational potential and historical character of
the Main Street area of city;
      (5)   Consultation with property owners to enhance their understanding of
the historical guidelines for building renovation;
      (6)   Maintenance of certification as a Main Street Manager through
participation in the Renaissance training program;
      (7)   Procurement of funding for projects through the Renaissance program
and/or other similar programs;
      (8)   Coordination of efforts with County Development Alliance and the
County Industrial Board;
      (9)   Regular reports to the Mayor and City Council about activities;
      (10)   Publicity of Main Street special events; and
      (11)   Recruitment and coordination of volunteers for Main Street
projects.
(Prior Code, § 31.33) (Ord. 04-10, passed 9-13-2004)
CITY UTILITY COMMISSION
§ 31.045 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The city has by ordinance previously acquired the waterworks and water
distribution system of K-T Electric and Water Company through the establishment
of Irvine Municipal Utilities.
   (B)   Utilities revenue bonds of the city are to be issued by the city in
connection with the acquisition, and it is contemplated that the project of
municipal utilities shall in the indeterminate future include the substantial
renovation, modification, extension and improvement of the sewer facilities of
the city.
   (C)   The city, pursuant to authority of a holding of the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky in the case of Keathley vs. Town of Martin, (1951), 246 SW(2) 152,
is empowered and authorized to appoint an independent commission for the
operation of the utility to be presently acquired, to the end that the
management, control and operation of the waterworks and water distribution
system should be vested in an independent city commission free from political
influence, so that the system may be operated in a businesslike manner for the
sole purpose of serving the public in the most economic manner.
   (D)   There is hereby created a commission to be styled “The City of Irvine
Utility Commission” (hereinafter sometimes referred to as “Commission”), to be
composed of three members who, together with their successors, shall be named
and appointed by the Mayor, subject to the ratification and approval of the
City Council.
      (1)   The members of the Commission shall be citizens, taxpayers and
legal voters of the city, and shall not at the time of their appointment be
indebted to the city, either directly or indirectly, nor shall any of them be
surety on the official bonds of any officers of the city.
      (2)   No person shall be eligible for membership on the Commission, and
no person shall be appointed a member thereof, who has, within the last two
years before his or her appointment, held any city, county, state or federal
office, or been a member of any committee of any political party, or who is
related within the third degree to the Mayor or any member of the City Council.
No officer or employee of the city, whether holding a paid or an unpaid office,
shall be eligible to be appointed as a member of the Commission or to be
employed by it in any capacity.
      (3)   If at any time during the term of office of any member of the
Commission such member shall become a candidate for, or be elected to, or
appointed to any public office, he or she shall automatically vacate his or her
membership on the Commission, and the Mayor, subject to the ratification of the
City Council, shall forthwith appoint another in his or her place.
      (4)   The first membership of the Commission shall consist of one person
appointed for a term of one year; one person appointed for a term of two years;
and one person appointed for a term of three years. The terms of office of the
first members of the Utility Commission shall be deemed to commence August 1,
1962, notwithstanding the fact that the city may not, on that date, have
obtained formal title to the waterworks and water distribution system initially
constituting the municipal utilities.
      (5)   Upon the expiration of the terms of the first members, successors
shall be appointed for terms of three years each. It shall be permissible for
any member to be re-appointed upon the expiration of any term, providing that
member is then and continues to be qualified for membership according to the
provisions of this section.
      (6)   Each member of the Commission shall furnish bond in the penal sum
of $5,000 in good corporate surety to do business in the state, such bond to be
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her official duties. The
bonds and sureties shall be approved by the City Council. The premium of the
surety company in each case shall be paid as a part of the cost of operating
the municipal utilities and charged to the Operation and Maintenance Fund
provided in the ordinance authorizing the issuance of the bonds. The salary or
compensation of each member of the Commission is hereby fixed in the sum of
$3,600 per annum, the same to be paid in each year in 12 installments monthly
at the end of each calendar month out of the above-mentioned Operation and
Maintenance Fund; provided, however, that in any month the normal operating and
maintenance charges shall first be paid and the compensation of the members of
the Commission shall then be paid only if cash funds are available in the
Operation and Maintenance Fund. If such funds are not available, the payment of
compensation shall be deferred and may be made out of the first available
moneys in the Operation and Maintenance Fund after payment in each month of the
normal operation and maintenance charges; and provided further that such
compensation shall be a charge only against the Operation and Maintenance Fund,
and shall not become at any time a direct liability of the city, constituting
an obligation against the General Fund of the city.
   (E)   At the next regular meeting of the City Council following the adoption
of this section, the Mayor shall tender to the City Council nominations for the
first membership in the Commission, designating those nominated or appointed
for each of the one-, two-, and three-year terms. If the nominations or
appointments are ratified and approved by the City Council, such appointees
shall promptly assume office by taking an oath similar to the oath prescribed
by § 228 of the Kentucky Constitution, and by giving bond with good surety as
herein required.
      (1)   From and after the acquisition of the waterworks and water
distribution system of the city, the Commission shall have absolute and
exclusive control of the operation and fiscal management of the water system,
and all other portions of the city’s municipal utilities, as, if and when
acquired. Rates and charges for service rendered by the municipal utilities
shall be fixed by ordinance of City Council, upon recommendations and studies
of the Utility Commission. The provisions, covenants and agreements set forth
in city ordinances adopted July 12, 1962, relating to the issuance of “City of
Irvine Utilities Revenue Bonds,” and the establishment of the initial rates to
be applicable thereto, are hereby recognized to constitute valid and binding
contracts of the city with the prospective holders of revenue bonds and the
coupons attached thereto. The city’s municipally owned sanitary sewer system
may (and shall, if same is, by appropriate proceedings of the city, joined to
and consolidated with the municipal utilities) be placed under the control of
the Commission.
      (2)   The Commission shall provide rules, regulations and bylaws for the
management of the municipal utilities, and for the conduct of its business
therein. It shall have the power and authority to do any and all acts necessary
and proper in connection with the management and operation of the system, to
purchase or contract to purchase all supplies, and to cause to be performed all
work necessary in connection therewith; provided there are proper funds legally
usable for that purpose under state statutes relating to municipally owned
utilities, and under the ordinance adopted July 12, 1962, in connection with
the issuance of the above-mentioned utilities revenue bonds. The Commission
shall select such employees as may be necessary for the conduct of this
business, subject to the qualifications and inhibitions set forth in division
(D) above, and shall fix the compensation to be paid to its employees, having
in mind, however, the funds available therefor. Obligations incurred by the
Commission shall be obligations against the revenues or prospective revenues of
the municipal utilities only, and against only such portions thereof as may be
available for the payment of such obligations under the provisions of law and
of the above-mentioned ordinances. If any employee shall be entrusted with the
handling of money, that employee shall be required by the Commission to give
bond with good surety in a penal sum not less than the maximum estimated amount
it is anticipated that employee may have in his or her custody at any one time,
and the premiums for any corporate surety in connection therewith shall
constitute a proper operating cost, and may be paid from funds available for
such cost. The Commission may arrange for a blanket bond covering all employees
if such procedure appears to be advantageous and more economical. Before the
expiration of the bonds of the members of the Commission, or of any employee or
employees, the person covered by such bond shall close his or her accounts and
make a full accounting to the Commission of all funds he or she has handled.
   (F)   The Commission shall make or cause to be made and delivered to the
City Clerk, as soon as possible after the close of each calendar month,
detailed reports showing the collections and expenditures and the amounts
apportioned during the preceding month to each fund created by the above-
mentioned ordinance authorizing the issuance of utilities revenue bonds. The
moneys deposited to each of the funds shall be segregated and secured as
provided in the ordinance.
   (G)   Two members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business at any regular meeting or at any other meeting of which
all members have received proper and adequate notice. In connection with the
adoption of any motion, resolution or order, or the approval of any matter
under consideration by the Commission, the affirmative approving vote of at
least two members shall be required.
   (H)   The members of the Commission shall be removable from office by a
majority vote of the City Council at a regular meeting, but only for misconduct
and upon written charges tendered to the member in question at least ten days
before such meeting. The member in question shall have the right to appear and
be heard in his or her own defense or by legal counsel, and to confront
witnesses. After service of written charges, the member may be suspended until
his or her case has been decided by the City Council, but that member shall be
heard in his or her own defense not later than the second regular meeting after
charges, are tendered, or the member shall be deemed exonerated.
   (I)   Any person, firm or corporation (including the city) injured by any
misconduct, mismanagement or misappropriation of funds by the Commission, or by
any member or any employee thereof, shall be entitled to maintain an action on
the bond of the person or persons responsible for that injury.
(Prior Code, § 31.45) (Ord. passed 7-12-1962; Ord. passed 4-13-1964; Ord.
passed 12-11-1967; Ord. 24-04, passed 2-12-2024)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.060 OBJECTIVE AND PURPOSE.
   The objectives and purposes of the Planning Commission are those set forth
in KRS Chapter 100 and amendments and supplements thereto and those powers and
duties delegated to the Planning Commission by virtue of the city.
(Ord. 24-02, passed - -2023)
§ 31.061 MEMBERS.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of a total of three members with at
least three of the members being citizen members. One member may be members of
city government. One member may be appointed which live outside of the city
limits. All members shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City
Council.
(Ord. 24-02, passed - -2023)
Statutory reference:
   Planning Commission members, see KRS 100.133
§ 31.062 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The term of office of all elected public officials shall be the same
as their official tenure in office.
   (B)   The term of office of citizen members shall be four years ending on
December 31 of the designated year. The terms of those first appointed shall be
staggered so that a proportionate number serve one, two and three years
respectively, with later appointments or reappointments continuing the
staggered pattern for a term of four years in the event all members resign
simultaneously. The present members of the Planning Commission shall remain in
their original terms.
(Ord. 24-02, passed - -2023)
§ 31.063 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies due to resignation, removal or termination of membership
shall be filled within 60 days by the appropriate appointing authority. If the
authority fails to fill the vacancy within 60 days and after receiving written
notice of the vacancy, the Commission shall fill the vacancy using the same
procedure to elect its officers. When a vacancy occurs other than through
expiration of the term of membership, it shall be filled for the remainder of
that term.
   (B)   Any member of the Commission other than governmental members who miss
three consecutive meetings without cause, shall be considered to have tendered
his or her resignation to the Commission and the Commission shall forthwith
notify the appropriate appointing legislative body of this member’s resignation
and shall request that said body make an immediate appointment to fill this
vacancy within 30 days. The chairperson shall determine just cause.
(Ord. 24-02, passed - -2023)
§ 31.064 OATH OF OFFICE.
   All members of a Planning Commission shall, before entering upon their
duties, qualify by taking the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution before any judge, notary public, clerk of a court or
justice of the peace within the district or county in which he or she resides.
(Ord. 24-02, passed - -2023)
§ 31.065 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The officers of the Planning Commission shall consist of a
chairperson, vice-chairperson and secretary.
   (B)   Only citizen members shall be nominated for officers of the
Commission.
   (C)   Election of officers shall take place immediately following
nominations. Voting shall take place in one of the following ways: voice, show
of hands, rising, balloting or roll call.
   (D)   The first regular meeting held in January shall be the date of the
annual election and those officers elected at this time shall immediately take
office and serve for one year.
   (E)   The chairperson shall be the presiding officer at all meetings and
hearings of the Planning Commission. He or she shall conduct business only for
the benefit of the Commission involved and shall reflect no personal prejudice
in any matter. The chairperson shall conduct all meetings according to Robert’s
Rules of Order and his or her duties are as follows:
      (1)   To open and call the meeting to order;
      (2)   To announce the order of business to be conducted;
      (3)   To recognize members entitled to the floor;
      (4)   To state and put to vote all questions which are regularly moved or
necessarily rise in the course of proceedings and to announce the result of the
vote;
      (5)   To vote on all matters before the Commission, if he or she so
chooses;
      (6)   To keep the Commission from unnecessary or frivolous motions by not
recognizing them;
      (7)   To speed up proceedings as much as possible;
      (8)   To inform the group present to a point of order or a practice
pertinent to pending business; and
      (9)   After Commission’s approval, the chairperson is to authenticate all
actions, orders and proceedings of the Commission by his or her signature.
   (F)   (1)   The vice-chairperson shall assist the chairperson in any way
possible upon the chairperson’s request.
      (2)   Upon the absence of the chairperson, the vice-chairperson shall
automatically become the residing officer of the Commission and shall have all
powers, duties and responsibilities of the chairperson as set out in these
bylaws.
   (G)   The duties of the secretary/treasurer are as follows:
      (1)   To keep records and minutes of each meeting or hearing of the
Commission;
      (2)   To keep a roll of members and to call the roll when required;
      (3)   To notify officers and Commission members of their appointment and
to furnish the Commission members with minutes of the previous Commission
meeting and all applications for zone change and a list of items to be brought
before the Commission at its next regular or special meeting;
      (4)   To record the number of votes for and against each question put to
vote;
      (5)   To indicate any absences or disqualifications from voting when a
question is put to vote, and other duties which may be assigned to him or her;
and
      (6)   To issue any checks regarding Planning Commission business as co-
signed by the chairperson.
   (H)   In the event that the chairperson and vice-chairperson are absent, the
members present shall elect a temporary vice-chairperson with said temporary
vice-chairperson having all powers and duties of the regular and duly elected
chairperson and vice-chairperson.
(Ord. 24-02, passed - -2023)
§ 31.066 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings and public hearings shall be held on the second
Monday of every February, April, June, August and December of each year at 6:30
p.m. at the City Hall or other place designated by the chairperson.
   (B)   In addition to those required by law, the Commission may hold public
hearings at its discretion when it is apparent that such hearings will be in
the public interest.
   (C)   Special meetings shall be held at the call of the chairperson who
shall give written or oral notice to all members at least seven days prior to
the meetings. The notice shall contain the date, time, place and the subject or
subjects which shall be discussed.
(Ord. 24-02, passed - -2023)
Statutory reference:
   Planning Commission meetings, see KRS 100.163
§ 31.067 PROCEDURES FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Notice of such hearings shall be distributed to the “publication area”
as defined in KRS 424.110. Notice shall be published at least once but may be
published two or more times; provided that one publication occurs not less than
seven days nor more than 21 days before the occurrence of the hearing.
   (B)   The Commission shall hold a trial-type hearing.
   (C)   (1)   The matter before the Commission shall be presented in summary
by the secretary or a designated member of the Commission and parties in
interest shall have privilege on the floor.
      (2)   No record of statement shall be recorded or sworn to as evidence
for any court of law without notice to the parties.
   (D)   A record shall be kept of those speaking before the Commission by the
secretary.
   (E)   The Commission may appoint the Commission’s legal counsel to serve as
hearing officer in order to conduct any public hearing.
(Ord. 24-02, passed - -2023)
§ 31.068 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The recommended order of business at regular and special meetings shall be
as follows, but shall always remain subject to the wishes of the chairperson:
   (A)   Roll call;
   (B)   Reading of minutes of previous meeting;
   (C)   New business;
   (D)   Old and unfinished business;
   (E)   Communication and bills;
   (F)   Reports of officers and standing committees;
   (G)   Reports of special committees;
   (H)   Special orders; and
   (I)   Adjournment.
(Ord. 24-02, passed - -2023)
§ 31.069 QUORUM.
   (A)   (1)   A simple majority of the total membership of a Planning
Commission as established by regulation or agreement shall constitute a quorum.
      (2)   A simple majority vote of all members present where there is a
properly constituted quorum shall be necessary to transact any official
business, except that a vote of a simple majority of the total membership shall
be necessary for the adoption or amendment of the Commission’s bylaws for
elements of the comprehensive plan or regulations.
   (B)   A member having a financial interest in the outcome of any question
before the body shall disclose the nature of the interest and shall disqualify
himself or herself from voting on the question, and he or she shall not be
counted for the purpose of a quorum.
   (C)   Any member of a Planning Commission who fails to notify the Commission
of his or her financial interest in a question called to vote, shall have his
or her voting qualifications judged by the Commission as to his or her amount
of interest in the questions and his or her right to vote on it.
(Ord. 24-02, passed - -2023)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS
§ 31.080 MEMBERS.
   The Board of Adjustments (Board) shall consist of a total of five members
with all of the members being citizen members. All members shall be appointed
by the Mayor and shall be approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 24-02, passed - -2023)
§ 31.081 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of members shall be four years ending on December 31 of
the designated year. The terms of those first appointed shall be staggered so
that a proportionate number serve one, two and three years, with later
appointments or reappointments continuing the staggered pattern for a term of
four years in the event all members resign simultaneously. Five of the present
members of the Board of Adjustments shall remain in their original terms.
(Ord. 24-02, passed - -2023)
§ 31.082 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies due to resignation, removal or termination of membership
shall be filled within 60 days by the appropriate appointing authority. If the
authority fails to fill the vacancy within 60 days and after receiving written
notice of the vacancy, the Planning Commission shall fill the vacancy using the
same procedure to elect its officers. When a vacancy occurs other than through
expiration of the term of membership, it shall be filled for the remainder of
that term.
   (B)   Any member of the Board who misses three consecutive meetings without
cause shall be considered to have tendered his or her resignation to the Board
and the Board shall forthwith notify the appropriate appointing legislative
body of this member’s resignation and shall request that said body make an
immediate appointment to fill this vacancy within 30 days. The chairperson
shall determine just cause.
(Ord. 24-02, passed - -2023)
§ 31.083 OATH OF OFFICE.
   All members of the Board shall, before entering upon their duties, qualify
by taking the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the Kentucky Constitution
before any judge, notary public, clerk of a court or justice of the peace
within the district or county in which he or she resides.
(Ord. 24-02, passed - -2023)
§ 31.084 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The officers of the Board shall consist of chairperson, vice-
chairperson and a secretary.
   (B)   Election of officers shall take place immediately following
nominations. Voting shall take place in one of the following ways: voice, show
of hands, rising, balloting or roll call.
   (C)   The first regular meeting held in January shall be the date of the
annual election and those officers elected at this time shall immediately take
office and serve for one year.
   (D)   The chairperson shall be the presiding officer at all meetings and
hearings of the Board. He or she shall conduct business only for the benefit of
the Board involved and shall reflect no personal prejudice in any matter. The
chairperson shall conduct all meetings according to Robert’s Rules of Order and
his or her duties are as follows:
      (1)   To open and call the meeting to order;
      (2)   To announce the order of business to be conducted;
      (3)   To recognize members entitled to the floor;
      (4)   To state and put to vote all questions which are regularly moved or
necessarily rise in the course of proceedings and to announce the result of the
vote;
      (5)   To vote on all matters before the Board, if he or she so chooses;
      (6)   To keep the Board from unnecessary or frivolous motions by not
recognizing them;
      (7)   To speed up proceedings as much as possible;
      (8)   To inform the group present to a point of order or a practice
pertinent to pending business; and
      (9)   After the Board’s approval, the chairperson is to authenticate all
actions, orders and proceedings of the Board by his or her signature.
   (E)   The vice-chairperson shall assist the chairperson in any way possible
upon the chairperson’s request. Upon the absence of the chairperson, the vice-
chairperson shall automatically become the presiding officer of the Board and
shall have all powers, duties and responsibilities of the chairperson as set
out in these bylaws.
   (F)   The duties of the secretary/treasurer are as follows:
      (1)   To keep records and minutes of each meeting or hearing of the
Board;
      (2)   To keep a roll of members and to call the roll when required;
      (3)   To notify officers and Board members of their appointment and to
furnish the Board members with minutes of the previous Board meeting and of all
applications;
      (4)   To record the number of votes for and against each question put to
vote;
      (5)   To indicate any absences or disqualifications from voting when a
question is put to vote, and other duties which may be assigned to him or her;
and
      (6)   To issue any checks regarding Board business as co-signed by the
chairperson.
   (G)   In the event that the chairperson and vice-chairperson are absent, the
members present shall elect a temporary vice-chairperson with said temporary
vice-chairperson having all powers and duties of the regular and duly elected
chairperson and vice-chairperson.
(Ord. 24-02, passed - -2023)
§ 31.085 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings and public hearings shall be held on an as-needed
basis.
   (B)   Special meetings shall be held at the call of the chairperson, who
shall give written or oral notice to all members at least seven days prior to
the meetings. The notice shall contain the date, time, place and the subject or
subjects which shall be discussed.
(Ord. 24-02, passed - -2023)
§ 31.086 PROCEDURES FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Notice of such hearings shall be distributed to the “publication area”
as defined in the KRS 424.110. Notice shall be published at least once but may
be published two or more times; provided that one publication occurs not less
than seven days nor more than 21 days before the occurrence of the hearing.
   (B)   The Board shall hold a trial-type hearing.
   (C)   The matter before the Board shall be presented in summary by the
secretary or a designated member of the Board and parties in interest shall
have privilege on the floor. No record of statement shall be recorded or sworn
to as evidence for any court of law without notice to the parties.
   (D)   A record shall be kept of those speaking before the Board by the
secretary.
   (E)   The Board may appoint the Board’s legal counsel to serve as hearing
officer in order to conduct any public hearing.
(Ord. 24-02, passed - -2023)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.15   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.16   Meetings
   
32.17   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.30   One subject; title
   
32.31   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.32   Form of amendment
   
32.33   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.34   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.35   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.36   Official city records
   
32.37   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.38   Publication requirements
   
32.39   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.40   Periodic review required
   
32.41   Municipal orders
   
32.42   Proved by Clerk/Treasurer; received in evidence
   
32.43   Legislative immunity
Cross-reference:
   City officials and organizations, see
Chapter 31
   Mayor-Council Plan, see
Chapter 30
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Council member shall be elected at
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Council
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on January 1 following the election and shall
be for two years, except as provided by KRS 83A.050.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.002.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring
after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs on the City Council
which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City
Council shall immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk and the
Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
(Prior Code, § 32.02)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS Chapter 83A
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules and regulations for the
public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   (1)   The Council shall have the right to investigate all activities
of city government. The Council may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or
her official duties.
      (2)   Any statement required by the Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department or agency
under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or
undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to
the Mayor.
      (3)   The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council
and to appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of any
department, office or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
(Prior Code, § 32.03)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.15 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council may
set, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number may be selected to
preside at meetings of the Council in place of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5))
(Prior Code, § 32.15)
Cross-reference:
   Council’s responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is vacancy in the
    office of Mayor, see §
31.016
§ 32.16 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held at least once each month
at those times and places established by ordinance.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting, no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.031 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (Prior Code, § 32.16)
Statutory reference:
   Open meeting requirements, see KRS Chapter 61
§ 32.17 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.17)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.30 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1)) (Prior Code, § 32.30)
§ 32.31 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause, styled: “Be it ordained by the City of Irvine.”
(KRS 83A.060(2)) (Prior Code, § 32.31)
§ 32.32 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3)) (Prior Code, § 32.32)
§ 32.33 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
(KRS 83A.060(4))
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.38 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(7))
(Prior Code, § 32.33)
§ 32.34 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the Council within ten days after receiving it or
unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon reconsideration of
the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its return,
by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.34)
§ 32.35 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title, source
and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without setting
them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is made a
part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5)) (Prior Code, § 32.35)
§ 32.36 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city, and on passage of an ordinance, the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.031(B) and
32.37, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk/Treasurer and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.36)
§ 32.37 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk/Treasurer in the following manner.
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and indexed in a composite index and
maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.37)
§ 32.38 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.33(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
Council. If the Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the summary
shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law in the
state and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing or map, including common landmarks such as streets or roads in
lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9)) (Prior Code, § 32.38)
§ 32.39 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10)) (Prior Code, § 32.39)
§ 32.40 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years, all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11)) (Prior Code, § 32.40)
§ 32.41 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
(KRS 83A.060(12))
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(13))
(Prior Code, § 32.41)
§ 32.42 PROVED BY CLERK/TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk/Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14)) (Prior Code, § 32.42)
§ 32.43 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Council members shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15)) (Prior Code, § 32.43)
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Kentucky
Constitution § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Short-term borrowing
Improvements
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Financing of improvements
   
33.22   Apportionment of cost
   
33.23   Comprehensive report required
   
33.24   Public hearing required
   
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.26   Affected owner may contest
   
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
 
   
33.99   Penalty
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010) (Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020) (Prior Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No monies shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in the form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater or
less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance may
take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements and obligations, express or implied, beyond the existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate
or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any extent,
beyond the unexpended balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030) (Prior Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic
copy of the audit report to the State Department of Local Government for
information purposes by no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal
year being audited.
   (B)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor. The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement
which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The Auditor be employed to examine the general purpose financial
statements of all governmental, proprietary and fiduciary funds of the city;
      (2)   The Auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The Auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures as considered necessary under the
circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds,
appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The Auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying
the general purpose financial statements and his or her opinion and statements
relating thereto;
      (5)   The Auditor express an overall opinion as to whether the general
purpose financial statements present fairly the financial condition of the city
or state the reasons why an overall opinion cannot be expressed;
      (6)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (7)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon request.
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (D)   Upon completion of an audit, the city may elect to publish the
Auditor’s report in accordance with division (E) below, or may publish a
financial statement in accordance with division (F) below. Notwithstanding the
election of divisions (E) or (F) below, the city shall within 90 days after the
close of the fiscal year, cause to be published in a newspaper qualified under
KRS 424.120 a legal display advertisement of not less than eight column inches
that the statement required by KRS 424.220 has been prepared and that copies
have been provided to each local newspaper of general circulation, each news
service, and each local radio or television station which has on file with the
city a written request to be provided the statement.
   (E)   If the city elects to publish the Auditor’s report prepared in
accordance with this section in lieu of the financial statement required by KRS
424.220,it shall publish the Auditor’s cover letter to the City Council, the
combined balance sheet showing all fund types and account groups, the combined
statement of revenues, expenditures and changes in fund balance for all
governmental fund types, the combined statement of revenues, expenses and
changes in retained earnings/fund balances for all proprietary fund types and
similar trust funds, and the combined statement of changes in financial
position for all proprietary fund types and similar trust funds in accordance
with KRS Chapter 424. The advertisement shall contain a statement that a copy
of the complete Auditor’s report, including financial statements and
supplemental information, are on file at City Hall and are available for public
inspection during normal business hours. The advertisement shall also contain a
statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of the complete
Auditor’s report, including financial statements and supplemental information,
for his or her personal use. The statement shall notify citizens requesting a
personal copy of the city audit report that they will be charged for
duplication costs at a rate that shall not exceed $0.25 per page. In addition,
the advertisement shall contain a statement that copies of the financial
statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public
at no cost at the business address of the officer responsible for preparation
of the statement.
   (F)   If the city elects to publish the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 in lieu of publishing the Auditor’s report, it
shall, within 60 days after the completion of the audit, publish the statement
in accordance with KRS Chapter 424.
(KRS 91A.040) (Prior Code, § 33.04)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS Chapter 91A
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060) (Prior Code, § 33.05)
§ 33.06 SHORT-TERM BORROWING.
   (A)   The city by and through the Mayor, with approval of the Council, shall
have the authority to borrow a sum, or sums, of money in anticipation of future
tax revenues as is necessary for the operation of the city.
   (B)   The borrowing authority shall be construed to comply with the
provisions of KRS 65.7701 to 65.7721.
   (C)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the state local debt officer in
writing prior to any amounts being borrowed. The notification shall contain the
terms of the notes, including the interest rates or method of determining
rates, the approximate date of issue, the maturity dates, the trustee or paying
agent, if any, and shall include a copy of the certificate of the governmental
agency as to taxes or revenues to be collected during the term of the notes.
(Prior Code, § 33.06) (Ord. passed 6-12-2006)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all the properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all the properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all the property.
(KRS 91A.210) (Prior Code, § 33.20)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
(Prior Code, § 33.21)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Chapter 107
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government or any educational, religious or charitable organization. Council
may assess the property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230) (Prior Code, § 33.22)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments or financing.
(KRS 91A.240) (Prior Code, § 33.23)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250) (Prior Code, § 33.24)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed, shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage, the city
shall publish the ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by
certified mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to
proceed with the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the
estimated cost to the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property
owner bears to the total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260) (Prior Code, § 33.25)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.25, any affected property owner may file an action in the Circuit Court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution shall be final and binding with respect to the
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270) (Prior Code, § 33.26)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26, or after favorable final judgment in the action, whichever comes later,
the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the action,
including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment thereon
and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The first
installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment,
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280) (Prior Code, § 33.27)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.23 through
33.26 apply if additional property is included in the improvement or if change
is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property may be
included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof without
compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost apportioned to
any other property, or any other change may be made without this compliance, if
all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290) (Prior Code, § 33.28)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
33.04 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any
officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of §
33.04 shall, for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50
nor more than $500, in the discretion of the court, which may be recovered only
once, in a civil action brought by any resident of the city. The costs of all
proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident
bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(KRS 91A.040) (Prior Code, § 33.04)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS Chapter 91A
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.22   Format of copies
   
34.23   Fees for copies
   
34.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city government of the City of Irvine.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
(KRS 61.870(6))
      (2)   The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of most of the public records
is the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to, a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The chief administrative officer or any other officer or employee
of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care and keeping of
public records, regardless of whether the records are in his or her actual
personal custody and control.
(KRS 61.870(5))
      (2)   The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN shall be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which derives at least 25% of its funds expended by it in
the state from state or local authority funds;
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in this division; by a member or employee of the
public agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created and controlled by a public agency as
defined in this division; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in this division.
(KRS 61.870(1))
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency discussed in division (8) of
the definition of PUBLIC AGENCY above that are not related to functions,
activities, programs or operations funded by state or local authority.
(KRS 61.870(2))
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
      (1)   An individual residing in the commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) through
(5) above; and
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(8)(b)1.a.
to (8)(b)1.e.
(KRS 61.870(10))
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications or any other mechanism for
controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the public
agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3)) (Prior Code, § 34.01)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer
during regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official
custodian, or the custodian acting under the authority of the official
custodian, may require a request to inspect public records to be in writing,
signed by the applicant and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the
application. A written request to inspect public records may be presented by
hand delivery, mail or via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the Open Records Law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer or in another office of the city as determined by the official
custodian or custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original
copies of public records from the offices of the city without the written
permission of the official custodian of the record. When public records are
inspected at the city offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the
right to make abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain
copies of all written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian
may require advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
(Prior Code, § 34.15)
Statutory reference:
   Right to inspection, limitations, see KRS 61.872(1) - (3)
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk/Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the official custodian of
the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4)) (Prior Code, § 34.16)
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time and earliest date on which
the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5)) (Prior Code, § 34.17)
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6)) (Prior Code, § 34.18)
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute
final agency action.
(KRS 61.880) (Prior Code, § 34.19)
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 34.20)
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.26 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884) (Prior Code, § 34.21)
§ 34.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.26. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on white
paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard
Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2))
(Prior Code, § 34.22)
§ 34.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   Noncommercial purposes. The public agency may prescribe a reasonable
fee for making copies of nonexempt public records requested for use for
noncommercial purposes which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction,
including the costs of the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by
the public agency, but not including the cost of staff required. If a public
agency is asked to produce a record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor
the format to meet the request of an individual or a group, the public agency
may at its discretion provide the requested format and recover staff costs as
well as any actual costs incurred.
(KRS 61.874(3))
   (B)   Commercial purposes.
      (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) above may be based on one
or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and/or
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(4))
(Prior Code, § 34.23)
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.25
§ 34.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.23(B)(2);
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) (Prior Code, § 34.24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license or other agreement with the agency and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.23(B).
(KRS 61.874(6)) (Prior Code, § 34.25)
§ 34.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b)
above shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until a time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this division
(A)(8) shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation;
      (12)   Public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190;
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division (A) through the disclosure of the location, configuration or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include, but not be limited to, information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems;
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A): detailed drawings, schematics,
maps or specifications of structural elements, floor plans and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division (A) and that describe the exact physical location
of hazardous chemical, radiological or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division (A), TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(13)(a)5. above; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division (A), that public
agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to
in KRS 61.880(1), to the Executive Director of the office for Security
Coordination and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A) shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health and safety programs; and
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A) shall not apply
when a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a public
university, museum or government depository from a donor or depositor other
than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of the records,
but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not
apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
(KRS 61.878(1))
   (B)   (1)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
(KRS 61.878(2))
      (2)   In addition, if any public record contains material which is not
excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and make the
nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the possible
applicability of §
34.18.
(KRS 61.878(4))
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878(5))
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge or
impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. These records
shall include, but not be limited to, work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant or eligible shall not have
the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878(3))
(Prior Code, § 34.26)
§ 34.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in Circuit Court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
(Prior Code, § 34.27)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
Ad Valorem Tax
   
35.01   Property to be assessed and tax levied annually
   
35.02   Effect on existing ordinances
   
35.03   Adopting county assessment
   
35.04   Assessment date
   35.05   Due and delinquency dates
   
35.06   Tax statement
   
35.07   City Clerk/Treasurer to collect taxes
   
35.08   Ad valorem tax rates
   
35.09   Use of revenue
Joint Tourism Commission and Transient Room Tax
   
35.20   Tourism Commission
   
35.21   Commission membership
   
35.22   Special purpose governmental entities (SPGE)
   
35.23   Annual budget
 
   
35.99   Penalty
AD VALOREM TAX
§ 35.01 PROPERTY TO BE ASSESSED AND TAX LEVIED ANNUALLY.
   All real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city
subject to tax for the city purposes shall be assessed each year as provided by
law and ad valorem taxes shall be levied thereon for city purposes.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-22-2011)
§ 35.02 EFFECT ON EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to affect the validity of any annual
tax levy ordinance or any other ordinance levying a specific tax, and all such
ordinances shall remain in full force and effect under their respective terms
and conditions.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-22-2011)
§ 35.03 ADOPTING COUNTY ASSESSMENT.
   The city does hereby adopt, approve and elect to use the annual assessment
of property prepared for the county for property situated within the corporate
limits of the city as the basis of the ad valorem tax levied herein. The City
Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Department of
Revenue and Property Valuation Administrator of the county immediately upon
election of the city to adopt said assessment. Each year the city shall
appropriate and pay to the office of the County Property Valuation
Administrator a sum for the use of said assessment as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-22-2011)
§ 35.04 ASSESSMENT DATE.
   Pursuant to KRS 132.285, the assessment date for the city shall conform to
the assessment date of the county, the time for levying the city tax rate,
fiscal year and any other dates that will enable the effective adoption of the
county assessment, notwithstanding any statutory provisions to the contrary,
are hereby designated to conform with the appropriate dates prescribed for the
county by statute.
(Prior Code, § 35.04) (Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-22-2011)
§ 35.05 DUE AND DELINQUENCY DATES.
   (A)   All taxes shall be due and payable to the city on or before December
31. Tax bills paid by October 31 shall receive a discount of 2%. Tax bills not
paid on or by January 31 shall be assessed a penalty of 5%, and tax bills paid
after January 31 shall be assessed penalty of 15% in addition to interest at
the rate of 12% per annum on the total unpaid balance until paid.
   (B)   Revenue derived from penalty and interest payments for delinquent tax
bills shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.05) (Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-22-2011; Ord. 18-03, passed 8-27-
2018; Ord. 21-8, passed 8-16-2021; Ord. 23-03, passed 8-22-2022)
§ 35.06 TAX STATEMENT.
   Each year, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall prepare and mail a tax statement
to each taxpayer at his or her last known address.
(Prior Code, § 35.06) (Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-22-2011)
§ 35.07 CITY CLERK TO COLLECT TAXES.
   (A)   Except as provided herein, all ad valorem taxes levied by the city
shall be collected by the City Clerk/Treasurer in the manner and upon the terms
prescribed by law.
   (B)   When the bill has been declared delinquent, the City Clerk/Treasurer
shall then proceed with the collection of the delinquent tax bills, penalty and
interest as provided herein, and to enforce the payment of same by distraint or
levy and sale of property as provided by law. The City Clerk/Treasurer will
also report to the Council monthly the progress made in collecting delinquent
taxes during the previous month. All enforcement and collection efforts shall
comply with the requirements of KRS 92.810.
   (C)   Pursuant to KRS 91.487(6), if the city commences suit against any
tract of land for the collection of taxes, then it shall be entitled to recover
original taxes, interest, penalties and costs including attorney fees.
   (D)   All ad valorem taxes levied against motor vehicles and/or watercraft
may be collected by the Clerk of the County Court. If such taxes are so
collected, the city shall pay to the County Clerk such sum as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 35.07) (Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-22-2011)
§ 35.08 AD VALOREM TAX RATES.
   (A)   Ad valorem tax levied upon property. There is hereby levied upon all
property, real and personal, situated within the corporate limits of the city
and having a taxable status in the city, which is taxable by the city for city
purposes, an ad valorem tax at a rate as set by the city from time to time.
   (B)   Ad valorem tax levied upon motor vehicles. There is hereby levied upon
all motor vehicles an ad valorem tax at a rate as set by the city from time to
time.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes, fines, penalties and abatement charges owed to the
city.
      (1)   Any person or entity who has failed to make payment to the city in
full of any delinquent obligation owed to the city shall not be eligible:
         (a)   To receive from the city any permit or license issued by the
Codes Officer;
         (b)   To receive from the city a city business license;
         (c)   To have reviewed for approval any site development plan, major
or minor plat, consolidation plat, preliminary plat or final plat by the
Planning and Zoning Department or the Planning and Zoning Commission;
         (d)   To have reviewed by the Board of Adjustments any request or
application for a conditional use permit, a variance or a waiver;
         (e)   To have performed by Codes Enforcement Department personnel,
Planning and Zoning personnel or the city’s Electrical Inspector any
inspection; or
         (f)   To do any business with the city whether as a vendor, supplier
or contractor.
      (2)   The term DELINQUENT OBLIGATION, as used herein, shall be defined to
mean:
         (a)   The non-payment of city ad valorem property taxes, whether on
realty or personalty, which are delinquent in accordance with applicable city
ordinance or state statute;
         (b)   The non-payment of city payroll taxes or net profit taxes which
are delinquent in accordance with applicable city ordinance or state statute if
such ordinance or statute is effective;
         (c)   The non-payment of fines or penalties assessed by the city, or
any city department, within 30 days of their having become final in accordance
with applicable city ordinance or state statute; and
         (d)   The non-payment of any costs associated with the city’s having
abated any nuisance existing on a tract of land in the city, including, without
limitation, the costs of the demolition and removal of a dilapidated structure.
(Prior Code, § 35.08) (Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-22-2011; Ord. 18-03, passed 8-27-
2018; Ord. 21-8, passed 8-16-2021; Ord. 23-03, passed 8-22-2022; Ord. 24-05,
passed 2-12-2024)
§ 35.09 USE OF REVENUE.
   All monies derived under §
35.08(A) shall be deposited in the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-22-2011; Ord. 18-03, passed 8-27-2018; Ord. 21-8,
passed 8-16-2021; Ord. 23-03, passed 8-22-2022)
JOINT TOURISM COMMISSION AND TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
§ 35.20 TOURISM COMMISSION.
   There is hereby established a joint tourism commission between the Fiscal
Court of Estill County, Kentucky, and the City Council of the City of Irvine,
Kentucky to be known as the Irvine-Estill County Tourism Commission. The
Commission shall serve and operate under such terms and conditions as may be
established by the laws of the commonwealth and all applicable ordinances
enacted by the establishing bodies.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 35.21 COMMISSION MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Members. The Commission shall be composed of seven members and shall,
unless otherwise specified, be appointed by the joint action and agreement of
the City Mayor and the County Judge Executive, as set forth herein.
   (B)   Appointment of members. In the absence of both a local hotel-motel
association and a local restaurant association at the time of the establishment
of the Commission, the initial Commission members shall be appointed as
follows.
      (1)   Initial appointments. The following initial members of the
Commission shall, unless otherwise specified, be appointed by the joint
decision of the City Mayor and the County Judge Executive, to wit:
         (a)   Three Commissioners from a list of five or more names submitted
by the Hotel and Hospitality Association;
         (b)   One Commissioner from a list of three names submitted by the
Restaurant Association;
         (c)   One Commissioner shall be appointed by the County Chamber of
Commerce;
         (d)   One Commissioner shall be appointed by the sole discretion of
the Mayor of the City;
         (e)   One Commissioner shall be appointed in the sole discretion of
the County Judge Executive; and
         (f)   The Commission may appoint such ex-officio members as it deems
necessary.
      (2)   Subsequent appointments/vacancies. All appointments or re-
appointments made after the date of the initial appointments described in
division (B)(1) above shall made as follows.
         (a)   In the event that no local hotel association exists and/or no
local restaurant association exists at the time it shall become necessary to
fill an expired term or other vacancy, all such subsequent appointments or
vacancies shall be filled in the same manner that the original appointment was
made.
         (b)   Commissioners shall be appointed for terms of three years;
provided that in making the initial appointments, the appropriate chief
executive officer or officers shall appoint two Commissioners for a term of
three years, two Commissioners for a term of two years and one Commissioner for
a term of one year. There shall be no limitation on the number of terms to
which a Commissioner is reappointed. Upon the expiration of the term of any
member, such member may continue to serve without restriction until replaced.
   (C)   Removal of Commissioner. A Commissioner may be removed from office, by
joint or separate action, of the appropriate chief executive officer or
officers of the local governing body or bodies that established the Commission
as provided by KRS 65.007.
   (D)   Officers and employees. The Commission shall elect from its membership
a chairperson and a treasurer, and may employ personnel and make contracts
necessary to carry out the purpose of KRS 91A.350 to 91A.390. The contracts may
include, but shall not be limited to, the procurement of promotional services,
advertising services and other services and materials relating to the promotion
of tourist and convention business. Contracts of the type enumerated shall be
made only with persons, organizations and firms with experience and
qualifications for providing promotional services and materials, such as
advertising firms, chambers of commerce, publishers and printers.
   (E)   Books and audits. All books of the Commission and its account(s), as
established pursuant to KRS 91A.390(2), shall be audited as provided in the
applicable sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes, as amended. An
independent certified public accountant or Auditor of Public Accounts shall
make a report to the Commission, to the associations submitting lists of names
from which Commission members are selected, to the appropriate chief executive
officer or officers, to the State Auditor of Public Accounts and to the local
governing body or bodies that established the Commission that was audited. A
copy of the audit report shall be made available by the Commission to members
of the public upon request and at no charge.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 35.22 SPECIAL PURPOSE GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES (SPGE).
   (A)   The Commission shall comply with all applicable the provisions of KRS
65A.010 to 65A.090 governing SPGEs.
   (B)   The Commission shall operate on the same fiscal year as the city,
beginning July 1 of each year and ending on June 30 of the next following year.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 35.23 ANNUAL BUDGET.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission shall annually submit a budget and request for
funds for the operation of the Commission to the city and to the County Fiscal
Court.
      (a)   The annual budget shall be submitted no later than the first day of
May of each year.
      (b)   The first line-item of each annual budget proposed by the
Commission shall be an expenditure sufficient to cover all expenses anticipated
to be incurred relative to the annual audit.
      (c)   The proposed annual budget shall be acted upon by both the City
Council and Fiscal Court, either through approval or amendment, before the
thirtieth day of June of each year.
      (d)   In the event that any proposed annual budget is not acted upon by
the City Council and the Fiscal Court before the June 30 date described above,
the Commission budget approved for the preceding year shall be automatically
reinstated and the Commission may operate under the terms of such budget until
further action of the City Council and Fiscal Court.
      (2)   The city and the County Fiscal Court shall include the Commission
in the annual budget of each entity and shall provide funds for the operation
of the Commission by imposing a 3% transient room tax on the rent for every
occupancy of a suite, room or rooms, charged by all persons, companies,
corporations or other like or similar persons, groups or organizations doing
business as motor courts, motels, hotels, inns, bed and breakfasts, shared
housing or vacation rentals or like or similar accommodations businesses. The
collection and enforcement of the transient room tax from all persons or
entities subject thereto shall be the sole responsibility of the County
Attorney.
      (3)   Transient room taxes shall not apply to the rental or leasing of an
apartment supplied by an individual or business that regularly holds itself out
as exclusively providing apartments. APARTMENT means a room or set of rooms, in
an apartment building, fitted especially with a kitchen and usually leased as a
dwelling for a minimum period of 30 days or more.
   (B)   All moneys collected pursuant to this section and KRS 91A.400 shall be
collected on a monthly basis and shall be maintained in an account separate and
unique from all other funds and revenues collected, and shall be considered tax
revenue for the purposes of KRS 68.100 and KRS 92.330.
   (C)   A portion of the money collected from the imposition of this tax, as
determined by the tax levying body, upon the advice and consent of the Chamber
of Commerce, may be used to finance the cost of acquisition, construction,
operation and maintenance of facilities useful in the attraction and promotion
of tourist and convention business, including projects described in KRS 154.30-
050(2)(a). The balance of the money collected from the imposition of this tax
shall be used for the purposes set forth in KRS 91A.350. Proceeds of the tax
shall not be used as a subsidy in any form to any hotel, motel or restaurant,
except as provided in KRS 154.30-050(2)(a)3.c. Money not expended by the
Commission during any fiscal year shall be used to make up a part of the
Commission’s budget for its next fiscal year.
   (D)   The transient room tax collecting and enforcement entity as described
in division (A)(2) above, or an agent or employee designated in writing by such
entity, is authorized to examine the books, papers and records of any person,
firm, organization or other like or similar accommodation business required
herein to file a return. Said examination shall be permitted in order to
determine the accuracy of any return made, or if no return was made, to
determine the amount of room tax due and owing. The enforcement entity may, at
its option, designate other county and city officials and officers to assist it
in enforcement and examination of said books, papers and records.
   (E)   All transient rooms taxes collected by the county, pursuant to
division (A)(2) above, shall be paid over to the Commission for deposit into
such account as is described in division (B) above, within 30 days of
collection.
      (1)   All transient rooms taxes collected by the city pursuant to this
section and division (A)(2) above shall be paid over to the Commission for
deposit into such account as is described in division (B) above within 30 days
of collection.
      (2)   All transient rooms taxes collected by the state government, or any
agency thereof, and which are at any time transferred either to the government
of city or the County of Anderson, shall be in turn transferred to the
Commission by the receiving city or county government, for deposit into such
account as is described in division (B) above, within 30 days of collection.
   (F)   The Commission, with the approval of the tax levying body, may borrow
money to pay its obligations that cannot be paid at maturity out of current
revenue from the transient room tax, but shall not borrow a sum greater than
can be repaid out of the revenue anticipated from the transient room tax during
the year the money is borrowed. The Commission may pledge its securities for
the repayment of any sum borrowed.
   (G)   The city and/or the County Fiscal Court are authorized and empowered
to issue revenue bonds pursuant to KRS Chapter 58 for public projects. Bonds
issued for the purposes of KRS 91A.350 to 91A.390 may be used to pay any cost
for the acquisition of real estate, the construction of buildings and
appurtenances, the preparation of plans and specifications and legal and other
services incidental to the project or to the issuance of the bonds. The payment
of the bonds, with interest, may be secured by a pledge of and a first lien on
all of the receipts and revenue derived, or to be derived, from the rental or
operation of the property involved. Bond and interest obligations issued
pursuant to this section shall not constitute an indebtedness of the county,
consolidated local government or city. All bonds sold under the authority of
this section shall be subject to competitive bidding as provided by law, and
shall bear interest at a rate not to exceed that established for bonds issued
for public projects under KRS Chapter 58.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 8-20-2018) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Any transient room tax imposed by §§
35.20 through
35.23 remaining unpaid after it becomes due shall bear interest at the rate of
12% per annum of the amount of the unpaid tax payable and added to the
principal amount when paid.
         (b)   If said account remains unpaid 60 days after its due date, the
Commission may seek enforcement and collection through the Office of the County
Attorney. If there is enforcement action taken by the County Attorney, the
facility subject to this chapter shall be the cost of all enforcement action,
including, but not limited to, attorney fees and court costs.
         (c)   Any owner, manager, corporate officer, director or agent in
charge of any facility subject to this chapter is deemed responsible for seeing
that said monies are paid to the Tourist Commission. Sixty days delinquency on
the part of any establishment charged with collecting and paying this tax shall
be prima facie evidence of willful intent not to pay same.
         (d)   Upon conviction for willful intent not to pay said tax, any
person mentioned in §
35.23(A)(2) shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor as defined in KRS Chapter
500 et seq., and, upon conviction, may be fined not more than $250 or sentenced
to imprisonment in the County Jail for not more than 90 days months in said
jail, or both fine and imprisonment may be levied. Each day’s continued
violation shall constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   Each incident which results in a violation of §§
35.20 through
35.23 shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 8-20-2018)
CHAPTER 36: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
36.001   Mission statement
   
36.002   Notice
   
36.003   About the handbook
   
36.004   City government and organization
   
36.005   Effect, amendment and application of handbook policies
   
36.006   Employee handbook
   
36.007   Administration of the city personnel system
   
36.008   Conflicting policies
Hiring and Employment
   
36.020   At-will employment
   
36.021   Equal opportunity employer
   
36.022   Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
   
36.023   Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA)
   
36.024   Application and advertisement of vacant positions
   
36.025   Application for position
   
36.026   Promotions, transfers and temporary appointments
   
36.027   Hiring and selection
   
36.028   Employment of family members
   
36.029   Background and reference checks
   
36.030   Medical examinations
   
36.031   Employee bonding
   
36.032   New employee orientation
   
36.033   Introductory period for police
   
36.034   Job descriptions
   
36.035   Continuous feedback on employee performance
   
36.036   Personnel records
   
36.037   Change in personal information
   
36.038   Access to personnel files
   
36.039   Job references
   
36.040   Record retention
   
36.041   Disciplinary practice/procedures
   
36.042   Demotion
   
36.043   Suspension
   
36.044   Voluntary and involuntary termination of employment
   
36.045   Exit interview
   
36.046   Layoffs (reduction-in-force)
General Employment Policies and Rules
   
36.060   Open door policy - complaint procedure
   
36.061   Sexual and nonsexual harassment
   
36.062   Workplace violence
   
36.063   Workplace safety
   
36.064   Reporting work-related accidents
   
36.065   Protection against retaliation for city employees
   
36.066   Drug- and alcohol-free workplace
   
36.067   Fraternization
   
36.068   Media communications
   
36.069   Hours of operation and work schedules
   
36.070   Tardiness
   
36.071   Meals and rest periods
   
36.072   Inclement weather
   
36.073   Standards of performance and conduct
   
36.074   Dress code and hygiene
   
36.075   Outside employment for employees other than police officers
   
36.076   Uniforms
   
36.077   Use of office and mobile telephones
   
36.078   Mobile telephones
   
36.079   Vehicle use
   
36.080   Distracted driving
   
36.081   Vehicle accident reporting requirements
   
36.082   Information technology (IT) acceptable use
   
36.083   City social media
   
36.084   Employee guidelines for participating in social media
   
36.085   Employee privacy expectations
   
36.086   Smoke-free workplace
   
36.087   Customer relations
   
36.088   Open records policy
   
36.089   Suggestion system
Employee Financial Practices, Reporting and Reimbursement
   
36.100   Purpose of the employee financial practices, reporting and
reimbursement policies
   
36.101   Employee expense reports and reimbursement
   
36.102   Use of a city credit card
   
36.103   Employee travel expense reimbursement
   
36.104   Reimbursable expenses related to official city business
   
36.105   Alcohol reimbursement policy
   
36.106   Contract review and execution
   
36.107   Check handling by city employees
   
36.108   Invoices
Classification and Compensation
   
36.120   Employment types and classification
   
36.121   Fiscal year
   
36.122   Official workweek
   
36.123   Overtime
   
36.124   Work performed by nonexempt employees outside of normal working hours
   
36.125   On-call employees
   
36.126   Work-related training and travel time
   
36.127   Base salary and salary adjustment
   
36.128   Payroll deductions
   
36.129   Time records
   
36.130   Unemployment compensation insurance
Health, Retirement and Other Benefits
   
36.145   Limitations of coverage
   
36.146   Health insurance
   
36.147   Dental insurance
   
36.148   Vision insurance
   
36.149   Life and disability insurance
   
36.150   Employee assistance program (EAP)
   
36.151   Workers’ compensation
   
36.152   Return-to-work program (RTW)
   
36.153   Retirement plan and Social Security
   
36.154   State Public Employee’s Deferred Compensation
   
36.155   Longevity awards
   
36.156   Public service loan forgiveness
   
36.157   Professional memberships, training, licensing and certification
Paid and Unpaid Leaves
   
36.170   Holidays
   
36.171   Vacation leave
   
36.172   Personal leave time
   
36.173   Sick leave
   
36.174   Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)
   
36.175   Maternity and parental leave
   
36.176   Adoption leave
   
36.177   Critical incident leave for police officers and firefighters
   
36.178   Paid leave for volunteer activity
   
36.179   Blood donation leave
   
36.180   Bereavement leave
   
36.181   Unpaid leave of absence
   
36.182   Jury duty and court-ordered appearances
   
36.183   Voting leave
   
36.184   Military leave
   
36.185   Absentee requests
   Appendix A: Appendices and HR Forms
Editor’s note:
This chapter incorporates the City of Irvine Employee Handbook, 2023 Edition.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.001 MISSION STATEMENT.
   The city strives to empower citizens and employees through trust, balance,
creativity and SERVICE:
   (A)   Strive to provide quality service to the citizens of the city so they
feel safe and secure;
   (B)   Encourage employees to provide customer service by exhibiting positive
attitudes and strong work ethics so they can make a difference in the
community;
   (C)   Retain programs and employees that are effective in meeting the needs
of the community;
   (D)   Vitalize the city to provide awareness of services, research and
implement innovative ideas and search for new avenues of growth;
   (E)   Implement and maintain procedures that ensure well-maintained
facilities, provide quality service and sound fiscal practices;
   (F)   Commit all aspects of city government to serve citizens with
effectiveness, fairness, equality, promptness and professional service; and
   (G)   Empower city government and employees to effectively use information
technology infrastructure to improve the quality of life for the citizens of
the city through education and accurate information.
§ 36.002 NOTICE.
   The city’s employee handbook, incorporated herein this chapter, does not
create any contractual or other legal rights. The personnel policies contained
in this handbook do not alter the city’s at-will employment policy nor do they
create an employment contract for any period of time. This handbook may be
added to, terminated or changed at any time by the city.
§ 36.003 ABOUT THE HANDBOOK.
   (A)   The purpose of the city’s employee handbook is to establish a uniform
system for managing personnel matters for all city employees. This handbook and
the policies that it contains provide direction for employees in the
performance of employment duties so that employees can successfully contribute
to the fulfillment of the city’s mission.
   (B)   The policies contained in this handbook are designed to reinforce the
core values of the city. The city believe that when an employee acts in a
manner consistent with the city’s core values in employment activities, both
the employee and the citizens the city serves will prosper.
   (C)   The city’s core values serve as the cultural foundation of the
organization. They embody the spirit and collective conscience of the city and
its employees. The city’s core values describe how the city fulfills the
mission by representing the enduring ideals and principles that guide the
city’s actions.
   (D)   The city employees believes the following.
      (1)   The commonwealth’s cities play an essential role in shaping the
future of the commonwealth.
      (2)   Local decisions are best made at the local level.
      (3)   Exceptional services help the city function effectively and enhance
the quality of life within the city.
      (4)   Building and cultivating relationships with other governments,
businesses and individuals furthers the mission of the city.
   (E)   City employees embrace:
      (1)   Customer service based on attentive listening and measured by
timely and appropriate responses;
      (2)   Credibility built on a commitment to high ethical standards,
accountability, competence and nonpartisanship;
      (3)   Teamwork and continuous learning that drives improvement and
innovation; and
      (4)   Caring and mutual respect that foster a supportive working
environment.
   (F)   Regardless of one’s primary area of work concentration, one is
foremost an employee of the city. While each city employee has different
responsibilities, job duties and departmental assignments in the organizational
structure, employees are expected to work as a team toward the common goal of
advancing the interests of the city.
   (G)   We are pleased that you are part of the city family and hope you view
your employment as an opportunity to help advance the community and thereby
make it an even better place for future generations.
§ 36.004 CITY GOVERNMENT AND ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Form of government.
      (1)   The city operates under the mayor-council form of government. The
mayor-council form is the most prevalent form of city government throughout the
United States and in the commonwealth.
      (2)   Each city organized under the mayor-council plan must have an
elected executive, who is called the Mayor, and an elected council called the
City Council (KRS 83A.130(2) and 83A.030(1)).
      (3)   The distinguishing characteristic of the mayor-council form of city
government is the clear separation of powers between the executive (Mayor) and
the legislative (City Council) branches of government. All of the executive and
administrative authority is vested by statute in the Mayor (KRS 83A.130(3)).
The City Council is expressly prohibited from performing any executive (or
administrative) functions unless those functions have been assigned to it by
statute (KRS 83A.130(11)). With a few exceptions, the Council is restricted to
performing the legislative function. The executive branch and the legislative
branch are intended to be separate, but coequal, branches of government. It is
very similar to the structure of the state government where the executive/
administrative authority is vested in the Governor and the council is vested in
the General Assembly.
   (B)   Powers and duties of the Mayor.
      (1)   (a)   The Mayor is the chief executive and administrative officer
of the city. The Mayor’s principal function is to oversee the management of the
city’s daily affairs.
         (b)   The basic duties and authorities of the Mayor in mayor-council
cities are set forth in KRS 83A.130 as follows:
            1.   Enforce the Mayor-Council plan, city ordinances and orders,
and all applicable statutes;
            2.   Supervise the day-to-day operations of city government and the
conduct of all city officers and employees under the Mayor’s jurisdiction;
            3.   Require each department to make reports as required by
ordinance or as the Mayor deems necessary;
            4.   Serve as liaison with related units of local government
regarding interlocal contracting and joint services;
            5.   Report to the Council and the public on the condition and
needs of the city as deemed desirable or as required by ordinance at least
annually;
            6.   Promulgate procedures subject to Council disapproval to ensure
the orderly functioning of government and compliance with statutes and
ordinances. Copies must be filed with the City Clerk;
            7.   Preside at Council meetings;
            8.   Vote to break a tie at a Council meeting unless otherwise
prevented by a specific statute;
            9.   Approve or veto ordinances. The Mayor may approve an ordinance
by signing it or veto an ordinance by returning it to the Council unsigned
together with a statement of his or her objections within ten days after the
Council approves the ordinance. If the Mayor fails to act by signing or vetoing
the ordinance within ten days, the ordinance becomes effective automatically;
            10.   Make and sign all bonds, notes, contracts and written
obligations of the city;
            11.   Hire all city employees, including police officers, except
for City Council staff;
            12.   Appoint all non-elected officers, as defined in KRS 83A.080,
subject to Council approval;
            13.   Discipline and dismiss all city employees and non-elected
officers at will unless tenure or terms of employment are protected by statute,
ordinance or contract, and except for Council employees;
            14.   Prepare, present and administer the annual budget. See KRS
91A.030;
            15.   Call special meetings of the Council; and
            16.   Provide for the orderly continuation of city government by
delegating authority when necessary or desirable.
      (2)   If the Mayor delegates his or her executive and administrative
powers, duties and responsibilities to subordinate officers and employees, he
or she must do so by written executive order.
      (3)   The Mayor may not delegate his or her executive and administrative
powers, duties and responsibilities to a member of the City Council except when
required to do so by statute. The doctrine of separation of powers, which is
the key feature of the mayor-council form of government, and the specific
language of the statutes compel this conclusion. In support of this conclusion,
KRS 83A.130(11) prohibits the Council from performing any executive function
except those functions assigned to it by statute. Furthermore, KRS 83A.130(7)
refers to the delegation of powers to subordinate officers and employees.
Members of the City Council are not “subordinate” to the Mayor. The members of
the City Council have, as elected officers, a coequal status with the Mayor.
Therefore, when the Mayor is unable to perform his or her executive or
administrative duties because of temporary absence or disability, the
responsibility for performing those functions should be delegated to a non-
elected officer such as the City Clerk/Treasurer, Police Chief and the like, or
to an employee.
      (4)   However, there are two functions that are ordinarily performed by
the Mayor, but which must be performed by a member of the Council when the
Mayor is unable to perform these functions. KRS 83A.130(10) states that the
responsibility of “approving ordinances or promulgating administrative
procedures may only be delegated to an elected officer,” i.e., a member of the
Council. Therefore, if it becomes necessary to delegate such responsibility, it
must be delegated to a Council member.
      (5)   Also, the Mayor may not delegate the responsibility of presiding
over meetings of the Council (KRS 83A.130(10)). In the Mayor’s absence, the
Council selects one of its members to preside in place of the Mayor. This may
be done in advance by ordinance or may be done by motion and vote at the
meeting. A Council member who presides in place of the Mayor does not
temporarily lose his or her status as a member of Council and may continue to
introduce legislation and vote on any issue.
      (6)   Any executive or administrative action which is taken in the
Mayor’s absence may be rescinded by the Mayor within 30 days of the date the
action was taken with the approval of the Council.
      (7)   If the Mayor is unable to perform his or her duties for 60
consecutive days, the Council can declare the office of Mayor vacant in
accordance with KRS 83A.040.
   (C)   Powers and duties of the Council.
      (1)   KRS 83A.130(11) provides that the “council of the city will be
vested in and exercised by the elected council of the city.” City councils may
not perform any executive or administrative function unless specifically
authorized by statute (KRS 83A.130(11)). For instance, Council members may not
supervise the day-to-day operations of city government or exercise supervisory
authority over city employees.
      (2)   KRS 83A.130 and other sections in KRS Chapter 83A set forth the
specific powers and authorities of the City Council as follows:
         (a)   Establish by ordinance all appointed offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices;
         (b)   Enact all codes, rules and regulations for the general public’s
health, safety and welfare;
         (c)   Provide sufficient revenues to operate city government through
the adoption of an annual budget ordinance and by levying all taxes and
establishing all fees and charges for city services;
         (d)   Establish by ordinance the compensation to be paid to all
elected and appointed officers and employees of the city (KRS 83A.070);
         (e)   May investigate all activities of city government and may
require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit sworn statements
regarding the performance of his or her official duties. If an office,
department or agency under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, written
notice of the Council’s action must be provided to the Mayor who then has the
right to review any statement before its submission to the Council and to
appear on behalf of the office, department or agency in the course of the
investigation (KRS 83A.130(13));
         (f)   May disapprove regulations promulgated by the Mayor;
         (g)   May override mayoral vetoes by the affirmative vote of one more
than a majority of the membership of the entire Council. If the Council wishes
to override a veto, it must do so by the second regular meeting following the
return of the ordinance;
         (h)   May appoint a new mayor or council member if a vacancy occurs in
the office (KRS 83A.040);
         (i)   May remove elected officers for misconduct, inability or willful
neglect of office (KRS 83A.040(9));
         (j)   May change the manner of electing city officers by adopting the
nonpartisan primary election process (KRS 83A.050(2));
         (k)   May divide the city into wards for the purpose of electing
Council members (KRS 83A.100);
         (l)   Approve the appointment of non-elected city officers (KRS
83A.080(3)); and
         (m)   May call special meetings upon written request of a majority of
the Council.
§ 36.005 EFFECT, AMENDMENT AND APPLICATION OF HANDBOOK POLICIES.
   (A)   The city’s employee handbook, 2023 edition, incorporated herein,
contains information about the city’s employment policies and procedures and an
overview of the city’s benefits. For specific information about employee
benefits, refer to the plan documents which are controlling. The policies and
procedures in this handbook are guidelines only. The city reserves the right to
interpret and administer the provisions of this handbook as needed. The
provisions of this handbook will repeal and replace all previously adopted
policies and procedures governing employment with the city.
   (B)   Except for the at-will employment policy which can only be changed in
writing by the Mayor, this handbook and any of the policies and procedures
contained herein are subject to change at the discretion of the city. The city
may amend or terminate any policy or procedure contained in this handbook at
any time with or without notice. However, the city will communicate any changes
to all employees in a timely fashion.
   (C)   Each employee should read and become familiar with the information
contained in this handbook. Failure to comply with the city’s policies or
procedures may result in discipline up to and including termination.
   (D)   The provisions in this handbook are not intended to in any way create
any contractual obligations with respect to employment.
   (E)   These policies and procedures are intended to cover most personnel
problems, actions and issues
which may arise. Those not specifically covered will be interpreted by the
Mayor; such interpretation will be in concert with the spirit and letter of
these policies and procedures. In addition, the Mayor may write administrative
memoranda to interpret or clarify existing policies. These memoranda will have
the force of policy and will be filed with the personnel policies and
procedures.
   (F)   The policies contained in this handbook apply to all non-elected
officers and employees of the city regardless of their departmental assignment
or primary responsibilities. These policies may also apply to volunteers,
elected officials and members of boards or commissions as required by state and
federal laws or as noted within the policy.
§ 36.006 EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK.
   The City Clerk will ensure that a current copy of the employee handbook is
prepared and distributed to all new and current employees. All employees are
expected to read and sign the Handbook Acknowledgment (HR Form 01) in Appendix
A within 30 days of employment or within 30 days of any amendment to the
handbook. The City Clerk will maintain a copy of the Handbook Acknowledgment
Form in the employee’s personnel file pursuant to the State Department of
Libraries and Archives (KDLA) Record Retention Schedule.
§ 36.007 ADMINISTRATION OF THE CITY PERSONNEL SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city’s policies are applied and enforced by the Mayor and
supervisory employees. The city expects supervisory staff to foster a working
environment where employees take the primary role in their own professional
growth and development. Supervisory employees should provide continuous
feedback to their employees regarding performance and should immediately
address any potential infractions of these policies with employees.
   (B)   To ensure fairness and consistency in all personnel matters, the city
has designated the Mayor and City Clerk to be responsible for general oversight
of the city’s personnel system and for all centralized personnel matters, such
as the recruitment and selection of employees, revision of job descriptions,
wage and salary schedules, administration of benefit programs and maintenance
of personnel records.
   (C)   Notification to the City Clerk, the Mayor and compliance with the
procedures established by the city are required prior to a department
supervisory employee or other employee conducting any interview for potential
employment or internship, making any offer of employment or internship or
making any modifications to the compensation or benefits of employees. No
supervisory employee or other employee will alter, suspend or fail to enforce
or adhere to the policies contained in this handbook.
§ 36.008 CONFLICTING POLICIES.
   In the event of any conflicting policies, rules or regulations, those that
apply will be based on the following in descending order: Kentucky Revised
Statutes (KRS), this code of ordinances, the employee handbook incorporated
herein and any departmental policy and procedures manual or written directives.
HIRING AND EMPLOYMENT
§ 36.020 AT-WILL EMPLOYMENT.
   All city employees are at-will employees. There is no contract of
employment, express or implied, and either the city or the employee is free to
terminate the employment relationship at any time with or without cause. The
city’s at-will employment policy will only be varied by a specific written
agreement that is entered into and signed by the Mayor and an individual
employee. Therefore, nothing contained in this handbook, or any other document
provided to the employee, will be relied upon or interpreted to form a contract
binding upon the city regarding any benefit, policy, procedure or other term or
condition of employment.
§ 36.021 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER.
   (A)   The city is an equal opportunity employer. It is the city’s policy to
afford equal employment opportunity to all qualified persons regardless of
race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, genetic makeup, gender
identity, pregnancy, childbirth, pregnancy/childbirth-related medical
conditions, national origin, disability, veteran or family status, an
individual’s status as a smoker or nonsmoker or any other status or condition
protected by applicable local, state or federal laws, except where a bona fide
occupational qualification applies.
   (B)   The city’s commitment as an equal opportunity employer extends to all
its employment and personnel practices, including job opportunities,
promotions, pay and benefits, discipline, discharge, training and other social
and recreational activities sponsored by the city.
   (C)   The harassment, retaliation, coercion, interference or intimidation of
any employee due to that employee’s race, religion, color, national origin,
sex, sexual orientation, genetic makeup, gender identity, pregnancy,
childbirth, pregnancy/childbirth-related medical conditions, age, disability,
veteran or family status or because the employee is a smoker or nonsmoker is
strictly forbidden. Any employee who experiences such treatment should
immediately report it to his or her supervisor or other supervisory or
management staff in accordance with the sexual and nonsexual harassment policy
within §
36.061.
§ 36.022 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA).
   (A)   The city will offer equal employment opportunities for qualified
individuals who may have a physical or mental disability, including medical
conditions related to pregnancy, but who can still perform the essential job
functions with or without reasonable accommodations. The city will provide
reasonable accommodations to individuals qualifying under ADA only when that
accommodation does not create an “undue hardship” to the city.
   (B)   Any employee who feels he or she may need an accommodation to perform
his or her job functions should notify his or her supervisor in writing.
Because analysis under the ADA requires an open dialogue between the employee
and the employer, the employee and the supervisor are encouraged to discuss the
situation openly and involve the Mayor and other necessary staff as
appropriate.
   (C)   Medical information may be requested by the city to assist in
understanding the employee’s capabilities and limitations.
§ 36.023 IMMIGRATION REFORM AND CONTROL ACT (IRCA).
   (A)   The city will comply with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of
1986 (IRCA), including Form I-9 requirements.
   (B)   Under IRCA, all employers must complete an Employment Eligibility
Verification Form, commonly known as Form I-9, for all current employees and
maintain those forms in a separate file for the longer of either:
      (1)   Three years from the first day of employment; or
      (2)   One year after the employment ended.
   (C)   IRCA prohibits employers from:
      (1)   Knowingly hiring, recruiting or referring (for a fee) noncitizens
who are not authorized to work in the United States;
      (2)   Requiring specific documents to complete Form I-9; and
      (3)   Retaliating against employees that file a charge or participate in
an investigation.
§ 36.024 APPLICATION AND ADVERTISEMENT OF VACANT POSITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When a vacancy occurs, current city employees may be notified of
the vacancy by placing written notice(s) in strategic locations throughout city
offices. Notices posted will include position title, summary of duties,
position qualifications and the time limit for applying.
      (2)   Employees who wish to apply for the position must present a
completed Employment Application Form to the City Clerk.
      (3)   The Mayor may fill the vacancy by either promoting a current
employee or employing a person from outside of the existing city government
organization.
   (B)   When announcements of vacant position(s) are made outside of the
organization, any of the following procedures may apply.
      (1)   The city’s open application policy allows persons interested in
employment with the city to complete an Employment Application Form at any time
regardless of whether a vacancy exists indicating the position(s) applicable. A
completed Employment Application Form will be considered active for a period of
six months.
      (2)   The city may advertise all vacant position(s) in a newspaper or
other form of media. All announcements will include such information as where
to apply, deadline for applications, pay range for the position, summary of
duties and position qualifications. All written announcements of vacant
position(s) will also contain the following statement, “An Equal Opportunity
Employer.” Written announcements of vacant position(s) also may include, “Any
applicant who needs an ADA accommodation in the employment selection process
will request the accommodation from the City Clerk.”
§ 36.025 APPLICATION FOR POSITION.
   (A)   An Employment Application Form supplied by the city and completed by
the applicant will include information about the applicant’s training,
experience and additional information as required. Upon request, the applicant
will be given a copy of the job description stating the duties of the position.
   (B)   No person may be appointed to a position unless information on the
official Employment Application Form is verified, and he or she meets the
qualifications for the position as set forth in the position description.
   (C)   The Employment Application Form must be signed and dated by the
applicant.
§ 36.026 PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS AND TEMPORARY APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   Vacancies may be filled by transfer or promotion from within the city.
Employees may apply for the position by submitting a written request through
their supervisor or the City Clerk. An employee may be transferred or promoted
from one position to another only if the employee has the qualifications for
the higher position. The same procedures as those authorized for ascertaining
qualifications for initial appointment to a position will be followed. All
pertinent documentation of said transfer or promotion will be entered into the
employee’s personnel file.
   (B)   In the case where vacancies cannot be filled from within city service
or from an eligibility list, temporary appointments may be made by the Mayor
for a period not to exceed six months. In cases where the temporary appointment
is to a non-elected office position, appointments are made by the Mayor with
approval by the City Council.
   (C)   Temporary appointments will terminate as soon as a qualified candidate
can fill the position in
question in accordance with personnel hiring procedures.
§ 36.027 HIRING AND SELECTION.
   (A)   Appointment to a position within the city will be made only after it
has been determined the person being considered meets the qualifications set
out in the current job description for which the appointment is made.
   (B)   The policy will apply to current employees who request a transfer or
promotion to a vacant position as well as new applicants for employment or
reemployment.
   (C)   The qualification of an applicant for a position will be ascertained
based on one or more of the following:
      (1)   Information the applicant supplies on the official Employment
Application Form;
      (2)   Written, performance or physical tests, examination or any
combination which may be required for the position;
      (3)   Personal interview;
      (4)   Information and evaluations supplied by references given by the
applicant;
      (5)   Prior to employment with the city, but only after an offer of
employment with the city, the prospective employee must submit to and pass a
preemployment drug test; and
      (6)   Other appropriate information as determined.
   (D)   (1)   All employees are appointed by the Mayor except non-elected city
officers pursuant to KRS 83A.080. All non-elected city officers will be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
      (2)   Non-elected officers include:
         (a)   City Clerk;
         (b)   Chief of Police; and
         (c)   Fire Chief.
§ 36.028 EMPLOYMENT OF FAMILY MEMBERS.
   Pursuant to Chapter 38, the following apply.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency will advocate,
recommend or cause the:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement of a family member to an office or position of
employment with the city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer of the city or a city agency will supervise or manage the
work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer will participate in any action relating to the employment
or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall not
prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in the
development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member;
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group and the family member benefits to no greater than any other
similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section will not apply to any employment,
relationship or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed
prior to December 31, 1994.
   (E)   As used in this policy, the term FAMILY MEMBER means a spouse, parent,
child, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-
law, grandparent or grandchild.
§ 36.029 BACKGROUND AND REFERENCE CHECKS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to perform preemployment background
checks pursuant to KRS Chapter 335B. The purpose of performing these checks is
to determine and/or confirm, within appropriate legal and professional limits,
the qualifications and suitability of a candidate for the employment position
for which the candidate is being considered. Many job duties involve working
closely with other employees and/or the public, significant city-related
driving, access to expensive safety-sensitive tools and machinery, access to
confidential information or access to financial accounts. Therefore, criminal
records may exclude candidates with certain criminal convictions that are
determined to be job-related, as discussed below. This policy will help ensure
that employment-related decisions utilizing preemployment background checks are
made in accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   The city will perform preemployment background checks on all
candidates for employment once they have been offered the employment position
by using the Background Check Release (HR Form 03) in Appendix A. Review will
be limited to information regarding only convictions that are determined to be
job-related and consistent with business necessity as discussed below. In
addition, if an employee changes positions within the city, an additional
criminal background check may be required.
   (C)   Candidates for employment within the Police and Fire Department may be
subject to different requirements for preemployment background checks. Please
refer to the Police and Fire Department policies and procedures for more
information.
   (D)   The city requires that employees identify any arrests or criminal
convictions and complete a self disclosure form. The city will individually
evaluate any arrest or criminal conviction disclosed by an employee prior to
deciding that employee’s suitability for initial employment or continued
employment.
   (E)   In addition to KRS Chapter 335B, the city complies with the Federal
Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), federal and state equal employment
opportunity laws and all other applicable legal authority that affect the
performing of preemployment background checks.
   (G)   The results of a preemployment background check are confidential and
are only to be shared with employees of the city on a strict “need-to-know”
basis.
   (H)   Under no circumstances is having a criminal history or conviction an
automatic exclusion to a
candidate’s eligibility for employment.
   (I)   All candidates are required to sign appropriate authorizations and
consents to allow the city to
perform any preemployment background checks.
   (J)   Background checks are conducted in accordance with all applicable
federal, state and local laws, including any state-law restrictions regarding
criminal history information that may be obtained and/or used by the city for
employment purposes.
   (K)   This policy does not override city policy that candidates providing
false or misleading information on their application during an interview or at
any time during the hiring process may be eliminated from any further
consideration. Candidates are expected to provide accurate and complete
information and not to omit material information needed for the city to make a
hiring decision.
   (L)   Prior to taking any adverse action as to a job candidate, appropriate
pre-adverse and adverse action notices will be sent to the candidate pursuant
to federal and any state FCRA laws together with a copy of the report.
   (M)   All candidates will be individually reviewed by the Mayor and the
appropriate position supervisor. Decisions will be made with respect to
employment based on the totality of the candidate’s qualifications and the
relevant results of the preemployment background check.
   (N)   In general, the relevance of a particular preemployment background
check to a candidate’s eligibility for employment or employee’s eligibility for
continued employment is based upon the following factors:
      (1)   The nature and gravity of the offense for which the applicant or
employee was convicted;
      (2)   The time that has passed since the conviction; and
      (3)   The nature of the job held or sought.
   (O)   The city will only consider final adjudications of guilt, i.e.,
convictions and guilty pleas, for the potentially disqualifying offenses listed
below or other offenses determined to be job-related. Convictions that have
been expunged, discharged or otherwise vacated will not be considered. Various
states use different terminology regarding convictions. Therefore, if it is
unclear whether a certain offense resulted in a conviction, the City Attorney
should be consulted.
   (P)   A criminal history or conviction does not automatically preclude a
candidate’s eligibility for employment. To assist supervisors and the Mayor in
reviewing criminal records, below is a list of convictions that may disqualify
an applicant or employee from employment with the city.
      (1)   Crimes involving violence, theft or drug distribution/trafficking.
Certain crimes involving violence, theft or drug distribution/trafficking have
been determined to be job related to all positions within the city.
Disqualification of applicants or dismissal of employees with certain
convictions outlined below is consistent with federal and state requirements.
         (a)   Violent crimes. The city has determined that felony convictions
within the past seven years for crimes involving violence may disqualify an
applicant or employee because of workplace violence concerns, the desire to
provide a safe workplace for employees and customers, because many of the city
employees have significant interaction with customers and/or coworkers on a
day-to-day basis and the city desires these interactions to be safe as well.
         (b)   Theft or property-related crimes. The city has determined that
felony convictions within the past seven years for crimes involving theft,
dishonesty, breach of trust or destruction of property may disqualify an
applicant or employee due access to equipment and tools, inventory, proprietary
information and/or financial or confidential information.
         (c)   Drug distribution/trafficking crimes. The city has determined
that felony convictions within the past seven years for crimes involving drug
distribution or trafficking may disqualify an applicant or employee because
these convictions also indicate a general disregard for federal, state or local
laws.
         (d)   Drug possession or use convictions. The city does not generally
disqualify applicants or dismiss employees for drug possession or use
convictions. This does not affect the application of its drug- and alcohol-free
workplace policy.
      (2)   Computer crimes. Because of access to city confidential and
proprietary information, customer information, financial information and/or
computer systems, the city has determined that felony convictions within the
past seven years for computer-related offenses are job-related for management
and office positions. Applicants or employees in these job categories who have
been convicted of such computer crimes present an unacceptable risk to the city
and may, therefore, be disqualified absent mitigating circumstances.
      (3)   Driving crimes. To reduce potential city liability, the city must
review applicant and employee driving records for jobs where the job duties
include significant amounts of unsupervised, city-related driving. The city
will comply with all federal, state and local requirements regarding motor
vehicle record checks, including, but not limited to, obtaining consent from
the applicant or employee prior to requesting the record and complying with
federal and/or state Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) requirements. Felony
convictions within the past seven years for vehicle-related offenses,
including, but not limited to, driving under the influence (DUI) and driving
while intoxicated (DWI), have been determined to be job-related and present an
unacceptable risk to the city. Therefore, applicants and employees in positions
that involve business-related driving who have been convicted of such offenses
may be disqualified absent mitigating circumstances.
      (4)   Individualized assessment. Before any applicant or employee is
disqualified based on his or her criminal history, the applicant or employee
will be given an opportunity to provide individual information regarding the
circumstances of his or her criminal history. The City Clerk will request that
the applicant or employee submit a written, signed statement regarding his or
her criminal history. The Mayor and the position supervisor will consider all
information provided by each applicant or employee to determine whether the
information provided sufficiently mitigates the circumstances of the
disqualifying conviction pursuant to KRS Chapter 335B.
   (Q)   Credit checks are generally not part of the background check process
and are not used to make hiring decisions. In certain positions requiring
treasury functions and accounts payable/receivable, a credit check may be
performed due to the nature of the responsibilities for such jobs, including
access to city accounts, cash and the ability to be bonded. Each applicant’s or
employee’s credit history will be reviewed in the context of all other
available information regarding the applicant or employee to determine whether
his or her credit history poses an unacceptable risk to the city. Such
applicants or employees will be provided with an opportunity to explain his or
her credit history prior to a final determination.
§ 36.030 MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS.
   (A)   In reviewing applicants’ qualifications for certain positions and
ensuring that currently employed workers are fit and capable of performing the
essential functions of their positions, the city requires individuals to
undergo physical examinations which can include drug tests.
   (B)   The general purpose of these examinations is to determine whether the
individuals being tested are physically able to perform the essential functions
of the job in question without creating a significant threat to the safety or
well-being of the individual, other employees or members of the public. These
examinations and tests are conducted on a nondiscriminatory basis and conform
with the requirements of the ADA and other federal, state and local laws
guaranteeing fair treatment and equal employment opportunities to individuals
with disabilities and members of other protected groups.
   (C)   Applicants for certain positions are required to undergo a post-offer
physical examination that evaluates their fitness and ability to perform the
essential functions of the positions for which they are being considered. All
conditional offers of employment extended to candidates who are asked to
undergo a physical examination are contingent on satisfactory completion of
this requirement within the scheduled period.
   (D)   In certain situations, the city can require currently employed workers
to undergo a physical examination that evaluates their fitness and ability to
perform the essential functions of their position.
§ 36.031 EMPLOYEE BONDING.
   All applicants seeking city employment involving the handling of city funds
or access to city financial accounts will be bondable and may be subject to a
post-offer credit check. All employees involved in the handling of city funds
or financial accounts will be bonded at the expense of the city.
§ 36.032 NEW EMPLOYEE ORIENTATION.
   (A)   An orientation may be made available to all new employees as soon as
possible after their first day of employment.
   (B)   A copy of the employee handbook will be made available to all
employees at each workstation. A signed Handbook Acknowledgment Form of the
original employee handbook and any revisions thereof will be required of all
employees subject to these policies. The signed statement will be maintained in
the employee’s personnel file and retained pursuant to the KDLA Record
Retention Schedule.
   (C)   New hires will be given a benefits package if they qualify. The City
Clerk will cover the benefits package with the employee and will give the
employee a due date when the package must be turned in to qualify for the
benefits package. Failure to submit the package on the specified date may
render the employee ineligible for some benefits.
   (D)   The new employee’s schedule and job description will be discussed. The
City Clerk will use the Job Description Review and Acknowledgment (HR Form 02)
in Appendix A to ensure the employee understands the expectations and is able
to meet the physical requirements of the job. The Job Description Review and
Acknowledgment Form and the job description will be signed and placed in his or
her personnel file and a copy will be given to the employee.
   (E)   The City Clerk will ensure that all required state and federal forms
are completed and placed in his or her personnel file prior to the employee
starting any physical work. All required information will then be filed with
the federal, state and local governments.
§ 36.033 INTRODUCTORY PERIOD FOR POLICE.
   (A)   Police officers will serve an introductory period of 12 months. If an
officer is required to complete basic training to receive certification, the
introductory period will begin after successful completion of basic training.
   (B)   While serving under the initial introductory period, officers and
firefighters may be dismissed at any time without the right of appeal unless
otherwise provided by law.
   (C)   Performance of police officers will be regularly evaluated during the
introductory period of employment by the supervisor.
   (D)   Completion of the introductory period in no way alters the at-will
status of the employee.
§ 36.034 JOB DESCRIPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The city considers the job description prepared and maintained
for every position as one of the most important documents to ensure effective
hiring practices and to provide an equal employment opportunity to all
qualified individuals.
      (2)   The following procedures are designed to ensure the accuracy,
completeness, timeliness and fairness of the job descriptions.
         (a)   Annually the City Clerk, with the assistance of the supervisors,
will review the city’s job descriptions to ensure that they are accurate,
complete and up-to-date.
         (b)   Whenever possible, the supervisor should seek employee input in
reviewing the description’s accuracy and completeness.
         (c)   The job descriptions should contain information that accurately
reflects each position’s essential functions, duties, responsibilities,
purpose, working conditions and reporting relationships as well as the
knowledge, skills and abilities required of employees.
   (B)   Each time a job description is updated, the City Clerk will use the
Job Description Review and Acknowledgment Form to ensure the employee
understands the job’s expectations and is able to meet the physical
requirements of the job. The Job Description Review and Acknowledgment Form and
the job description will be signed and placed in the employee’s personnel file
and a copy will be given to the employee.
§ 36.035 CONTINUOUS FEEDBACK ON EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   Employee performance will be evaluated by supervisors on a continuous
basis.
   (B)   Each January supervisors will meet with employees individually to set
goals for the year.
   (C)   Supervisors will coach employees by recognizing positive performance
and providing constructive feedback for improvement. Supervisors will also
regularly discuss employee progress toward their annual goal(s).
   (D)   Supervisors will promptly provide appropriate feedback following the
employee’s performance. Supervisors will then document these discussions on the
Continuous Feedback (HR Form 15) in Appendix A. The form will remain in the
employee’s personnel file.
   (E)   For specific policies regarding evaluations for sworn police officers,
refer to the Police Department Policy and Procedure Manual.
§ 36.036 PERSONNEL RECORDS.
   (A)   A personnel file will be maintained for each city employee by the City
Clerk. All changes in the status of employees will be recorded in these files
which will be retained and maintained in accordance with applicable state and
federal laws.
   (B)   The personnel file will include:
      (1)   Employee’s name, permanent address and phone number;
      (2)   Position title;
      (3)   Completed application form;
      (4)   Hiring date;
      (5)   Departmental assignment;
      (6)   Salary;
      (7)   All changes in status as a city employee; and
      (8)   Whatever additional information these ordinances, other governing
laws or the city may require.
   (C)   Information regarding the medical condition or history of an employee,
including drug test results, will be collected and maintained on separate forms
and in separate confidential medical files subject to disclosure only as
permitted by law.
   (D)   Form I-9 will also be kept in a separate file in alphabetical order.
§ 36.037 CHANGE IN PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of each employee to promptly notify the City
Clerk of any changes in personnel data by completing the Change in Personal
Information (HR Form 13) in Appendix A. Personal mailing addresses, telephone
numbers, number and names of dependents, individuals to be contacted in the
event of an emergency, educational accomplishments and similar status reports
should be accurate and current at all times.
   (B)   For necessary changes to be made without penalty, changes of marital
status and dependents must be made within 30 days of the qualifying event.
§ 36.038 ACCESS TO PERSONNEL FILES.
   (A)   The City Clerk maintains a personnel file on each employee. The
personnel file includes information like the employee’s job application,
resume, documentation of performance appraisals, salary increases and other
employment records.
   (B)   Personnel files are the property of the city and subject to the Open
Records Act. Access to an employee’s personnel file is strictly controlled and
granted only to authorized individuals who have a legitimate reason to review
information in a file or as authorized under the Open Records Act. Employees
will be notified of any request to view their personnel file.
   (C)   With reasonable advance notice, employees may review their own
personnel file in the presence of the City Clerk.
§ 36.039 JOB REFERENCES.
   (A)   All requests for job references and inquiries regarding an
individual’s employment with the city will be forwarded to the City Clerk for
an appropriate response. The City Clerk will consult with the Mayor and may
permit the employee receiving the request to respond. The Mayor will review any
response before it is finalized. This section will not prohibit an employee
from being listed as a reference for an individual.
   (B)   The city’s policy on job references is to provide information on
position, salary and beginning and ending dates of employment. The law may also
require disclosure of incidents of workplace violence involving the employee to
a potential employer.
§ 36.040 RECORD RETENTION.
   The city will maintain all city records pursuant to the KDLA Record
Retention Schedule. A copy of the email retention requirements can be found
with the City Clerk.
§ 36.041 DISCIPLINARY PRACTICE/PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   The city seeks to encourage employees to change problem behavior
rather than focusing on punitive measures as a solution. When appropriate, city
supervisors may use the following disciplinary procedures depending on the
severity or frequency of the offense or problem behavior. Supervisors may use
any of these disciplinary methods at any time.
      (2)   This list does not require a progressive disciplinary methodology
to be used by supervisors:
         (a)   Verbal warning, reprimand/coaching or counseling by a
supervisor;
         (b)   Written reprimand/counseling by a supervisor;
         (c)   Suspension with or without pay;
         (d)   Demotion and/or reduction in pay; and
         (e)   Termination of employment.
   (B)   Supervisors using the disciplinary procedures outlined in division (A)
above shall:
      (1)   Document any disciplinary session or conference conducted for the
purposes of correcting behaviors that are in violation of the policies
contained in this handbook or are conducted with the intent to correct
reoccurring issues related to employee performance on the Disciplinary Form (HR
Form 14) in Appendix A; and
      (2)   Provide a copy of any written documentation related to the use of
disciplinary procedures to the City Clerk for placement in the employee’s
personnel file.
   (C)   For police officers, any general personnel matter will be handled as
stated above; however, any external complaint filed against a police officer,
or any violation of law enforcement procedures, will require the city to follow
the process outlined in KRS 15.520 once the officer has completed the
introductory period.
§ 36.042 DEMOTION.
   (A)   An employee may be demoted upon recommendation of a supervisor on the
Disciplinary Form and with the approval of the Mayor.
   (B)   The provisions of KRS 15.520 will regulate demotions of officers in
the Police Department who have completed the introductory period only when
involving an external citizen’s complaint or any violation of law enforcement
procedures and the officer has completed the introductory period.
   (C)   All pertinent documentation of demotions, including the Disciplinary
Form, will be entered into the employee’s personnel file.
§ 36.043 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   A supervisor may:
      (1)   Suspend the employee with pay until the Mayor reviews the violation
provided the Mayor has delegated this authority to the supervisor by executive
order in accordance with KRS Chapter 83A; and/or
      (2)   Request in writing on the Disciplinary Form that the Mayor suspend
the employee with or without pay. The request will include the reason(s) for
the suspension along with details of previous disciplinary action regarding the
employee.
   (B)   The Mayor may suspend an employee with or without pay for any period
up to and including four calendar weeks depending upon the severity of the
offense; however, a maximum time limit will not apply when an employee is
suspended with or without pay due to an investigation of an alleged offense.
   (C)   The suspended employee will be notified of the suspension in writing.
The notice will include the reason(s) for and duration of the suspension, if
known.
   (D)   Employees suspended without pay for a period of one calendar month or
more will forfeit fringe benefits including accrual of sick and vacation leave
as well as the city’s contribution to any insurance benefits during the
suspension.
   (E)   If, after an investigation, the Mayor finds that the suspension was
not warranted, the employee will be reinstated to his or her position with back
pay and benefits.
   (F)   The provisions of KRS 15.520 will regulate suspensions of officers in
the Police Department who have completed the introductory period only when
involving an external citizen’s complaint or any violation of law enforcement
procedures.
   (G)   All pertinent documentation of said suspension will be entered into
the employee’s personnel file.
§ 36.044 VOLUNTARY AND INVOLUNTARY TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   The Mayor has the authority to appoint and remove all city employees
except as otherwise provided by statute, ordinance or contract. Statutes that
provide otherwise regarding the termination of employment include the
following.
      (1)   For police officers, KRS 15.520 applies to police officers that
have completed the introductory period and only to any external citizen
complaint or a violation of law enforcement procedures and requires a hearing
conducted by the city in the manner prescribed by KRS 15.520.
      (2)   For non-elected officers, KRS 83A.080 requires a written reason be
provided to the non-elected officer upon termination.
   (B)   Employees also have the right to terminate their employment at any
time and for any reason. The city asks that they provide a written notice at
least two weeks prior to their intent to leave in order to assist the city in
the smooth transition of their job duties.
   (C)   Employees cannot use accrued leave time, i.e., vacation, sick or
personal, to extend the termination date. The employee’s last day actually
worked is the date of termination.
   (D)   In the event of the termination of his or her employment for any
reason, he or she must return all property of the city, including uniforms,
keys, credit cards, mobile phones, computer software and hardware, proprietary
and confidential materials, reports and any other city property that may be in
his or her possession. This property must be returned prior to the last day of
his or her employment. If an employee ceases to be employed during the year and
does not return city property by the last day of employment, the employee must
pay to the city the value of the city property. If possible, the value of the
unreturned property will be deducted from the nonexempt employee’s final
paycheck if the deduction does not take the employee’s pay below minimum wage.
   (E)   All pertinent documentation of said termination will be entered into
the employee’s personnel file.
§ 36.045 EXIT INTERVIEW.
   All employees may be asked to complete an exit interview with the Mayor or
his or her designee upon termination of employment. This interview will enable
the city to obtain information regarding why the employee resigned. The
interview will also allow the city an opportunity to cover information for the
employee on insurance, retirement, any other benefits and for the return of
city property in addition to obtaining a forwarding address (if necessary) and
any other required information.
§ 36.046 LAYOFFS (REDUCTION-IN-FORCE).
   (A)   The Mayor may lay off an employee or employees because of lack of work
or funds. The order of layoff will be determined by the needs of the city.
   (B)   Consideration will be given to both the seniority and merit of persons
being considered for layoff.
   (C)   Temporary employees and seasonal employees will be laid off before
full-time employees within class(es) affected by the layoff.
   (D)   The Mayor will notify the employee(s) of the layoff in writing as soon
as possible prior to the layoff. The notice will explain the reason(s) for and
duration of the layoff (if known), and a copy of the layoff notice will be
placed in the employee’s personnel folder.
   (E)   An employee who has given satisfactory service and is laid off may be
eligible for reemployment in other positions if he or she meets the
qualifications for the position and if the position is vacant.
GENERAL EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND RULES
§ 36.060 OPEN DOOR POLICY - COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   At the city, we encourage all employees and volunteers to meet with
their immediate supervisor, any supervisor they feel comfortable with or the
Mayor to discuss any employment issues or concerns that they may have.
   (B)   The city is committed to maintaining this open door policy where
honest discussion of employee and volunteer concerns can take place in a safe
and supportive environment.
   (C)   Misunderstandings or conflicts can arise in any organization. To
ensure effective working relations, it is important that such matters be
resolved before serious problems develop. Most incidents resolve themselves
naturally; however, if a situation persists that the employee believes is
detrimental to him or her or to the city, he or she should bring his or her
concerns to the attention of a supervisor or the Mayor.
§ 36.061 SEXUAL AND NONSEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Sexual and nonsexual harassment of any kind is absolutely prohibited
and will not be tolerated. Sexual and nonsexual harassment negatively affects
morale, motivation and job performance. It is inappropriate, offensive and
illegal.
   (B)   (1)   Sexual harassment on the job is employment discrimination within
the meaning of Title VII of the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1964 and KRS
Chapter 344. In general, SEXUAL HARASSMENT means any unwelcome or offensive
sexual advances, requests for sexual favors or other verbal or physical conduct
of a sexual nature. Sexual harassment can come from a supervisor, fellow
employee or a person other than an employee who has contact with the city
employees. Sexual harassment is unacceptable and is prohibited at work and in
work-related settings.
      (2)   Behavior that constitutes sexual harassment includes, but is not
limited to:
         (a)   Deliberate, repeated or unsolicited verbal comments, gestures or
physical actions of a sexual nature toward another person;
         (b)   Approval, recommendation or a refusal to take any personnel
action with respect to an employee or applicant because of:
            1.   The employee’s or applicant’s rejection of sexual advances,
demands, favors or sexual activity; and
            2.   The employee’s or applicant’s reporting of a sexual advance or
demand for sexual activity.
         (c)   Explicit or implicit promises of preferential treatment
regarding an individual’s employment status in return for sexual favors or
sexual activity;
         (d)   Exercise or attempted exercise of the power or authority of
one’s position to control, influence or affect the career, salary, job or other
employment conditions of an employee or applicant in exchange for sexual
favors;
         (e)   Repeated sexual jokes, flirtations, advances or propositions;
         (f)   Graphic verbal commentary about an individual’s body, sexual
prowess or sexual deficiencies;
         (g)   Leering, whistling, touching, pinching, assaulting or coercing
sexual acts;
         (h)   Suggestive, insulting or obscene comments or gestures; and
         (i)   The display in the workplace of sexually suggestive objects,
pictures or reading material.
   (C)   Any conduct that is intimidating or hostile and interferes with an
employee’s work performance is prohibited and will not be tolerated. This
includes harassment because of an individual’s race, religion, color, national
origin, sex, sexual orientation, genetic makeup, gender identity or expression,
pregnancy, childbirth, pregnancy/childbirth-related medical conditions, age,
disability, veteran or family status or because the employee is a smoker or
nonsmoker.
   (D)   Any employee who believes he or she has been subjected to sexual or
nonsexual harassment should report the incident promptly to one of the
following: his or her supervisor, the City Clerk, the City Attorney, the Mayor
or any other supervisor with whom the employee feels comfortable discussing the
matter. Employees are encouraged to make prompt reports of the incident to
ensure a timely response and for remedial measures to be implemented, if
necessary. However, all reports of sexual and nonsexual harassment will be
reviewed and investigated regardless of when the alleged misconduct occurred.
      (1)   All reports of sexual or nonsexual harassment will be reduced to
writing by the reporting employee or by the person receiving the report.
Employees may use the Complaint Form (HR Form 10) in Appendix A for this
purpose. The report will be signed by the complaining employee or the person
receiving the report. All reports will be kept confidential to the extent
feasible and appropriate under the circumstances. The City Clerk will inform
the Mayor of receipt of the complaint.
      (2)   All reports of sexual and nonsexual harassment will be promptly
investigated following the receipt of an incident report. The report will be
investigated by the Mayor and/or one or more members of the management staff
designated by the Mayor and the City Attorney. The results of the investigation
will be communicated to the complainant and to the alleged offender. Any
employee found to have engaged in misconduct constituting sexual or nonsexual
harassment will be disciplined up to and including dismissal. In addition, the
city may take other steps to correct and prevent future incidents from
occurring.
      (3)   If the investigation results in a finding that any form of
harassment has occurred in the city workplace, the Mayor will create a written
report and/or a written update of the action taken by the Mayor as a result of
the finding. If the investigation results in a finding that harassment did not
occur, the Mayor will create a written report of the decision.
      (4)   As provided under the protection against retaliation for city
employees policy in §
36.065, an employee making a report under this policy will not be discriminated
against or be subject to retaliation in any way for having made the report. If
an employee suffers any discrimination or retaliation for making a report, the
employee should immediately alert a member of management. Any person found to
have discriminated against or retaliated against an employee who makes a report
will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including dismissal.
   (E)   The city recognizes that the question of whether a particular course
of conduct constitutes sexual or nonsexual harassment requires a factual
determination. The city also recognizes that false accusations of sexual or
nonsexual harassment can have serious effects on innocent parties. If an
investigation results in a finding that a person who has accused another of
sexual or nonsexual harassment has maliciously or recklessly made a false
accusation, the accuser will be subject to disciplinary action.
   (F)   Training in sexual and nonsexual harassment will be provided by the
city.
   (G)   Nothing in this policy should be construed as eliminating any
employee’s rights under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended,
or under KRS Chapter 344 or as conferring enforceable legal rights beyond those
existing under applicable law.
§ 36.062 WORKPLACE VIOLENCE.
   (A)   The safety and security of all employees is important to the city.
Threats, abusive behavior or acts of violence against employees, citizens or
other individuals by anyone while performing job duties related to the city
will not be tolerated. These types of actions will lead to referral to
appropriate law enforcement agencies. City employees who exhibit this type of
behavior will be disciplined or discharged. The city may take any necessary
legal action to protect its employees and will make every effort to assist any
employee experiencing threats of violence.
   (B)   Any person who makes threats, exhibits threatening behavior or engages
in violent acts on city premises will be removed from the premises as quickly
as safety permits and will remain off city premises pending the outcome of an
investigation. Any employee who makes threats, exhibits threatening behavior or
engages in violent acts while in performance of his or her employment duties
will be immediately suspended pending the outcome of an investigation of the
incident. Following an investigation, the city will initiate an immediate and
appropriate response. This response may include, but is not limited to,
suspension and/or termination of any business relationship, reassignment of job
duties, suspension or termination of employment and/or criminal prosecution of
the person or persons involved.
   (C)   All employees are responsible for notifying city management personnel
of any threats that they witness, receive or that they are told another person
witnessed or received. Even without a specific threat, all employees should
report any behavior witnessed that they regard as potentially threatening,
violent or which could endanger the health or safety of an employee when the
behavior has been carried out on a city-controlled site, is connected to city
employment or city business. Employees are responsible for making this report
regardless of the relationship between the individual who initiated the
threatening behavior and the person or persons being threatened.
   (D)   Employees are encouraged to notify either their supervisor or the City
Clerk if an emergency protection order (EPO) or domestic violence order (DVO)
has been issued for their protection.
   (E)   (1)   The city will make every effort to assist an employee
experiencing threats of violence.
      (2)   Assistance may include:
         (a)   Confidential means for coming forward for help;
         (b)   Resource and referral information, e.g., employee assistance
program (EAP);
         (c)   Leave of absence consideration; and
         (d)   Special safety considerations at the workplace.
   (F)   The city understands the sensitivity of the information requested and
will respect the privacy of the reporting employee to the extent allowable by
law. The city will endeavor to maintain the anonymity of a reporting party to
the extent feasible for cooperation with appropriate law enforcement officials.
   (G)   Any employee who acts in good faith by reporting real or implied
violent behavior will not be
subjected to any form of retaliation or harassment.
   (H)   (1)   Only sworn law enforcement officers are required to carry
concealed deadly weapons in the course of their employment with the city.
      (2)   For all other employees, the following apply.
         (a)   Any other form of carrying a deadly weapon, as defined in
division (I)(1) below, is not prohibited; however, any other form of carrying a
deadly weapon, as defined in divisions (I)(2) through (I)(7) below, is
prohibited.
         (b)   An employee carrying a deadly weapon in compliance with the
city’s employee handbook while performing work for or while on duty for the
city does so as a voluntary act and not at the direction or request of the
city. Other than sworn law enforcement officers, no job descriptions or job
duties in the city require an employee to possess a deadly weapon.
         (c)   An employee that chooses to carry a deadly weapon in compliance
with the city’s employee handbook has the responsibility to know the law as to
where he or she can or cannot legally carry his or her deadly weapon. Some
locations including schools prohibit the carrying of deadly weapons by persons
other than sworn law enforcement. Failure to abide by lawful restrictions in
those locations, even while performing work for the city or while on duty for
the city may result in personal liability criminally and/or civilly.
         (d)   An employee that uses a deadly weapon may incur personal
liability and the city may or may not indemnify the employee for such use.
   (I)   DEADLY WEAPON will be defined as:
      (1)   Any weapon from which a shot readily capable of producing death or
other serious physical injury may be discharged;
      (2)   Any knife except an ordinary pocketknife or other knife routinely
used in the performance of city duties;
      (3)   Billy, nightstick or club;
      (4)   Blackjack or slapjack;
      (5)   Nunchaku karate sticks;
      (6)   Shuriken or death star; and
      (7)   Artificial knuckles made from metal, plastic or other hard
material.
§ 36.063 WORKPLACE SAFETY.
   (A)   The city’s first priority is to maintain a safe working environment
for its employees and the public. Job-related injuries, accidents or illnesses
must be immediately reported for the employee’s protection in accordance with
the city safety and accident policy.
   (B)   Each department will consider the need for adopting safety practices,
policies or procedures warranted by the hazards that department employees
encounter. Supervisors are encouraged to involve employees in this process.
   (C)   A copy of such practices, policies or procedures will be delivered and
explained in detail. Each department employee will then sign a receipt which
will be placed in the individual employee’s personnel file stating that they
have read and understand these rules. Supervisors will also explain to their
employees that a violation of these safety rules could lead to disciplinary
action up to and including termination of employment.
   (D)   Every employee must be safety-conscious and responsible for helping
the city achieve the goal of providing a safe workplace.
   (E)   Employees will immediately report any unsafe or hazardous conditions
to their supervisor or any supervisor they feel comfortable reporting such
information.
   (F)   Supervisors will immediately report any unsafe or hazardous condition
that has been reported to them or that the supervisor is aware of to the Mayor.
   (G)   Any employee or supervisor who does not report unsafe or hazardous
conditions is subject to disciplinary action.
   (H)   (1)   Employees are expected to use common sense and good judgment in
their work habits and to follow safe work practices. Supervisors will ensure
that safe work practices are utilized.
      (2)   Examples of safe work practices are as follows:
         (a)   Using the proper safety equipment when performing a work
assignment;
         (b)   Not operating equipment or machinery while using prescribed
medication without a doctor’s written approval;
         (c)   When working extended hours (see hours of operation and work
schedules policy within § 36.069);
         (d)   Under no circumstances should an employee operate any type of
machinery or equipment while under the influence of drugs or alcohol;
         (e)   Operating only equipment or machinery for which training or
orientation has been received;
         (f)   Warning coworkers of unsafe conditions or practices;
         (g)   Following all safety and operating rules posted on equipment and
machinery;
         (h)   Refraining from horseplay at all times;
         (i)   Wearing safety belts when operating city owned vehicles or
private owned vehicles when on city business; and
         (j)   Following Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
rules and guidelines. All employees are responsible for maintaining current
knowledge of periodic rule/regulation changes made by the issuing state and
federal safety agencies.
   (I)   Periodic training will be arranged when appropriate in the judgment of
the employee’s supervisor. Employees will be required to participate in all
required safety training programs offered by the city.
§ 36.064 REPORTING WORK-RELATED ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   Employees are required to immediately report any work-related
accidents, illnesses or injuries. The proper reporting of such matters is
critical to ensure that an employee receives all benefits to which he or she is
entitled under the State Workers’ Compensation Act.
   (B)   For the employee’s protection, job-related injuries, accidents or
illnesses must be reported the day that they occur unless extenuating
circumstances prevent the employee from reporting within that time frame.
   (C)   The employee must call the “company nurse” on the injury hotline at
855-339-1889.
   (D)   The employee’s supervisor, as well as the City Clerk, will be notified
of all accidents involving city employees and/or city equipment as soon as
possible but in no event later than the next workday. The city will follow the
Occupational Health and Safety (OSH) Injury and Illness Reporting in Kentucky
requirements found in Appendix A.
   (E)   Accidents involving either city owned vehicles or personal vehicles
being operated for city business will be reported to the Police Department for
investigation, and employees may be required to submit to drug and alcohol
testing pursuant to the drug- and alcohol-free workplace policy.
   (F)   The city places great importance in this policy. All employees are
obliged to comply. Any employee that is discovered to have been aware of a
serious accident and failed to report it will face appropriate disciplinary
consequences.
§ 36.065 PROTECTION AGAINST RETALIATION FOR CITY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The city strictly prohibits retaliation or discrimination against any
employee who reports a violation of the policies contained in this handbook, or
a violation of any applicable federal, state or local laws, or regulations to
the city’s supervisory staff, the Board of Ethics, law enforcement authorities
or other appropriate officials.
      (1)   No city employee will use or threaten to use his or her supervisory
authority or influence to discourage, restrain, suppress, dissuade, deter,
prevent, interfere with or coerce an employee from reporting any violation of
the policies contained in this handbook to his or her supervisor or any other
member of the city’s supervisory staff.
      (2)   No city employee will retaliate or discriminate against an employee
because he or she supports, aids or otherwise substantiates another employee
who reports a violation of the policies contained in this handbook to the Board
of Ethics.
      (3)   No city employee will retaliate or discriminate against another
employee because he or she reports a violation of the policies contained in
this handbook to the Board of Ethics after informing members of the city’s
supervisory staff without satisfactory resolution.
      (4)   The city strictly prohibits retaliation or discrimination against
any employee who reports a violation of any applicable federal, state or local
laws or regulations to the city’s supervisory staff, the Board of Ethics, law
enforcement authorities or other appropriate officials.
      (5)   The provisions of this policy in no way alter the at-will
employment status of city employees. This policy does not create any
contractual or other rights for employees and the city may alter, amend or
remove any policy contained in this handbook at any time.
   (B)   Any employee who receives an official request from an outside agency
for information related to the city will promptly inform his or her immediate
supervisor of the request. Any employee who receives a request from the media
for information related to the city will forward the request to the City Clerk
and will otherwise follow the media communications policy in §
36.068.
   (C)   Any city employee who makes a false report of a violation or discloses
information related to a report of a violation of city policies or the law with
reckless disregard for the truth will be subject to disciplinary action
including the possibility of immediate dismissal.
§ 36.066 DRUG- AND ALCOHOL-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   The city’s mission is to ensure that all public services are delivered
safely, efficiently and effectively. This mission is accomplished by
establishing a drug- and alcohol-free work environment and ensuring that the
workplace remains free from the effects of drugs and alcohol thereby promoting
the health and safety of employees and the general public. In keeping with this
mission, the city declares that the unlawful manufacture, distribution,
dispensing, possession or use of controlled substances or misuse of alcohol is
prohibited for all employees.
   (B)   All employees are expected to read and sign the Drug- and Alcohol-Free
Workplace Acknowledgment (HR Form 05) in Appendix A within 30 days of
employment or within 30 days of any amendment to the policy.
   (C)   This policy is intended to comply with all applicable federal and
state regulations governing workplace anti-drug and alcohol programs. The
United States Department of Transportation (USDOT) has also published 49 C.F.R.
part 40, as amended, that sets standards for the collection and testing of
urine and breath specimens. Under state law, the city has also chosen to follow
the requirements of 803 KAR 25:280 to become a certified drug-free workplace.
   (D)   The city and all commercial driver’s license (CDL) employees are
federally mandated to comply with the registration and reporting requirements
of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) Clearinghouse under
49 C.F.R. part 382. This includes the city’s obligation to perform
preemployment queries for all CDL applicants, perform annual queries for all
CDL employees and report certain violations or activity as required under 49
C.F.R. part 382.
      (1)   CDL employees will register with the FMCSA Clearinghouse website
and will provide the necessary consent for the city to perform clearinghouse
queries, including electronic authorization for all full queries. If an
employee fails to provide consent as required under this section, then the
employee is unable to perform safety-sensitive functions under federal law and
the employee will be removed from duty. The refusal to provide consent will
also be considered a violation under this policy and the employee may be
subject to disciplinary action including termination.
      (2)   Pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 382.705, the following will be reported to
the clearinghouse with any required documentation as outlined in the regulation
by the close of the third business day following the date on which the
information was obtained:
         (a)   An alcohol confirmation test result with an alcohol
concentration of 0.04 or greater;
         (b)   A negative return-to-duty test result;
         (c)   A refusal to take an alcohol test pursuant to 49 C.F.R. §
40.261;
         (d)   A refusal to take a drug test as determined in accordance with
49 C.F.R. § 40.191(a)(1) through (4), as well as (6)(dd) test refusal of this
policy. Note: Admissions to the collector of adulterating or substituting the
specimen are also reportable;
         (e)   A report that the driver has successfully completed all follow-
up tests as prescribed in the substance abuse professional (SAP) report in
accordance with 49 C.F.R. §§ 40.307 through 40.311; and
         (f)   The city’s report of actual knowledge, as defined under 49
C.F.R. § 382.107 and in division (F) below, of the following:
            1.   On-duty alcohol use pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 382.205;
            2.   Pre-duty alcohol use pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 382.207;
            3.   Alcohol use following an accident pursuant to 49 C.F.R. §
382.209; and
            4.   Controlled substance use pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 382.213.
      (3)   The information in (D)(2) above must include as applicable:
         (a)   Reason for the test;
         (b)   Driver’s name, date of birth, CDL number and state of issuance;
         (c)   Employer name, address and USDOT number;
         (d)   Date of the test;
         (e)   Date the result was reported; and
         (f)   Test result. The test result must be one of the following:
            1.   Negative (only required for return-to-duty tests administered
in accordance with KRS 382.309);
            2.   Positive; and
            3.   Refusal to take a test.
      (4)   For each report of a violation of 49 C.F.R. §§ 40.261(a)(1) or
40.191(a)(1), the employer must report the following information:
         (a)   Documentation, including, but not limited to, electronic mail or
other contemporaneous record of the time and date the driver was notified to
appear at a testing site; and the time, date and testing site location at which
the employee was directed to appear, or an affidavit, providing evidence of
such notification;
         (b)   Documentation, including, but not limited to, electronic mail,
other correspondence or an affidavit indicating the date the employee was
terminated or resigned, if applicable; and
         (c)   Documentation including a certificate of service or other
evidence, showing that the employer provided the employee with all
documentation reported under division (D)(2) above, if applicable.
      (5)   Employers must report the following violations by the close of the
third business day following the date on which the employer obtains actual
knowledge, as defined at KRS 382.107, of:
         (a)   On-duty alcohol use pursuant to KRS 382.205;
         (b)   Pre-duty alcohol use pursuant to KRS 382.207;
         (c)   Alcohol use following an accident pursuant to KRS 382.209; and
         (d)   Controlled substance use pursuant to KRS 382.213.
      (6)   For each violation in division (D)(5) above, the employer must
report the following information:
         (a)   Driver’s name, date of birth, CDL number and state of issuance;
         (b)   Employer name, address and USDOT number, if applicable;
         (c)   Date the employer obtained actual knowledge of the violation;
         (d)   Witnesses to the violation if any including contact information;
         (e)   Description of the violation;
         (f)   Evidence supporting each fact alleged in the description of the
violation required under division (D)(5) above which may include, but is not
limited to, affidavits, photographs, video or audio recordings, employee
statements (other than admissions pursuant to KRS 382.121), correspondence or
other documentation; and
         (g)   A certificate of service or other evidence showing that the
employer provided the employee with all information reported under division (D)
(2) above, if applicable.
   (E)   (1)   This policy is intended to apply whenever anyone is representing
or conducting business for the city. Accordingly, this policy applies during
all working hours, while on call, paid standby and while performing work on
behalf of the city while on or off city property. The policy applies to all
city employees with special provisions designated to those employees identified
as having responsibilities requiring a heightened safety-awareness level
(HSAL).
      (2)   Those “safety-sensitive” positions identified as requiring a
heightened safety-awareness level include, but may not be limited to:
         (a)   Police officers;
         (b)   Firefighters;
         (c)   Heavy equipment operators;
         (d)   Employees driving CDL-regulated vehicles; and
         (e)   Solid waste/sanitation drivers.
   (F)   For the purpose of this policy, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCIDENT. An occurrence associated with the operation of a vehicle or
equipment if as a result:
         (a)   A person dies;
         (b)   An individual suffers a bodily injury and immediately receives
medical treatment away from the scene of the accident;
         (c)   An employee receives a citation within eight hours of the
occurrence under state or local laws for a moving traffic violation arising
from the accident if the accident involved:
            1.   Bodily injury to any person who as a result of the injury
immediately receives medical treatment away from the scene of the accident; and
            2.   One or more motor vehicles incurring disabling damage as a
result of the accident requiring the motor vehicle to be transported away from
the scene by a tow truck or other motor vehicle.
         (d)   The employer could reasonably believe that employee’s drug or
alcohol use could have contributed to an incident.
      ACTUAL KNOWLEDGE. Defined by 49 C.F.R. § 382.107. ACTUAL KNOWLEDGE means
actual knowledge by an employer that a driver has used alcohol or controlled
substances based on the employer’s direct observation of the employee,
information provided by the driver’s previous employer(s), a traffic citation
for driving a commercial motor vehicle (CMV) while under the influence of
alcohol or controlled substances or an employee’s admission of alcohol or
controlled substance use except as provided in KRS 382.121. DIRECT OBSERVATION,
as used in this definition, means observation of alcohol or controlled
substances use and does not include observation of employee behavior or
physical characteristics sufficient to warrant reasonable suspicion testing
under KRS 382.307. As used in this section, TRAFFIC CITATION means a ticket,
complaint or other document charging driving a CMV while under the influence of
alcohol or controlled substances.
      ADULTERATED SPECIMEN. A specimen that contains a substance that is not
expected to be present in human urine or contains a substance expected to be
present but is at a concentration so high that it is not consistent with human
urine.
      ALCOHOL. The intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol or
other low molecular weight alcohols contained in any beverage, mixture,
mouthwash, candy, food preparation or medication.
      ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. Expressed in terms of grams of alcohol per 210
liters of breath as measured by an evidential breath-testing device or in blood
alcohol content (BAC) when required for post-accident testing.
      CANCELED TEST. A drug test that has been declared invalid by a medical
review officer. A CANCELED TEST is neither positive nor negative.
      CONSORTIUM. An entity which may involve varied pools of employers and
their employees established to provide cost-effective services to employees to
help the employers comply with the drug-free workplace program requirements.
      DESIGNATED EMPLOYER REPRESENTATIVE (DER). An employee authorized by the
employer to take immediate action to remove employees from safety-sensitive
duties and to make required decisions in testing. The DER also receives test
results and other communications for the employer consistent with the
requirements of 49 C.F.R. parts 40 and 382. Additionally, the DER and/or his or
her designee ensures compliance with the USDOT Clearinghouse requirements for
employees with CDLs. For purposes of this policy, the City Clerk is the DER.
      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (DOT). The department of the federal
government which includes the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG), Federal Transit
Administration (FTA), Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), Federal Highway
Administration (FHA), Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA),
Research and Special Programs and the Office of the Secretary of
Transportation.
      DILUTE SPECIMEN. A specimen with creatinine and specific gravity values
that are lower than expected for human urine.
      DISABLING DAMAGE. Damage which precludes departure of any vehicle from
the scene of the occurrence in its usual manner in daylight after simple
repairs. DISABLING DAMAGE includes damage to vehicles that could have been
operated but would have been further damaged if so operated. This does not
include damage which can be remedied temporarily at the scene of the occurrence
without special tools or parts, tire disablement without other damage even if
no spare tire is available or damage to headlights, taillights, turn signals,
horn, mirrors or windshield wipers that makes them inoperative.
      EMPLOYEE. Defined in KRS 342.640 as every person in the service of the
city under any contract of hire, express or implied, and every official or
officer of those entities, whether elected or appointed, while performing their
official duties; every person who is a member of a volunteer ambulance service,
fire or police department; and every person who is a regularly enrolled
volunteer member or trainee of an emergency management agency as established
under KRS Chapters 39A to 39E.
      EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (EAP). An established program providing:
         (a)   Professional assessment of employee personal concerns;
         (b)   Confidential and timely services to identify employee alcohol or
drug abuse;
         (c)   Referral of employees for appropriate diagnosis, treatment and
assistance regarding employee alcohol or substance abuse; and
         (d)   Follow-up services for employees who participate in a drug or
alcohol rehabilitation program and are recommended for monitoring after
returning to work.
      EVIDENTIARY BREATH-TESTING DEVICE (EBT). A device approved by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) for the evidential
testing of breath at the 0.02 and the 0.04 alcohol concentrations. Approved
devices are listed on the NHTSA-conforming products list.
      FEDERALLY REGULATED EMPLOYEES (FRE). Those designated in DOT regulations
as safety sensitive employees and include those regulated by the Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) (aviation), Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration (FMCSA) (commercial motor carriers), Pipeline and Hazardous
Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) (gas pipeline) and Federal Transit
Administration (FTA) (transit). These employees include anyone with a CDL or
mechanics who work on CDL vehicles.
      HEIGHTENED SAFETY-AWARENESS LEVEL (HSAL) (SAFETY-SENSITIVE) POSITIONS.
Those positions involving special, dangerous and skilled activities, and those
that would involve exceptional duty to community citizens in the area of public
safety.
      MEDICAL REVIEW OFFICER (MRO). A licensed physician (medical doctor or
doctor of osteopathy) responsible for receiving laboratory results generated by
the drug testing program who has knowledge of substance abuse disorders and has
appropriate medical training to interpret and evaluate an individual’s
confirmed positive test result, together with his or her medical history and
any other relevant biomedical information.
      NEGATIVE DILUTE. A drug test result which is negative for the five drug/
drug metabolites but has a specific gravity value lower than expected for human
urine.
      NEGATIVE TEST RESULT FOR A DRUG TEST. A verified presence of the
identified drug or its metabolite below the minimum levels specified in 49
C.F.R. part 40, as amended. An alcohol concentration of less than 0.02 BAC is a
negative test result.
      NON-NEGATIVE TEST RESULT. A test result found to be adulterated,
substituted, invalid or positive for drug/drug metabolites.
      PERFORMING A SAFETY-SENSITIVE FUNCTION. Includes any period in which an
employee is actually performing, ready to perform or immediately available to
perform such functions.
      POSITIVE TEST RESULT FOR A DRUG TEST. A verified presence of the
identified drug or its metabolite at or above the minimum levels specified in
49 C.F.R. part 40, as amended. In addition, the claimed use of cannabidiol
(CBD) products will not be considered a medical excuse for a positive marijuana
test. A POSITIVE ALCOHOL TEST RESULT means a confirmed alcohol concentration of
0.04 BAC or greater.
      PROHIBITED DRUG. Cannabinoids/tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), cocaine,
opiates, amphetamines or phencyclidine at levels above the minimum thresholds
specified in 49 C.F.R. part 40, as amended. In addition, the city tests for
benzodiazepines, propoxyphene, methaqualone, methadone, barbiturates, synthetic
narcotics, illicit substances and volatile substances, as defined by KRS
217.900, KRS 218A.010, 803 KAR 25:280 and 902 KAR 55, as amended.
      REHABILITATION PROGRAM. A service provider that provides confidential,
timely and expert identification, assessment, treatment and resolution of
employee drug or alcohol abuse, and may include inpatient or outpatient
programs as well as the EAP.
      SAFETY-SENSITIVE FUNCTIONS. Include:
         (a)   The operation of a vehicle by an employee when the operation of
the vehicle requires the driver to hold a commercial driver’s license (CDL);
         (b)   Maintaining a CDL vehicle or equipment used in repair of CDL
vehicles; and
         (c)   The essential functions of actions performed by employees are
considered to establish HSAL positions.
      SUBSTANCE. Drugs or alcohol.
      SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROFESSIONAL (SAP). A licensed physician (medical doctor
or doctor of osteopathy), licensed or certified psychologist, social worker,
employee assistance professional or addiction counselor (certified by the
National Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors Certification
Commission or by the International Certification Reciprocity Consortium/Alcohol
and other Drug Abuse) with knowledge of and clinical experience in the
diagnosis and treatment of drug- and alcohol-related disorders.
      SUBSTITUTED SPECIMEN. A specimen with creatinine and specific gravity
value that is so diminished that it is not consistent with normal human urine.
      TEST REFUSAL. When an employee does any of the following:
         (a)   Fails to appear for any drug or alcohol test (except a
preemployment test) within a reasonable time as determined by the employer
consistent with any applicable DOT agency regulations after being directed to
do so by the employer;
         (b)   Fails to remain at the testing site prior to the commencement of
the test and until the testing process is complete provided that an employee
who leaves the testing site before the testing process commences for a
preemployment test is not deemed to have refused to test;
         (c)   Fails to provide a urine, saliva/breath or blood specimen for
any drug or alcohol test required by regulations or this policy;
         (d)   Fails to permit the observation or monitoring of the employee’s
provision of a specimen in the case of a directly observed or monitored
collection in a drug test;
         (e)   Fails to provide a sufficient amount of urine or breath when
directed and it has been determined through a required medical evaluation that
there was no adequate medical explanation for the failure;
         (f)   Fails or declines to take an additional drug or alcohol test the
employer or collector has directed the employee to take;
         (g)   Fails to undergo a medical examination or evaluation as directed
by the MRO as part of the verification process or as directed by the DER. In
the case of a pre employment drug test, the employee is deemed to have refused
to test on this basis only if the preemployment test is conducted following a
contingent offer of employment. If there was no contingent offer of employment,
the MRO will cancel the test; and
         (h)   Fails to cooperate with any part of the testing process, e.g.,
refuses to empty pockets when directed by the collector, behaves in a
confrontational way that disrupts the collection process and/or fails to wash
hands after being directed to do so by the collector.
      VERIFIED NEGATIVE TEST. A drug test result reviewed by a MRO and
determined to have no evidence of prohibited drug use above the minimum cutoff
levels established by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).
      VERIFIED POSITIVE TEST. A drug test result reviewed by a MRO and
determined to have evidence of prohibited drug use above the minimum cutoff
levels specified in 49 C.F.R. part 40, as revised.
      VALIDITY TESTING. The evaluation of the specimen to determine if it is
consistent with normal human urine. The purpose of validity testing is to
determine whether certain adulterants or foreign substances were added to the
urine, if the urine was diluted or if the specimen was substituted.
   (G)   Education and training requirements for this policy includes the
following.
      (1)   Every employee will receive a copy of this policy and will have
ready access to the corresponding federal and state regulations, including 803
KAR Part 25 and 49 C.F.R. parts 40 and 382, as amended. In addition, all
covered employees will undergo a minimum of 60 minutes of training on the signs
and symptoms of drug use, including the effects and consequences of drug use on
personal health, safety and the work environment. The training also includes
manifestations and behavioral cues that may indicate prohibited drug use.
      (2)   Thereafter, all employees will receive at least 30 minutes of
refresher training which will include the dangers of alcohol and drug abuse in
the workplace; the employer’s policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace; the
effects of alcohol and drug use on an individual’s health, work and personal
life; the disease of alcohol or drug addiction; signs and symptoms of an
alcohol or drug problem; alcohol and drug testing; the role of coworkers and
supervisors in addressing alcohol or drug abuse; available drug counseling,
rehabilitation and referrals to an EAP; and penalties for violation of the
Drug- and Alcohol-Free Workplace Policy.
      (3)   All supervisors will receive, in addition to the training specified
in division (G)(2) above, at least 30 minutes each year of alcohol and drug
abuse education and awareness training which will include, at a minimum,
information on recognizing the signs of employee alcohol or drug abuse, how to
document signs of employee alcohol or drug abuse, how to refer employees to an
EAP or other alcohol or drug abuse treatment programs, legal and practical
aspects of reasonable suspicion testing for the presence of drugs and alcohol
and other issues regarding drug abuse that the trainer or the city deem
necessary to include.
      (4)   The employer will annually verify that the frequency and duration
of each employee and supervisor training session meets the requirements of this
section and that all employees have participated in the required alcohol and
drug abuse education and awareness training program.
   (H)   Prohibited substances addressed by this policy include the following:
      (1)   Illegally used controlled substance or drugs under the Drug-Free
Workplace Act of 1988. Any drug or any substance identified in Schedule I
through V of § 202 of the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. § 812), as
further defined by 21 C.F.R. parts 1300.11 through 1300.15, and as defined by
803 KAR 25:280 is prohibited at all times in the workplace unless a legal
prescription has been written for the substance. This includes, but is not
limited to, marijuana, amphetamines, opiates, phencyclidine (PCP) and cocaine,
as well as any drug not approved for medical use by the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration (USDEA) or the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (USFDA).
Illegal use includes use of any illegal drug, misuse of legally prescribed
drugs and use of illegally obtained prescription drugs such as oxycodone,
oxymorphone, hydrocodone and hydromorphone;
      (2)   Federal drug testing regulations, 49 C.F.R. part 40, require that
all covered employees be tested for marijuana metabolites/THC (this includes
any CBD products containing THC at or above the required threshold), cocaine,
amphetamines, opiates and phencyclidine. Illegal use of these five drugs is
prohibited at all times, and thus, covered employees may be tested for these
drugs anytime that they are on duty;
      (3)   The State Certified Drug-Free Workplace testing regulations (803
KAR 25:280) require that all covered employees be tested for amphetamines,
cannabinoids (THC, which includes any CBD products containing THC at or above
the required threshold), cocaine, opiates, phencyclidine (PCP),
benzodiazepines, propoxyphene, methaqualone, methadone, barbiturates and
synthetic narcotics;
      (4)   The appropriate use of legally prescribed drugs and nonprescription
medications is not prohibited. However, any HSAL employee taking any legal
substance which carries a warning label indicating that mental functioning,
motor skills or judgment may be adversely affected must report this information
to a supervisor, and the employee is required to provide a written release from
his or her doctor or pharmacist indicating that the employee can perform his or
her safety-sensitive functions; and
      (5)   The use of beverages containing alcohol (including any mouthwash,
medication, food or candy) or any other substances such that alcohol is present
in the body while performing safety-sensitive job functions is prohibited.
   (I)   Types of prohibited conduct include the following.
      (1)   All employees are prohibited from reporting for duty or remaining
on duty any time there is a quantifiable presence of a prohibited drug in the
body above the minimum thresholds defined in 49 C.F.R. part 40 or any other
state or federal laws, as amended.
      (2)   No employee will consume alcohol while at work or while on call. If
an on-call employee has consumed alcohol, he or she must acknowledge the use of
alcohol at the time that he or she is called to report for duty. The employee
will subsequently be relieved of his or her on-call responsibilities and be
subject to discipline.
      (3)   The city will not permit any employee to perform any work-related
activity especially safety-sensitive functions if it has actual knowledge that
the employee is using alcohol.
      (4)   No employee will report to work or remain on duty while having an
alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater regardless of when the alcohol was
consumed.
      (5)   No employee will consume alcohol for eight hours following
involvement in an accident or until her or she submits to the post-accident
drug/alcohol test, whichever occurs first.
      (6)   No employee will consume alcohol within four hours prior to the
performance of any job functions.
      (7)   The city, under its own authority, also prohibits the consumption
of alcohol at all times that the employee is on duty or anytime the employee is
in uniform.
      (8)   Consistent with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 and State
Certified Drug-Free Workplace regulations, all employees are prohibited from
engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or
use of prohibited substances in the workplace while in uniform or while on city
business.
   (J)   Consistent with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1998, all employees are
required to notify the city management of any criminal drug statute conviction
for a violation occurring in the workplace within five days after such
conviction. Failure to comply with this provision will result in termination.
   (K)   Testing requirements for this policy include the following.
      (1)   Analytical urine drug testing and breath testing for alcohol will
be conducted as required by 49 C.F.R. part 40, 803 KAR 25:280 and any other
statutes, as amended. All employees will be subject to testing prior to
employment for reasonable suspicion, post-accident and random, if applicable.
All employees who have tested positive for drugs or alcohol on a random test,
reasonable suspicion test or post-accident test will be tested prior to
returning to duty after completion of the SAP’s recommended treatment program
and subsequent release to duty. Follow-up testing following the return-to-duty
will be conducted as the law requires and/or at the discretion of the SAP.
      (2)   All employees will be subject to blood draw for post-accident drug
and alcohol testing as a condition of ongoing employment with the city. Any
employee who refuses to comply with a request for testing will be removed from
duty and subject to discipline as defined in this policy. Any employee who is
suspected of providing false information in connection with a drug test or who
is suspected of falsifying test results through tampering, contamination,
adulteration or substitution will be required to undergo an observed
collection. Verification of the above-listed actions will be considered a test
refusal resulting in the employee’s removal from duty and discipline, as
defined in this policy.
      (3)   A drug or alcohol test can be performed any time an employee is on
duty.
   (L)   Testing for drugs and alcohol will be conducted in a manner to assure
a high degree of accuracy and reliability using techniques, equipment and
laboratory facilities which have been approved by the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
(SAMHSA). All testing will be conducted consistent with the procedures set
forth in 49 C.F.R. part 40, as well as 803 KAR 25:280, and any other statutes,
as amended. The procedures will be performed in a private and confidential
manner and every effort will be made to protect the employee, the integrity of
the drug testing procedure and the validity of the test result.
   (M)   Preemployment testing will be done as follows.
      (1)   All applicants will undergo urine drug testing and breath alcohol
testing within 48 hours after a conditional offer of employment is made.
      (2)   An applicant will not be hired into a position unless the applicant
takes a drug test with verified negative results and an alcohol test with a BAC
below 0.02.
      (3)   An employee will not be placed into a position until the employee
takes a drug test with verified negative results and an alcohol test with a BAC
below 0.02.
      (4)   If an applicant fails a preemployment drug or alcohol test, tampers
with or attempts to tamper with a urine specimen in any manner, the conditional
offer of employment will be rescinded. Failure of a preemployment drug and/or
alcohol test will disqualify an applicant for employment for a period of at
least one year. Evidence of the absence of drug dependency from an SAP that
meets with 49 C.F.R. part 40, as amended, and a negative preemployment drug
test and an alcohol test with a BAC below 0.02 will be required prior to
further consideration for employment. The cost for the assessment and any
subsequent treatment will be the sole responsibility of the applicant.
      (5)   When an employee being placed into a position submits a drug test
with a verified positive result, or an alcohol test with a BAC above 0.02, the
employee will be subject to disciplinary action.
      (6)   If a preemployment test is canceled, the city will require the
applicant to take and pass another preemployment drug test.
      (7)   Applicants for DOT positions are required to report previous DOT
covered employer drug and alcohol test results. Failure to do so will result in
the employment offer being rescinded.
   (N)   Reasonable suspicion testing will be conducted as follows.
      (1)   All employees and volunteers will be subject to a reasonable
suspicion drug and/or alcohol test when there are reasons to believe that drug
or alcohol use is impacting job performance and safety. REASONABLE SUSPICION
will mean that there is objective evidence, based upon specific,
contemporaneous, articulable observations of the employee’s appearance,
behavior, speech or body odor that are consistent with possible drug use and/or
alcohol misuse. Reasonable suspicion referrals must be made by one supervisor
who is trained to detect the signs and symptoms of drug and alcohol use and who
reasonably concludes that an employee may be adversely affected or impaired in
his or her work performance due to possible prohibited substance abuse or
alcohol misuse. A reasonable suspicion drug test can be performed any time the
employee or volunteer is on duty.
      (2)   The DER or his or her designee will be notified of any indication
of reasonable suspicion. Both the observing supervisor and the DER or his or
her representative (if available) will review the policies and procedures
herein, and if necessary, make arrangements with a testing facility of the
city’s choosing to conduct reasonable suspicion drug and/or alcohol testing as
soon as possible. If the DER or his or her representative is not available, the
observing supervisor will obtain the assistance of another city supervisor or
other credible and reliable source. He or she will complete the Reasonable
Suspicion Observation Form and forward it to the DER. If, after completing the
form, it is determined that there is in fact reasonable suspicion that the
employee is under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol, the observing
supervisor or his or her designee will notify the employee and accompany him or
her to the testing site. Supervisors should avoid placing themselves and/or
others in a situation which might endanger the physical safety of those
present. The Reasonable Suspicion Observation Form will be attached to the
forms reporting the test results.
      (3)   When a reasonable suspicion test is ordered, the employee must
immediately submit to testing. The observing supervisor and/or designee will
remain at the testing site with the employee being tested until testing is
completed. Any employee who is tested for reasonable suspicion will be placed
on administrative leave with pay until the results of the test are known. After
submitting to the drug/alcohol test, the employee may not return to work until
the results of the test are known and only then if the results are negative.
Only the DER may order a reasonable suspicion test.
      (4)   An employee who refuses an instruction to submit to a drug/alcohol
test will not be permitted to finish his or her shift and will immediately be
placed on administrative leave pending disciplinary action.
   (O)   Post-accident testing will be conducted as follows.
      (1)   Employees are subject to blood drug and alcohol testing when needed
to evaluate the root cause of a workplace accident that harmed or could have
harmed employees, where the employee’s performance likely contributed to the
accident, the employer has reasonable suspicion to believe that drugs or
alcohol may have contributed or as required under state or federal laws.
Testing is not limited to only the injured employee(s).
      (2)   Circumstances that constitute probable belief that an employee’s
performance likely contributed to the accident will be presumed to arise in any
instance involving a work related accident or injury involving any or all of
the following:
         (a)   A human fatality;
         (b)   Bodily injury with immediate medical treatment away from the
scene where a citation is issued to the driver or the driver is found
responsible for the accident;
         (c)   Any disabling damage to a vehicle where a citation is issued to
the driver or the driver is found responsible for the accident. DISABLING
DAMAGE is defined as damage that precludes departure of any vehicle from the
scene of the occurrence in its usual manner after simple repairs. Disabling
damage also includes damage to vehicles that could have been operated but would
have been further damaged if so operated; and
         (d)   A safety-sensitive employee or position who is involved in
safety-sensitive activities during the occurrence of the accident and who
cannot be discounted as a contributing factor to the accident.
      (3)   Any city employee when there is a need to evaluate the root cause
of a workplace accident that could have harmed employees and there is
reasonable suspicion to believe that the use of drugs or alcohol by the
employee could have contributed to the accident. (See the Reasonable Suspicion
Observation Form.) Due to varying types of accident causes, not all accidents
will require post-accident testing. Exceptions for requiring post-accident drug
and alcohol testing will include, but may not be limited to, the following
types of accidents or injuries:
         (a)   Injuries whose onset is cumulative or gradual, such as carpal
tunnel syndrome, progressive hearing loss, mental disorders, dermatitis,
respiratory diseases, skin disorders and the like;
         (b)   Injuries where the employee can be completely discounted as the
contributing factor, e.g., injuries caused by a third party or some other
uncontrollable force or event, such as weather, insects and the like; and
         (c)   Injuries where the employee can be completely discounted as the
major contributing factor or those injuries occurring during physical fitness
or a training event in which the employee did everything within reason to avoid
the injury or accident, i.e., was performing training as instructed.
      (4)   Post-accident investigations must take place within two hours
following the accident.
      (5)   As soon as practicable following an accident, the investigating
supervisor will notify the employee operating the vehicle or equipment and all
other employees whose performance could have contributed to the accident of the
need for the blood test. All employees whose conduct could have contributed to
the accident will be subject to testing, not only the employee who reported an
injury. The DER along with the supervisor will make the determination using the
best information available at the time of the decision. (See Post Accident
Documentation Summary and Checklist.) Under no circumstances will the employee
be allowed to drive himself or herself to the testing facility.
      (6)   Pursuant to KRS 342.610(4), all post-accident testing will be done
by blood draw.
      (7)   The appropriate supervisor will ensure that an employee required to
be tested under this section is tested as soon as practicable but no longer
than eight hours following the accident for alcohol and within 32 hours for
drugs.
         (a)   If a blood alcohol test is not performed within two hours of the
accident, the supervisor will document the reason(s) for the delay.
         (b)   If the alcohol test is not conducted within eight hours,
attempts to conduct the alcohol test must cease and the reasons for the failure
to test documented.
         (c)   If the drug test is not conducted within 32 hours, attempts to
conduct the drug test must cease and the reasons for the failure to test
documented.
      (8)   Any employee involved in an accident must refrain from alcohol use
for eight hours following the accident or until they undergo a post-accident
blood alcohol test.
      (9)   An employee who is subject to post-accident testing who fails to
remain readily available for such testing including notifying a supervisor of
his or her location if he or she leaves the scene of the accident prior to
submission to such test may be deemed to have refused to submit to testing.
      (10)   Nothing in this section will be construed to require the delay of
necessary medical attention for the injured following an accident, to prohibit
an employee from leaving the scene of an accident for the period necessary to
obtain assistance in responding to the accident or to obtain necessary
emergency medical care.
      (11)   In the rare event that the city is unable to perform a drug and
alcohol test, e.g., the employee is unconscious or the employee is detained by
law enforcement agency, the city may use drug and alcohol post-accident test
results administered by local law enforcement officials in lieu of the test.
The local law enforcement officials must have independent authority for the
test, and the employer must obtain the results in conformance with local law.
      (12)   The city reserves the right to test all employees whose conduct
may have contributed to the accident.
      (13)   An employee involved in an accident while on an out-of-town
assignment will notify his or her supervisor as soon as possible but no later
than two hours after the accident occurred. The supervisor will notify the DER
to discuss possible drug/alcohol testing requirements.
   (P)   Random testing will be conducted as follows.
      (1)   All employees in HSAL, FRE and DOT positions will be subjected to
random unannounced testing. The selection of employees will be made by a
scientifically valid method of randomly generating an employee identifier from
the appropriate pool of safety-sensitive employees.
      (2)   The dates for administering unannounced testing of randomly
selected employees will be spread reasonably throughout the calendar year.
      (3)   Employees in HSAL positions other than those classified as FRE will
have random alcohol testing done at a rate of at least 10% annually and drug
testing at a rate of at least 20% annually.
      (4)   The number of FRE employees randomly selected for drug/alcohol
testing during the calendar year will not be less than the percentage rates
established by federal regulations for those safety-sensitive employees subject
to random testing by federal regulations.
      (5)   All employees in FRE positions will be selected from a pool that is
separate from the random selection pool for other non-federally regulated HSAL
positions.
      (6)   Each covered employee will be in a pool from which the random
selection is made. Each covered employee in the pool will have an equal chance
of selection each time the selections are made. Employees will remain in the
pool and be subject to selection regardless of whether the employee has been
previously tested. There is no discretion on the part of management in the
selection and notification of the individuals who are to be tested.
      (7)   Random tests can be conducted at any time during an employee’s
shift.
      (8)   Employees are required to immediately proceed to the collection
site upon notification of their random selection.
   (Q)   When there are no specific, contemporaneous, articulable objective
facts that indicate current drug or alcohol use but the employee (who is not
already a participant in a treatment program) admits the abuse of alcohol or
other substances to a supervisor in his or her chain of command, the employee
will be referred to the SAP for an assessment. The city will place the employee
on administrative leave. Testing in this circumstance would be performed under
the direct authority of the DER. Since the employee self-referred to
management, testing under this circumstance would not be considered a violation
of this policy or a positive test result under federal authority. However, self
referral does not exempt the employee from testing under federal authority as
specified in this policy.
   (R)   Refusal to submit to a drug/alcohol test will be considered a positive
test result and a direct act of insubordination and will result in termination.
   (S)   Consequences of a positive alcohol or drug test include the following.
      (1)   As soon as practicable after receiving notice of a verified
positive drug test result, a confirmed alcohol test result or a test refusal,
the DER will contact the employee’s supervisor to have the employee removed
from the workplace.
      (2)   The employee will be referred to an SAP/EAP for an assessment. The
SAP/EAP will evaluate each employee to determine what assistance if any the
employee needs in resolving problems associated with prohibited drug use or
alcohol misuse.
      (3)   A positive drug and/or alcohol test will also result in
disciplinary action as specified herein.
      (4)   For employees with a CDL, positive test results and other
violations will be reported to the DOT Clearinghouse in accordance with 49
C.F.R. parts 40 and 382.
      (5)   For the first instance of a verified positive test from a sample
submitted as the result of a random test, reasonable suspicion test, return-to-
duty test, post-accident test or follow-up drug/alcohol test (0.04 BAC or
greater), disciplinary action against the employee will include the following.
         (a)   Mandatory referral to an SAP/EAP for assessment, formulation of
a treatment plan and execution of a return-to-work agreement. Failure to
execute or remain compliant with the return-to-work agreement will result in
termination of employment.
         (b)   COMPLIANCE WITH THE RETURN-TO-WORK AGREEMENT means that the
employee has submitted to a drug/alcohol test immediately prior to returning to
work; the result of that test is negative; in the judgment of the SAP/EAP the
employee is cooperating with their SAP/EAP-recommended treatment program; and
the employee has agreed to periodic unannounced follow-up testing.
         (c)   Refusal to submit to a periodic unannounced follow-up drug/
alcohol test will be considered a direct act of insubordination and will result
in termination.
         (d)   A periodic unannounced follow-up drug/alcohol test which results
in a verified positive will result in termination from employment.
      (6)   The second instance of a verified positive drug or alcohol (0.04
BAC or greater) test result,
including a sample submitted under the random test, reasonable suspicion test,
return-to duty test, post-accident test or follow-up drug/alcohol test
provisions herein, will result in termination from employment.
      (7)   A confirmed alcohol test result of 0.02 to 0.039 BAC will result in
the removal of the employee from duty for eight hours or the remainder of the
workday, whichever is longer. The employee will not be allowed to return to
duty for his or her next shift until he or she submits to an alcohol test with
a result of less than 0.02 BAC. If the employee has an alcohol test result of
0.02 to 0.039 two or more times within a six-month period, the employee will be
removed from duty and referred to the SAP/EAP for assessment and treatment
consistent with this policy.
      (8)   The cost of any treatment or rehabilitation services will be paid
directly by the employee or his or her insurance provider. The employee will be
permitted to take accrued sick leave or administrative leave to participate in
the SAP/EAP-prescribed treatment program. If the employee has insufficient
accrued leave, the employee will be placed on leave without pay until the SAP/
EAP has determined that the employee has successfully completed the required
treatment program and releases them to return to duty.
   (T)   Return-to-duty testing will be done as follows.
      (1)   All employees who previously tested positive on a drug or alcohol
test or refused a test must test negative for drugs, alcohol (negative being
below 0.02 BAC) or both and be evaluated and released by the SAP/ EAP before
returning to work.
      (2)   For an initial positive drug test, a return-to-duty drug test is
required and an alcohol test is allowed. For an initial positive alcohol test,
a return-to-duty alcohol test is required and a drug test is allowed.
      (3)   Following the initial assessment, the SAP/EAP will recommend a
course of rehabilitation unique to the individual. The SAP/EAP will recommend
the return-to-duty test only when the employee has successfully completed the
treatment requirement and is known to be drug- and alcohol-free and there are
no undue concerns for public safety.
   (U)   Employees will be required to undergo frequent unannounced drug and
alcohol follow-up testing upon return to duty. The follow-up testing will be
performed for a period of one to five years after the successful completion of
treatment with a minimum of six tests to be performed the first year. The
frequency and duration of the follow-up tests (beyond the minimums) will be
determined by the involved SAP/EAP reflecting their assessment of the
employee’s unique situation and recovery progress. Follow-up testing should be
frequent enough to deter and/or detect a relapse. Follow-up testing is separate
and in addition to the random testing, post-accident testing, reasonable
suspicion testing and return-to-duty testing.
   (V)   Employee assistance program (EAP) information includes the following.
      (1)   Alcoholism and controlled substance addiction are recognized as
diseases responsive to proper treatment. The city’s health insurance plan
through Anthem contains a level of care available for substance abuse treatment
through an EAP provided for employees as part of their health care coverage.
The EAP can be reached by calling 800-865-1044.
      (2)   All employees of the city are strongly encouraged to voluntarily
contact the EAP if he or she believes he or she or an immediate family member
might have a problem with drug or alcohol abuse. An employee who feels that he
or she has developed an addiction or dependence on alcohol or drugs may be
entitled to other benefits in addition to the EAP herein described. The
decision to seek such benefits or not is the sole responsibility of the
employee. All information concerning the use of the medical insurance plan for
this purpose will be treated as confidential medical information. Employees who
seek treatment or counseling for substance abuse problems may be eligible for
leave pursuant to the city’s leave policies.
      (3)   If an employee has been identified by an SAP as needing assistance
in resolving problems associated with alcohol or controlled substances, the
employee will be subject to follow-up testing as prescribed elsewhere in this
policy. The SAP will be either a licensed physician, certified psychologist,
social worker, employee assistance professional or addiction counselor.
      (4)   Employees who voluntarily report a substance abuse problem prior to
being required to take a controlled substance or alcohol test, as defined in
this policy, will not be subject to disciplinary action if they voluntarily and
conscientiously seek substance abuse assistance and agree to a treatment plan.
However, such an employee must understand that if the problem is not corrected
and satisfactory job performance is not maintained, he or she will be subject
to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment. Failure
to seek such assistance or to abide by the terms of the treatment plan will be
grounds for termination. Upon voluntarily reporting a substance abuse problem,
the employee will be required to sign a return-to-work agreement that will
further define conditions of continued employment.
      (5)   The city’s EAP provides services to employees regardless of race,
color, religion, national origin, disability, sex, age or any other state or
federal-protected class.
   (W)   The city is dedicated to assuring fair and equitable application of
this drug- and alcohol-free workplace policy. Therefore, supervisors are
required to use and apply all aspects of this policy in an unbiased and
impartial manner. Any supervisor who knowingly disregards the requirements of
this policy or who is found to deliberately misuse the policy towards
subordinates will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including
termination.
   (X)   Confidentiality of drug testing procedures and records are as follows.
      (1)   Drug/alcohol testing records will be maintained by the City Clerk
and except as provided below or by law, the results of any drug/alcohol test
will not be disclosed without express written consent of the tested employee.
      (2)   The employee, upon written request, is entitled to obtain copies of
any records pertaining to his or her use of prohibited drugs or misuse of
alcohol, including any drug or alcohol testing records. Employees have the
right to gain access to any pertinent records such as equipment calibration
records and records of laboratory certifications. Employees may not have access
to SAP referrals and follow-up testing plans.
      (3)   Records of a verified positive drug/alcohol test result will be
released to the department director and personnel manager on a need-to-know
basis.
      (4)   Records will be released to a subsequent employer only upon receipt
of a written request from the employee.
      (5)   Records of an employee’s drug/alcohol tests will be released to the
adjudicator in a grievance, lawsuit or other proceeding initiated by or on
behalf of the tested individual arising from the results of the drug/alcohol
test. The records will be released to the decision maker in the proceeding. The
information will only be released with the binding stipulation from the
decision maker to make it available only to parties in the proceeding.
      (6)   Records will be released to the DOT or any DOT agency with
regulatory authority over the employer or any of its employees.
      (7)   If requested, records will be released by a federal, state or local
safety agency with regulatory authority over the city or the employee.
      (8)   If a party seeks a court order to release a specimen or part of a
specimen, contrary to any provision of C.F.R. part 40, as amended, necessary
legal steps to contest the issuance of the order will be taken.
   (Y)   Any questions regarding this policy or any other aspect of the
substance abuse policy should be directed to the DER.
§ 36.067 FRATERNIZATION.
   (A)   While the city encourages amicable relationships between employees, it
recognizes that involvement in a romantic relationship may compromise or create
a perception that compromises an employee’s ability to perform his or her job.
Any involvement of a romantic nature between an employee and his or her
supervisor is prohibited. Violation of this policy will lead to corrective
action up to and including termination of the individuals involved.
   (B)   Any concerns an employee has in a dating relationship with a coworker
may be brought to the attention of the Mayor or any supervisor in which the
employee feels comfortable. The supervisor and employee should follow the
guidance in the sexual and nonsexual harassment policy within §
36.061 and/or the protection against retaliation for city employees within §
36.065. In addition, employees may use the city provided EAP for any
relationship issues.
§ 36.068 MEDIA COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor serves as the chief media spokesperson for the city. All
media requests will be directed to the Mayor who is responsible for determining
the city staff person most appropriate to make a response. Under certain
circumstances, staff members may be directed to respond to a media request when
matters touch upon their special areas of expertise. Any employee directly
contacted or approached by the media for comments on issues related to the city
will contact the Mayor prior to making a response.
   (B)   To guarantee quality and appropriate formatting, all city
communications will originate from the Mayor.
   (C)   To guarantee consistent quality and branding, all city publications
will originate or be approved by the Mayor.
§ 36.069 HOURS OF OPERATION AND WORK SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Normal office hours are Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. until 4:00
p.m. Office hours may be modified due to evening meetings and other similar
functions or when weather or other circumstances require.
   (B)   The work schedule of the individual employee will be established by
the employee’s supervisor in a manner that is consistent with the needs of the
city. The work schedule may be modified on a temporary basis when necessitated
by workload or other work-related factors. A supervisor that establishes a
permanent work schedule for an employee deviating significantly from normal
department hours will provide notification and details regarding the modified
work schedule to the City Clerk. The City Clerk will then notify the Mayor.
   (C)   According to the OSH guidelines where extended work shifts are
unavoidable, employers should make efforts whenever feasible to give affected
workers time for rest and recovery including extra breaks for extended shifts
of more than eight hours. The city expects employees to work eight hour shifts;
however, in severe emergencies, such as snow or water main breaks, employees
sometimes must work in excess of eight-hour shifts. Because of safety concerns,
no operator will work more than a 16-hour shift in any 24-hour period.
Operators will take 15-minute breaks every two hours with a half-hour meal
break after four hours. The supervisor should use good judgment in allowing
employees to be off after an extended work shift due to emergency situations.
If the supervisor has a question on how to handle an extended work shift due to
emergency situations, he or she should contact the Mayor.
§ 36.070 TARDINESS.
   All employees are expected to arrive at their designated workspace prior to
the start of their work shift. An employee that arrives after the appointed
time is considered tardy. Employees who are tardy two times or less within a
30-day period will be counseled by their supervisor. Employees who are tardy
more than two times within a 30-day period will be subject to the disciplinary
policy.
§ 36.071 MEALS AND REST PERIODS.
   (A)   Unless other arrangements are made with the employee’s supervisor, all
employees are expected to take a paid lunch period of 30 minutes each workday
which will occur no sooner than three hours after the employee begins his or
her work shift and no later than five hours after the employee begins his or
her work shift. However, an employee and his or her supervisor may agree to
make a reasonable alternative schedule for a meal period on a temporary basis
and any such change should be noted in writing.
   (B)   Sworn police officers and dispatchers will remain on duty subject to
call during meal breaks. All other employees generally are not on call during
meal breaks unless directed otherwise by a supervisor.
   (C)   Employees are encouraged to schedule personal breaks as workflow
allows. The total time taken for personal breaks should not exceed 15 minutes
during each four hours worked. No reduction in compensation will be made for
time spent on personal breaks taken consistent with this policy for either
exempt or nonexempt employees.
   (D)   For up to one year after a child’s birth, any employee who is
breastfeeding her child will be provided two reasonable break times
(approximately 20 minutes) to express breast milk for her baby. This time will
be paid but is not in addition to the breaks provided in division (B) above. If
an employee needs more than 20 minutes, that time will be allowed but it will
not be paid. The city will provide a room which is separate from the bathrooms,
is shielded from view by the public and coworkers and is cleaned and sanitized
regularly. Employees storing milk in the refrigerator assume all responsibility
for the safety of the milk and the risk of harm for any reason, including
improper storage, refrigeration and tampering. Nursing mothers wishing to use
this room must request/reserve the room by contacting the City Clerk.
§ 36.072 INCLEMENT WEATHER.
   (A)   Emergency closings will be authorized by the Mayor. When changes in
hours of operations are necessary due to emergency situations, such as
inclement weather or loss of utilities, the City Clerk or other appointed
person will notify supervisors. Employees will be notified by their
supervisors.
   (B)   If the city system remains closed for an entire day because of an
emergency, all employees scheduled to work that day will be paid for the number
of hours they were scheduled to work. Employees able to telecommute will be
expected to work during regular working hours. If an emergency closing occurs
during the hours the city is open, employees will be paid for any remaining
hours scheduled on that day. However, emergency hours not actually worked will
not be included in overtime calculations. Further, if an employee is on
vacation or sick leave, he or she will not receive credit for the hours that
the city was closed.
   (C)   If the city opens late or closes early due to an emergency, scheduled
staff who report to work will receive credit for their regularly scheduled
hours for that day. However, emergency hours will not be included in overtime
calculations.
   (D)   When the city is open but extreme weather conditions make it
impossible for an employee to arrive at the regular time, reasonable allowances
for lateness will be made. If the employee cannot report for work within a
reasonable time, he or she must charge the day to vacation or leave without pay
equal to his or her regular work schedule hours for that day. The employee’s
supervisor should be notified as soon as possible.
   (E)   Certain essential services are required to be maintained during any
closing. The employees involved in these essential services are excused from
work only with the specific authorization of their supervisors regardless of
radio or other announcements. Supervisors should clarify beforehand who the
essential employees are during emergencies, what their obligations are and what
procedures will be used to let them know whether they will be needed to work.
Failure to report to work during emergencies by required essential services
employees may be cause for disciplinary action.
   (F)   Essential employees that are required to come in will be given time on
an hour-for-hour basis for any hours worked during the time period when City
Hall is closed. Any hours worked over 40 hours within the workweek will be paid
at time and one-half. Any hours worked over 40 hours within the workweek are
paid at one and one-half times the rate (overtime). The ability to take the
time off is at the request of the employee and the approval of the supervisor.
All time must be used within one year of accruing.
   (G)   The City Clerk will notify the public in the event the city opens late
or closes early.
§ 36.073 STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   Each employee is a representative of the city both internally with
coworkers and externally with citizens, contractors, business associates,
affiliates and others. As a representative of the city, each employee is
expected to act professionally, honestly, ethically, courteously and with
integrity in all business transactions and interpersonal interactions while at
work or in any performance of an activity on behalf of the city.
   (B)   (1)   The city expects all employees to conduct themselves in a
professional, mature and lawful manner. Employees must comply with established
rules, regulations, policies, procedures and directives. Failure to do so will
result in disciplinary action.
      (2)   To avoid misunderstandings about the types of conduct that are
considered unacceptable, a non-exhaustive list of specific infractions is
provided below purely for informational purposes as a general guide for
employees:
         (a)   Unexcused tardiness;
         (b)   Unexcused and excessive absenteeism;
         (c)   Failure to perform an assigned task, meet a deadline or
otherwise follow an instruction or directive;
         (d)   Insubordination or willful refusal to follow instructions,
rules, regulations, policies or to accept assignments;
         (e)   Misuse of leave time;
         (f)   Intentional or unintentional violations of the policies and
procedures in this handbook;
         (g)   Inability to perform duties or requirements of the job because
of the loss of necessary licenses or other requirements;
         (h)   Discourteous behavior toward the public or other employees;
         (i)   Theft or embezzlement of city property or assets;
         (j)   Use, possession, sale or transfer of illegal drugs, or being
under the influence of illegal drugs in any manner that may impair the
employee’s ability to perform assigned duties or that may adversely affect the
city’s business or reputation;
         (k)   Personal behavior, whether on or off duty, which discredits the
city and is likely to damage the public reputation of the city;
         (l)   Falsification of records;
         (m)   Invasion of another’s privacy;
         (n)   Assaulting or fighting;
         (o)   Conviction of a serious criminal offense which jeopardizes or is
injurious to the city’s property and security, its public reputation, the
interests of other employees or which is incompatible with the due and faithful
discharge of duties and responsibilities.
         (p)   Sexual or nonsexual harassment; and
         (q)   Horseplay or pranks which threaten the safety and security of
the workplace or are offensive to other employees.
§ 36.074 DRESS CODE AND HYGIENE.
   (A)   As representatives of the city during work hours, it is important for
employees to present a professional impression to citizens, vendors, coworkers
and others. Clothing should be neat, clean, in good taste and should not
constitute a safety hazard. Employees are expected to maintain the highest
standards of personal cleanliness and appearance during work hours and when
representing the city outside of normal work hours.
   (B)   The minimum standard of dress for city office employees is “business
casual,” although there are occasions or situations such as meetings that
require “business professional” attire. From time to time, these standards may
be relaxed by management to allow employees to wear more casual clothing.
Examples of such times include cleanup days, severely inclement weather or when
more casual clothing may be appropriate for the work to be done.
   (C)   For all employees, professional appearance also means that the city
expects the employee to maintain good hygiene and grooming while working.
Facial hair is permitted if it is neat and well trimmed. Rings through the
nose, eyebrow, tongue or body parts (other than the earlobe) visible to the
public may not be worn while working. Not all tattoos will be offensive in
nature. OFFENSIVE will generally mean anything of a sexual nature or anything
that impugns another’s race, creed, religion, color or sexual preference.
   (D)   An employee may be granted an exception to this policy by his or her
supervisor or the City Clerk for certain medical conditions, for a sincerely
held religious belief or other grounds protected by federal, state or local
laws. Reasonable accommodation will be granted unless it causes an undue
hardship on the city.
   (E)   An employee wearing inappropriate attire will be required to leave
work to change into appropriate attire. An employee will not be compensated for
the time he or she is away from work to change into appropriate attire and must
use vacation time, personal time or comp time for the time spent away from
work.
   (F)   To promote safety for the employees when traveling conditions are
hazardous, the city has instituted an “inclement weather dress code.” This
dress code will be in effect on days when county schools have delayed or
canceled classes due to inclement weather for that day. Employees may wear
casual clothing. Footwear that is flat and have high traction soles are
appropriate for these conditions and should be worn.
   (G)   An employee with questions regarding this policy should direct his or
her inquiries to the City Clerk.
§ 36.075 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT FOR EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Outside employment is defined as any paid employment performed by an
employee in addition to employment with the city.
   (B)   (1)   Any employee desiring to perform outside employment will first
obtain written approval on the Outside Employment Request Form (HR Form 16) in
Appendix A from his or her supervisor subject to the approval of the Mayor.
      (2)   Approval may be granted provided that such employment does not:
         (a)   Interfere with the performance of the employee’s duties;
         (b)   Involve a conflict of interest or conflict with the employee’s
duties;
         (c)   Involve the performance of duties which the employee should
perform as a part of employment with the city; and
         (d)   Occur during the employee’s regular or assigned working hours
unless the employee is on vacation leave, comp leave, personal leave or leave
without pay. Employees on any form of sick leave which includes workers’
compensation leave may not work outside employment pursuant to division (D)
below.
   (C)   The employee will make arrangements with the outside employer to be
relieved of duties in the event the employee is called for emergency service by
the city.
   (D)   An employee who is approved for sick leave, including workers’
compensation leave, or who is approved for limited duty is prohibited from
engaging in secondary employment. Employees who engage in other employment or
are self-employed while on authorized leave of absence or light duty will be
terminated unless written authorization has been granted prior to commencement
of the leave of absence. The above limitations specifically do not apply to an
employee’s use of vacation leave, comp leave, personal leave or absences
resulting from a temporary reduction-in force.
   (E)   Police officers and firefighters will follow the secondary employment
policy contained in the Police Department’s and Fire Department’s standard
operating procedures.
§ 36.076 UNIFORMS.
   (A)   The annual budget process will determine the uniform policy of the
city.
   (B)   All employees who are authorized to wear uniforms provided by the city
will wear the uniforms during all working hours. Uniforms provided by the city
will be worn only to and from work, while at work and unless there is an
applicable exclusion, will be considered taxable benefits and credited with
additional income for the amount of the uniform expenses for tax purposes for
each pay period.
   (C)   If the city provides “everyday apparel” in lieu of uniforms, e.g.,
blue jeans, civilian clothing for sworn police personnel and the like, the
actual allowance or cost of apparel will be considered taxable benefits and
credited with additional income for the amount of the apparel expenses for tax
purposes for each pay period.
   (D)   The value of clothing provided by an employer to an employee must be
included as taxable income of the employee unless there is an applicable income
exclusion. Possible income exclusions could apply when the employer provides
clothing:
      (1)   De minimis benefit, which is a benefit so small that accounting for
it would be unreasonable or administratively impracticable considering its
value and frequency pursuant to 26 U.S.C. § 132(a)(4);
      (2)   Clothing not suitable for general wear; and
      (3)   Police officers and firefighters that are required to wear uniforms
and other clearly marked clothing while on duty will not wear those uniforms or
other marked clothing while off duty. Any police officer or firefighter wearing
the above-mentioned clothing while off duty will be subject to disciplinary
action.
   (E)   Anyone obtaining personal protective equipment (PPE) through the city
is required to wear the PPE whenever necessitated by work duties or conditions.
PPE will not be considered taxable benefits.
§ 36.077 USE OF OFFICE AND MOBILE TELEPHONES.
   The office telephone system is provided and paid for by the city to
facilitate the conduct of its business. Extensive use of the city telephone
system or mobile phones for the personal business of employees interferes with
the efficient and effective conduct of the city’s business. While the city
understands that employees must occasionally make and accept personal calls,
texts or other messages during work hours, personal communication should be
kept to a minimum both in terms of the number of personal calls/messages per
day and the duration of individual calls/messages. Excessive use of the office
telephone system, mobile phones or personal mobile phones for personal calls,
texting or other personal messaging during work hours may result in
disciplinary action.
§ 36.078 MOBILE TELEPHONES.
   (A)   The city makes available mobile telephones to employees to facilitate
the conduct of city business. Decisions regarding which employees are eligible
to be issued with these devices are made based on the employee’s job functions.
   (B)   Employees who have been issued and who have accepted mobile telephones
from the city are subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   Standard model mobile telephones are purchased by the city and
replaced as determined by the provider’s contract. If a device is lost, stolen
or is physically damaged beyond repair, the employee will be responsible for
paying a replacement cost. The replacement cost will be calculated as a pro
rata amount based on the amount of time remaining on the provider’s contract.
Employees are responsible for the purchase of additional equipment or other
accessories that are not included with the original purchase of the phone and
are responsible for the full replacement cost of such items.
      (2)   Employees will not submit, nor will any supervisor approve, any
mobile telephone expenses for reimbursement on an employee expense report.
      (3)   Employees who incur additional charges will be responsible for
those charges and will be invoiced for the amount.
      (4)   All city policies including, and not limited to, safety,
harassment, ethical conduct, confidentiality, protected health information and
conflict of interest apply fully to electronic device usage.
      (5)   All devices must be protected by a password. The user agrees to
never disclose his or her password to anyone. The password should be a minimum
of four characters. The device will automatically be locked after a period of
inactivity.
      (6)   Lost or stolen phones or other communication devices should be
immediately reported to the human resources manager.
      (7)   Since mobile telephone data and locally stored data may be subject
to the Open Records Act, there is no expectation of privacy. Each user is
responsible and accountable for the content and use of these tools. Should a
personal device be used for business purposes, the employee must comply with
the Open Records Act, including archiving data.
      (8)   An employee issued a city telephone may keep his or her number when
he or she retires from the city or when he or she terminates employment with
the city, but the phone must be returned to the city. All city information
stored on the phone should be removed by the last day of employment. The city
reserves the right to delete information on the communication device.
§ 36.079 VEHICLE USE.
   (A)   The operation of vehicles is necessary in conducting much of the
city’s business. This policy establishes requirements governing the operation
of city owned, leased or rented vehicles and the operation of personal vehicles
while conducting business on behalf of the city. Supervisors are responsible
for implementation and enforcement of this policy for all vehicles and drivers
assigned to their department.
   (B)   Employees operating the city owned, leased or rented vehicles, which
include special-use vehicles, such as construction and excavation equipment
designed to operate primarily off-road but driven on public roads to a job
site, and employees who are performing employment functions on behalf of the
city in a privately owned vehicle must meet and adhere to the following
requirements.
      (1)   The employee will hold a valid driver’s license.
      (2)   Operators of CDL and non-CDL vehicles will have held a valid driver
license for at least three years before being allowed to operate a city owned
vehicle. Operators may drive city owned vehicles with fewer than three years of
experience only after successfully completing on the job CDL training or a
driver skills evaluation.
      (3)   The employee will not operate a city owned vehicle or use a
privately owned vehicle in conducting business on behalf of the city while the
employee’s license is under revocation or suspension.
      (4)   A valid driver’s license must always be in the employee’s
possession while operating a city owned vehicle. In the case of commercially
rated vehicles, the proper commercial driver’s license for the vehicle’s weight
and class must be valid and in the driver’s possession.
      (5)   Any employee who may operate a vehicle while performing employment
functions on behalf of the city will be subject to an annual Division of Motor
Vehicle Records Check and must sign the Driver’s License Background Check
Release (HR Form 04) in Appendix A. The city will use the commonwealth’s
individual driving record and corresponding point system to monitor the risks
associated with operating vehicles while in the city’s employment.
         (a)   An accumulation of eight or more points in the previous 12-month
period or an accumulation of ten or more points in the previous 18-month period
will be cause for disciplinary action up to and including suspension of city
driving privileges.
         (b)   The City Clerk will advise the employee’s supervisor and the
Mayor when a driving record meets this threshold.
         (c)   Problem drivers should be identified and if possible, should be
enrolled in a defensive driving training course.
      (7)   Only city employees are authorized to operate city owned vehicles.
         (a)   Persons volunteering services to the city are considered
employees of the city for purposes of this policy and may operate city owned
vehicles when his or her duties require travel as long as such travel is under
the approval or direction of the supervisor and necessary in the course of
performing official city business.
         (b)   Employees of other public entities may operate city vehicles
under the specific approval of the department supervisor as long as such
operation is essential in conducting city business. Supervisors granting
permission for non-city employees to operate city owned vehicles are
responsible for ensuring that the driver is properly licensed, trained and
qualified to operate the vehicle.
      (8)   Only persons being transported in connection with official city
business will be passengers in any city owned vehicle.
      (9)   Intentional abuse, moving violations, reckless operation or
negligent actions while operating any city owned vehicle may result in the
suspension of the employee’s driving privileges and is grounds for further
disciplinary action.
      (10)   When cargo, materials or tools are being transported, the driver
is responsible for assuring that all items are properly secured to prevent them
from shifting or falling from the vehicle or trailer.
      (11)   No person will be allowed to ride on running boards, fenders,
hoods, tailgates, beds or other locations on a vehicle not designed or approved
by the vehicle manufacturer for passenger seating. An exception to this
prohibition will be vehicles assigned to the Street and Sanitation Department
which are suitably designed and equipped for passengers outside the cab area.
      (12)   Riding on garbage trucks will be performed in compliance with
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Z245.1 mobile refuse collection
and compaction requirements.
      (13)   Alcoholic beverages will not be transported or placed in any city
owned vehicle.
      (14)   An employee who operates a city owned vehicle regardless of
frequency is responsible for the proper care and operation of that vehicle.
      (15)   Preoperational inspection for passenger sedans, light-duty pickup
trucks and all other vehicles that do not require a CDL.
         (a)   At least once per day the operator of these vehicles is
responsible for ensuring that all vehicle safety equipment, including
headlights, turn signals, brake lights and horn, are functioning properly.
         (b)   The operator is also responsible for ensuring that fluid levels
including brake, transmission, engine oil and coolant are properly maintained.
         (c)   Any defects which will affect the safe operation of the vehicle
will be promptly reported to the driver’s supervisor or central garage. No
employee will operate a city owned vehicle in an unsafe condition. Any vehicle
damage which is beyond normal wear and tear must be documented and reported to
the employee’s supervisor and central garage.
      (16)   Preoperational inspection for all vehicles that require a CDL
includes the following.
         (a)   At least once per day, the operator of these vehicles is
responsible for ensuring that all vehicle safety equipment, including
headlights, turn signals, brake lights and horn, are functioning properly. The
operator is also responsible for ensuring that fluid levels, including brake,
transmission, engine oil and coolant, are properly maintained.
         (b)   In addition to the requirements above, the operator of these
vehicles is responsible for ensuring that all preoperational checks as required
by the DOT CDL rules are complied with. In addition, the operator will complete
a vehicle condition report at the beginning of the first shift of each day.
         (c)   Any defects which will affect the safe operation of the vehicle
will be promptly reported to the driver’s supervisor or central garage. No
employee will operate a city owned vehicle in an unsafe condition. Any vehicle
damage which is beyond normal wear and tear must be documented and reported to
the employee’s supervisor and central garage. At the end of the week, the form
will be forwarded to the central garage for archiving. A new form will be
initiated at the beginning of each week.
      (17)   A qualified operator must be positioned at the vehicle’s controls
any time it is running unless otherwise approved by the manufacturer.
      (18)   No vehicle will be left unattended without first stopping the
motor, locking the ignition, removing the key, setting the parking brake,
locking the doors or otherwise securing the vehicle to prevent theft, vandalism
and unintentional movement.
      (19)   Vehicles responding to emergency situations or those parked on job
sites will be parked with due regard to safety and security considerations.
      (20)   City owned vehicles not taken home will be secured in city parking
lots during non-duty hours. The keys will be removed and the vehicle locked.
When it is necessary to leave a vehicle at a job site overnight, the operator
will ensure the vehicle is parked and secured in an area which provides
reasonable security.
      (21)   When using a trailer, dolly or other equipment, the following will
apply.
         (a)   The driver will ensure that the trailer hitch is securely
latched, adequate for the load being towed, properly installed on the towing
vehicle and that safety chains are properly attached.
         (b)   The driver will ensure that the trailer or other towed equipment
is supplied with proper lighting, including brake lights, turn signals and
running lights.
         (c)   Any vehicle having a load which extends more than four feet
beyond the rear will have the end of the load marked with a red flag which will
be at least 12 inches square.
      (22)   Backing guidelines for large vehicle and construction equipment
are as follows:
         (a)   Whenever possible, the driver will position the vehicle to avoid
the necessity of backing;
         (b)   Park the vehicle so that the first move is forward when leaving.
This means backing the vehicle into a parking space or pulling through a
parking space;
         (c)   These methods do not apply to diagonal parking spaces;
         (d)   Before entering the vehicle, the driver will perform a
walkaround to check clearances prior to entering the vehicle;
         (e)   The driver will not back the vehicle unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic;
         (f)   Never back a vehicle when windows or mirrors are covered with
snow, ice, frost or other substance that prevents the driver from a clear
visual path;
         (g)   Back slowly even during emergency situations;
         (h)   Be familiar with the vehicle’s blind spots to reduce the area
that may not be visible in the side mirrors;
         (i)   When available, use a spotter to back all vehicles. Before and
during backing movements, the driver and spotter should check blind zones for
objects not visible in rear-view mirrors, watch both sides for adequate
clearance and limit speed to allow a full stop;
         (j)   If a spotter is not available, cones will be placed in the front
and rear of the vehicle after parking and picked up prior to leaving to ensure
a full walkaround is completed; and
         (k)   This policy applies to all vehicles, including those fitted with
backup cameras. These cameras can be an effective tool for preventing backing
accidents, but such equipment should be used in addition to the techniques
outlined in this policy.
      (23)   The employee will obey all city, county, state, federal laws and
regulations.
      (24)   The employee will not operate a motor vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol or while being under the influence of illegal or
controlled substances.
      (25)   When it is necessary for a city employee to use a rental vehicle
for city business, the employee will use a city-approved leasing agency. The
city will purchase optional comprehensive/collision damage coverage through the
leasing agency at the time the vehicle is rented.
      (26)   The employee and all occupants will always wear safety belts/
safety restraints and all occupants of city owned vehicles must properly wear
seat belts/safety restraints any time the vehicle is in motion.
         (a)   The operator of construction, excavation and other off-road
equipment will use the occupant restraint system any time the vehicle is in
operation.
         (b)   Employees are prohibited from removing, deactivating, modifying
or otherwise defeating any occupant restraint system installed by the
manufacturer unless approved or instructed by the manufacturer.
      (27)   No employee will operate a vehicle while normal vision is
obstructed.
   (C)   All employees operating a vehicle on city business will undergo annual
defensive driver training.
      (1)   The Kentucky League of Cities (KLC) offers two defensive driving
courses for the employee’s convenience. Each of these courses has four modules.
Each module can easily be viewed in under 30 minutes.
      (2)   Use one course per year for training purposes.
      (3)   The defensive driving courses can be found on the KLC Insurance
portal under the Risk and Safety tab.
   (D)   The city will not provide coverage for liability or physical damage to
an employee’s privately owned vehicle. Employees who use personally owned
vehicles for city business should confirm that their personal auto insurance
policy provides coverage for this use.
      (1)   Employees who use their personal vehicle while conducting city
business will maintain at least minimum of liability coverage in an amount not
less than $100,000 per occurrence/$300,000 annual aggregate, and property
damage coverage in an amount not less than $100,000 per occurrence.
      (2)   Annual verification of minimum coverage will be requested.
   (E)   Any employee who receives a citation or towing charge while operating
a city owned vehicle will notify the Mayor in writing within 48 hours of
receipt of the citation or towing charge.
   (F)   An employee who operates a city owned motor vehicle is required to
immediately notify the Mayor of any motor vehicle violation conviction entered
against the employee that involves DUI or which has resulted, or may result, in
the suspension or revocation of the employee’s motor vehicle license.
   (G)   If the operation of a city owned vehicle is a condition of employment
and an employee is unable to operate a motor vehicle due to the suspension or
revocation of the employee’s license, the employee must immediately inform the
Mayor of the suspension or revocation.
      (1)   Any DUI conviction or refusal to submit to a lawful roadside
sobriety test will result in disciplinary action up to and including suspension
of city driving privileges.
      (2)   An employee whose driver’s license has been suspended for any
reason will not be allowed to operate any over-the-road city owned vehicles.
      (3)   Employees who have obtained temporary driving permits or hardship
licenses will not be permitted to operate over-the-road city or privately owned
vehicles in the performance of official city duties.
      (4)   Temporary or permanent suspension of city driving privileges will
be considered loss of a job prerequisite for employees whose position requires
operation of an over-the-road vehicle.
      (5)   Additionally, the employee must, at his or her own expense, arrange
for and provide transportation so the employee is able to continue to fulfill
the employee’s job requirements.
      (6)   An employee who has been determined to be “at fault” in two or more
accidents within a 24-month period while driving a city owned or privately
owned vehicle in the performance of official city business will be subject to
disciplinary action up to and including suspension of city driving privileges.
§ 36.080 DISTRACTED DRIVING.
   (A)   Employees will not use cellular telephones or any other mobile
electronic devices while operating a motor vehicle to read or respond to emails
or text messages or accessing the internet unless an exception under division
(C) below applies. Employees are prohibited from wearing a headset or earphones
over or in both ears. This policy is in effect while operating a city owned
vehicle or operating a privately owned vehicle while conducting city business.
   (B)   Furthermore, employees, unless an exception under division (C) below
applies, should consider:
      (1)   Turning off wireless phones before starting the car;
      (2)   Pulling over to a safe place and putting the vehicle in “park” if a
call must be made or received while on the road;
      (3)   Modifying voicemail greeting to indicate the employee is
unavailable to answer calls or return messages while driving;
      (4)   Informing clients, associates and others of this policy and an
explanation on why calls may not be returned immediately; and
      (5)   Pulling over to a safe place and putting the vehicle in “park” to
make adjustments to a global positioning system (GPS) or other navigational
device.
   (C)   Pursuant to KRS 189.292, this policy will not apply to an emergency or
public safety vehicle when the use of a personal communication device is an
essential function of the vehicle operator’s official duties.
§ 36.081 VEHICLE ACCIDENT REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An employee involved in a vehicle accident with a vehicle owned,
leased or rented by the city or involved in a vehicle accident in a privately
owned automobile while on city business will follow these rules:
      (1)   Summon medical care for injured individuals;
      (2)   Notify appropriate law enforcement authorities;
      (3)   Notify the employee’s supervisor;
      (4)   Do not admit responsibility, fault or offer settlements;
      (5)   Cooperate with law enforcement authorities and emergency medical
personnel;
      (6)   Obtain the names and addresses of any witnesses and involved
parties; and
      (7)   Submit to a drug and alcohol test as described in the drug- and
alcohol-free workplace policy in §
36.066.
   (B)   The employee’s supervisor will be responsible for initiating any
departmental investigation, ensuring the completion of all required city
reports and recommending any follow-up preventative actions. In addition, the
employee’s supervisor will notify the Mayor and City Clerk of any injuries
sustained by a city employee in accordance with the reporting work-related
accidents policy in §
36.064. The City Clerk will immediately notify the city’s insurance carrier.
§ 36.082 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT) ACCEPTABLE USE.
   (A)   The city’s electronic resources are provided for the transaction of
official business of the city. This policy is intended to establish rules
applicable to all city personnel to ensure the city’s electronic resources are
appropriately utilized and protected.
   (B)   All data that is stored on city owned media is city property. To
properly maintain and manage this data, the management may exercise at any time
its right to inspect, record and/or remove any or all information contained in
computer databases, files, email records and to take appropriate action should
unauthorized or improper usage be discovered.
   (C)   All employees and officers who use computer equipment and software in
the performance of their duties will take all reasonable and necessary
precautions to prevent damage to the equipment and software. To ensure the
city’s computer system and software integrity, all employees and officers are
prohibited from connecting any hardware or loading any software onto the system
or any individual component of the system unless the hardware or software has
been specifically approved in advance by the Mayor and the Police Chief.
   (D)   Access to the data stored on the city’s computer systems will be
limited to city employees and officers who require such access for the
performance of their assigned duties. Employees or officers may not attempt to
use passwords to gain access to coworkers’ email or computer files without
appropriate authorization.
   (E)   No employee or officer will make copies of data or software programs
owned by the city for his or her own personal use or for any purpose not
required by the employee’s assigned duties. If a software licensing agreement
authorizes the reproduction of software, and an employee desires to obtain a
copy of the software for installation on a single home computer to assist the
employee in the performance of assigned duties outside of regular office hours,
the employee will seek specific approval from the Mayor and the Police Chief
before copying the software.
   (F)   All city business email communications will be conducted through the
city email accounts. No city business conducted by an officer or employee of
the city will occur through a personal email account. Any city business
conducted outside of the city email account will be subject to open records and
it is the responsibility of the employee or officer to retain those messages in
accordance with the Open Records Act, the KDLA Schedule. Questions regarding
any recordkeeping requirements should be directed to the City Clerk.
   (G)   Employees or officers should have no expectation of privacy associated
with information they transmit through or store in electronic mail programs
owned by the city, even those on a cell phone. All messages and data processed
electronically over the city owned computers and communications systems are
city property and may be subject to the Open Records Act.
   (H)   In order to maintain the integrity and security of the city computer
resources, employees or officers are strictly prohibited from downloading any
software unless prior approval is granted by the employee’s supervisor after
consultation with the Mayor and the Police Chief. Excessive use of the internet
for personal reasons during work hours may be grounds for disciplinary action.
   (I)   Internet usage is intended for job-related activities; however,
incidental and occasional brief personal use is permitted within reasonable
limits.
   (J)   The equipment, services and technology provided to access the internet
always remain city property. As such, the city reserves the right to monitor
internet traffic and retrieve and read any data composed, sent or received
through our online connections and stored in our computer systems.
   (K)   The electronic mail and other information systems, including facsimile
machines, of the city are not to be used in a way that may be disruptive,
offensive to others or harmful to morale.
   (L)   There is to be no display or transmission of sexually explicit images,
messages or cartoons, or any transmission or use of email communications that
contain ethnic slurs, racial epithets or anything that may be construed as
harassment or disparagement of others based on their race, national origin,
ethnicity, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability, religious or political
beliefs or any other protected class.
§ 36.083 CITY SOCIAL MEDIA.
   (A)   The city may utilize social media and social network sites to further
communicate with citizens.
   (B)   The purpose of the city’s social media site is to disseminate
information from the city and to encourage discussion of city issues,
operations and services by providing members of the public the opportunity to
participate through various platforms.
   (C)   For purposes of this policy, “social media” is understood to be
content created by individuals using the internet. Examples of social media
include Facebook, blogs, Snapchat, Instagram, YouTube, Twitter and LinkedIn.
   (D)   For purposes of this policy, “comments” include information, articles,
pictures, videos or any other form of communicative content posted on the
city’s social media site.
   (E)   The establishment and use by any city department of city social media
sites are subject to approval by the Mayor and the Police Chief or his or her
designee.
   (F)   City social media sites should clearly state they are maintained by
the city and that they follow the city’s social media policy. All social media
sites will clearly indicate that any content posted or submitted for posting is
subject to public disclosure.
   (G)   The site should adhere to all applicable state, federal and local
laws, regulations and policies, including city information technology and
records management policies.
   (H)   The designated coordinator of the social media site will monitor
content on the social media site to ensure adherence to both the city’s social
media policy and the interest and goals of the city. The city reserves the
right to restrict or remove any content that is deemed in violation of this
city’s social media policy or any applicable law. Any content removed based on
these guidelines must be retained by the designated coordinator, including the
time, date and identity of the poster when available.
   (I)   Employees representing the city via the city’s social media sites must
always conduct themselves
as a representative of the city and in accordance with all city policies.
   (J)   When a city employee responds to a comment in his or her city employee
capacity, the employee’s name and title will be made available and the employee
will not share personal information about himself or herself or other city
employees.
   (K)   All comments posted to any city social media site are bound by the
social media’s statement of rights and responsibilities, and the city reserves
the right to report any violation to the social media site with the intent
being that the social media site takes appropriate and reasonable responsive
action.
§ 36.084 EMPLOYEE GUIDELINES FOR PARTICIPATING IN SOCIAL MEDIA.
   (A)   Employees that choose to participate in social media as a city
employee should adhere to the following guidelines.
      (1)   City policies, rules, regulations and standards of conduct apply to
employees that engage in social networking activities while conducting city
business. Use of an employee’s city email address and communicating in his or
her official capacity will constitute conducting city business.
      (2)   City employees will notify their supervisor, the Mayor and the
Police Chief if they intend to create a social media account or service to
conduct city business.
      (3)   Departments have the option of allowing employees to participate in
existing social media sites as part of their job duties. Supervisors may allow
or disallow employee participation in any social media activities in their
departments.
      (4)   The protection of the employee’s privacy and the privacy of
citizens by following all privacy protection laws, e.g., Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and to protect sensitive and
confidential city information.
      (5)   Follow all copyright laws, public records laws, retention laws,
fair use, financial disclosure laws and any other laws that might apply to the
city or the department.
      (6)   Do not cite vendors, suppliers, clients, citizens, coworkers or
other stakeholders without their approval.
      (7)   The employee should make it clear that he or she is speaking for
himself or herself and not on behalf of the city. If the employee publishes
content on any website outside of the city and it has something to do with the
work he or she does or is on a subject associated with the city, the employee
should use a disclaimer such as: “The postings on this site are my own and
don’t necessarily represent the City of Irvine’s positions or opinions.”
      (8)   Do not use ethnic slurs, profanity, personal insults or engage in
any conduct that would not be acceptable in the city’s workplace. Avoid
comments or topics that may be considered objectionable or inflammatory.
      (9)   If the employee identifies himself or herself as a city employee,
he or she should ensure his or her profile and related content is consistent
with how he or she wishes to present himself or herself to colleagues, citizens
and stakeholders.
      (10)   Frame any comments or opposing views in a positive manner. Add
value to the city through interaction by providing worthwhile information and
perspective.
   (B)   Guidelines for participating in social media by police officers and
firefighters are contained within the Police Department Policy and Procedure
Manual and the Fire Department Policy and Procedure Manual.
§ 36.085 EMPLOYEE PRIVACY EXPECTATIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding issues addressed specifically in other provisions of
this handbook, employees can expect a reasonable degree of privacy in the
contents of their work areas, including desks, cabinets, closets and similar
locations. However, when an employee is absent or otherwise unavailable, the
city may seek out for a legitimate business purpose material believed to be
contained in those work areas.
   (B)   Supervisors may examine work area contents or listen to employee
communications of their subordinate employees for the purpose of ascertaining
or evaluating the quality and/or quantity of an employee’s work.
   (C)   Employees cannot expect any degree of privacy in any documents,
records, files or city owned devices, including, but not limited to, computers,
cell phones and tablets. Documents, records, files and city owned devices can
be reviewed and searched at any time for any reason, including preparation of a
response to an open records request.
   (D)   The contents of work areas may be subject to search where there is
reasonable cause to believe there is a violation of these policies or evidence
of a violation of any local, state or federal laws. Searches of work areas for
this reason may only be conducted with the consent and involvement of the
Mayor.
§ 36.086 SMOKE-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   The city has a strict smoke-free workplace policy in all city
buildings to provide a safe and healthy environment for all employees and
customers.
   (B)   Smoking is not allowed in any city building or in any other place
prohibited by law or city ordinance.
   (C)   Designated smoking areas outside and away from entrances to city
buildings will be specified for employees.
§ 36.087 CUSTOMER RELATIONS.
   (A)   The city requires city employees to provide excellent customer service
to the public and to their coworkers. The same quality service is provided to
all customers regardless of age, race, nationality, socioeconomic and
educational background, physical condition and the like.
   (B)   The city’s success and long-range plans are built on this commitment
to provide excellent customer service by:
      (1)   Revising policies to value and support customer service;
      (2)   Creating customer service training;
      (3)   Establishing plans for promoting customer communication; and
      (4)   Developing metrics for customer satisfaction.
§ 36.088 OPEN RECORDS POLICY.
   (A)   KRS 61.870 to KRS 61.884, the Open Records Act, establishes a right of
access to public records. The General Assembly recognized that the free and
open examination of public records is in the public interest. All public
records, whether they are stored in a computer or on paper, must be open for
inspection unless the records are exempted by one or more of the exemptions
found in the Act. An employee may inspect any nonexempt public record
regardless of his or her identity.
   (B)   Information regarding requesting an open record can be obtained from
the City Clerk.
§ 36.089 SUGGESTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Employees are encouraged to submit suggestions that could allow the
city to operate more efficiently and effectively.
   (B)   Information or notification of safety concerns or imminent hazards to
employees or to the public should be reported directly to the supervisor
responsible for the location or the work process. Anonymity as to this
reporting cannot be guaranteed.
   (C)   Suggestions should be submitted to the City Clerk, who will forward
them to the Mayor along with recommendations for approval or disapproval.
Employees who submit suggestions that are approved may receive recognition at
the City Council meeting following implementation of the suggestion.
EMPLOYEE FINANCIAL PRACTICES, REPORTING AND REIMBURSEMENT
§ 36.100 PURPOSE OF THE EMPLOYEE FINANCIAL PRACTICES, REPORTING AND
REIMBURSEMENT POLICIES.
   The purpose of the policies contained in this section of the handbook is to
outline for employees all allowable business-related expenses and provide
instruction for the handling of purchases and employee reimbursement. Employees
should also be guided by the other policies contained in this handbook in
making any financial transaction on behalf of the city or in incurring any
business-related expenses for the city, including the code of ethics in Chapter
38 and work conduct policies.
§ 36.101 EMPLOYEE EXPENSE REPORTS AND REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Business expenses may be charged to the city on a credit card issued
to the employee in accordance with the use of a city credit card policy in §
36.102 or paid from the employee’s private funds and reimbursed upon the
submission of the documentation required under this policy.
   (B)   An employee requesting reimbursement for business-related expenses
made on behalf of the city will complete the Expense Report (HR Form 11) in
Appendix A. The employee will submit expenses and supporting documentation in
the following manner.
      (1)   Expenses will be submitted on at least a calendar-month basis.
Expenses submitted for reimbursement are due to the City Accounting Department
within 15 days from the end of the month in which the expenses were incurred.
Employees will not include expenses from different calendar months on the same
expense report.
      (2)   Requests for reimbursement in expense reports will be accompanied
by an itemized receipt and all supporting documentation. The employee will
provide the business purpose, the date, location, amount and the persons being
covered by the purchase on the receipt or in the supporting documentation.
Failure to provide a receipt and other applicable supporting documentation will
result in denial of the reimbursement unless the expense report is accompanied
by an approved Missing Receipt Affidavit (HR Form 12) in Appendix A. Credit
card statements will not be accepted as evidence of a receipt.
      (3)   All expense reports must be approved and signed by the employee’s
supervisor with the responsibility of budgeting and reviewing business expense
information for the employee’s department. The City Clerk or his or her
designee will review all expense reports prior to reimbursement for the purpose
of determining compliance with city policies. The Mayor’s and Council members’
expense reports will be submitted to the City Clerk and approved by the City
Council, in accordance with the city budget.
   (C)   An employee who submits a fraudulent receipt or falsifies his or her
expense report will lose reimbursement privileges, will be terminated or other
appropriate disciplinary action will be taken.
   (D)   The city may withhold reimbursement while it investigates or verifies
expense report reimbursement requests.
§ 36.102 USE OF A CITY CREDIT CARD.
   (A)   The city has authorized revolving city credit cards to be issued to
certain officers and employees recommended by the Mayor and approved by the
City Council. City credit cards are for use in making operational business
purchases, purchases related to meetings and other legitimate business expenses
as set forth in this policy.
      (1)   Operational expenses are those expenses necessary for the running
of the city. Examples include, but are not limited to, office supplies and
equipment, other office-related expenses, computer supplies and any other non-
travel related expenses.
      (2)   Meeting-related expenses include, but are not limited to, group
meals, hotel meeting rooms, prepaid airfare, prepaid hotel accommodations,
prepaid business car rental, prepaid conference and meeting registrations,
prepaid expenses for meetings and unanticipated event or travel needs.
      (3)   These examples are not intended to limit credit card use for other
legitimate business expenses.
   (B)   Employees issued a city credit card for operational or meeting-related
expenses will be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Only legitimate business and operational-related purchases may be
charged on a city credit card.
      (2)   The city credit cards will not be used for personal expenses of any
kind. If an expense is determined to be personal in nature, the expense must be
reimbursed immediately. The City Council, upon review, may require
reimbursement of a personal expense outside of this time frame.
      (3)   All monthly credit card statements will be reviewed by the person
named on the card and his or her immediate supervisor, both of whom will sign
each page of the statement as evidence that they accept the identified expenses
as legitimate business expenses. In addition, the statements will be reviewed
by the City Clerk or his or her designee to determine compliance with city
policies.
      (4)   Itemized receipts of each transaction made using a city credit card
must be submitted to the City Clerk promptly for approval. The receipts will
provide details on the business purpose, date, location, amount, persons
covered by the purchase and will bear evidence of supervisor approval on their
face. Credit card statements will not be accepted as evidence of a receipt.
   (C)   The city will review the policy regarding credit card usage and credit
card limits on an as-needed basis but no less than every three years.
§ 36.103 EMPLOYEE TRAVEL EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Prior to any travel, an employee will receive prior written approval
through the submission of a Travel, Meeting and Training Request (HR Form 09)
in Appendix A. The Travel, Meeting and Training Request Form will be reviewed
and approved by the employee’s immediate supervisor and the Mayor. Any travel
that has not been approved in the city operating or travel budget will be
approved by amendment of the budget by the City Council.
   (B)   Registration for conferences and meetings will be performed by the
City Clerk or other designated staff. Before registration is complete, the
employee will provide the City Clerk with an approved copy of the Travel,
Meeting and Training Request Form. Employees should make an effort to provide
this information in a timely manner so that the lowest possible registration
fees may be obtained.
   (C)   Reservations for overnight lodging will be made by the City Clerk
unless otherwise approved by the Mayor. Before reservations are made, the
employee will provide an approved copy of the Travel, Meeting and Training
Request Form to the City Clerk.
      (1)   Reservations will be made in such a manner to secure the best
available rate for safe, clean and secure accommodations that are as close to
the meeting location as possible. Every attempt should be made to stay in the
hotel hosting the conference or meeting and to pay the conference room rate.
      (2)   In-room movies, room service, mini-bar, use of hotel gym, spa or
massage services, sauna facilities or other additions to room bills are not
reimbursable. Only usual and customary expenses are eligible for reimbursement.
      (3)   A copy of the hotel folio or receipt showing proof of payment will
be submitted by the employee for reimbursement.
   (D)   Employees may use a city owned vehicle or their own vehicle for
business travel on behalf of the city. Employees will adhere to the following
process related to mileage reimbursement.
      (1)   When an employee traveling on behalf of the city chooses to use his
or her personal vehicle, the employee will be reimbursed for mileage.
      (2)   An employee will be reimbursed at the mileage rate allowed by the
commonwealth rate for business expense deductions under the following
guidelines.
         (a)   An employee will not be reimbursed for transportation or
commuting between the employee’s home and his or her permanent workplace.
         (b)   Mileage will not be reimbursed for attendance of a city function
or event held outside of the workplace unless the employee has been assigned to
work at the event.
         (c)   When an employee does not report to his or her permanent
workplace or makes business trips before or after reporting to his or her
permanent workplace, the allowable mileage is:
            1.   The lesser of the mileage from the employee’s residence to the
first stop or from the office to the first stop;
            2.   All mileage between points visited on city business during the
day; and
            3.   The lesser of the mileage from the last stop to the employee’s
residence or from the last stop to the city office.
         (d)   To receive mileage reimbursement, the employee will state on his
or her expense report the total number of miles traveled on city business. The
employee will include the starting points and ending destination for each trip
along with a description of the purpose of the travel. Any travel of a personal
nature while on city business will be deducted from the total miles traveled.
         (e)   Parking violations and traffic or other moving motor violations
are not reimbursable expenses.
         (f)   If the employee is involved in an auto accident while driving
his or her own privately owned vehicle on city business, he or she will follow
the vehicle accident reporting requirements policy outlined in §
36.081.
   (E)   Except for reimbursable expenses related to official city business as
provided in §§
36.100 through
36.108, employees will only be provided reimbursement for meals involving
overnight travel within the commonwealth and for trips requiring travel after
7:00 p.m. Meal and incidental reimbursement amounts will be determined using
the federal per diem schedule for each meal as established by the U.S. General
Services Administration (USGSA) at www.gsa.gov. The applicable rates are
established and updated by the USGSA on October 1 of each year and are
available from the City Clerk upon request. No receipts are required for per
diem meal reimbursement and an employee will receive meal reimbursements in
accordance with the following guidelines.
      (1)   For overnight travel, an employee is responsible for identifying
the city of travel and the associated per diem rates for each meal. The per
diem amounts include the cost of the meal and gratuity and no additional
amounts will be reimbursed. An employee will be reimbursed the per diem amounts
for breakfast, lunch, dinner and incidentals for full days of travel involving
overnight stay. An employee will receive per diem reimbursement for only
certain meals on both the first and the last day of travel depending on the
employee’s departure and return times. The employee will use the per diems
applicable to the city of primary destination. The city of primary destination
is the city the employee is traveling to on days of departure and the city the
employee is traveling from on days of return. If the employee is visiting
multiple cities and has stayed overnight within the state, the employee will
select one city to serve as the primary destination for calculation of the per
diems for the day.
         (a)   Breakfast will be reimbursed if the employee departs for travel
before 7:30 a.m.
         (b)   Lunch will be reimbursed when the employee is traveling through
2:00 p.m.
         (c)   Dinner will be reimbursed if the employee will not return until
7:00 p.m. or later.
      (2)   For travel after 7:00 p.m. not involving overnight stay, an
employee may elect to be reimbursed the allowable dinner per diem applicable to
the city the employee is traveling to or from. The city will include the
reimbursement as additional income to the employee and applicable taxes will be
withheld from the employee’s gross pay.
      (3)   The city will not reimburse a meal per diem allowance for any meal
that is included in a registration fee for a conference or training when the
employee’s meal is covered under a group meal receipt submitted under division
(E)(4) below or when a receipt has been submitted for reimbursement as an
expense related to official city business as provided in §§
36.100 through
36.108. Conference or training functions where finger foods or hors d’oeuvres
are served and continental breakfasts provided by hotels or conference sponsors
do not constitute meals and the employee is entitled to claim per diem for that
meal.
      (4)   If the employee has attended a conference or training in
conjunction with the travel, the employee is required to submit a detailed
program agenda for per diem meal reimbursement.
      (5)   Employees may submit and receive reimbursement for a group meal
receipt for more than one employee if the dining establishment is unable or
unwilling to provide individual checks; provided that the total cost of the
meal does not exceed the total allowable per diems for all the participating
employees. An employee submitting a group meal receipt will follow the
procedures required in §§
36.100 through
36.108 for reimbursement on an expense report or the use of a city credit card
policy in §
36.102 when using a city credit card for documentation of the expense and will
additionally state on the receipt that the receipt is for a group meal and the
name of each participating employee. Employees covered by a group meal receipt
will not be eligible for per diem reimbursement for that meal.
   (F)   The city will reimburse employees for the following expenses relating
to parking.
      (1)   An employee will be reimbursed for parking at hotels or overnight
lodging accommodation for city-related meetings or in conjunction with business
travel for the city. Employees will only be reimbursed for standard hotel
parking rates unless the option is not available. Employees electing for valet
parking will only be reimbursed up to an amount equal to the standard parking
rates applicable at the hotel.
      (2)   All other business-related parking fees are reimbursable upon the
submission of a valid receipt in accordance with the employee expense reports
and reimbursement policy in §
36.101.
   (G)   Employees may be reimbursed for taxis, ride-sharing services,
shuttles, public transportation and rapid transit used for business-related
transportation. Employees may be reimbursed for the payment of gratuities for
taxi drivers up to a maximum of 20% of the total fare. The employee will submit
a receipt in accordance with the employee expense reports and reimbursement
policy in §
36.101.
   (H)   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this policy, gratuities
related to employee travel will not be a reimbursable expense.
   (I)   The city will not reimburse or pay for the travel of an employee’s
family member or other guest. When a family member or other guest joins an
employee on business-related travel, the employee or the guest is responsible
for paying all travel costs including airfare and meals.
   (J)   Except for the travel-related expenses outlined in this policy, all
other travel-related expenses are deemed non-reimbursable unless approved in
writing by the Mayor and accounted for in the city budget. An employee will
submit his or her travel-related expenses for reimbursement on an Expense
Report Form within 15 days after the end of the month in which the travel
expenses were incurred as provided in §§
36.100 through
36.108.
   (K)   In the case of extreme financial hardship, an advance for overnight
travel may be granted to an employee by the Mayor. The request will be made by
the employee in writing with enough time to approve the request and process an
advance check. An employee who has received a travel advance must deduct the
total amount of the advances from the total reimbursement request when
submitting an expense report detailing expenditures. If the amount of the
advance exceeds the total reimbursable expenditures, the employee will pay the
difference back to the city.
§ 36.104 REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES RELATED TO OFFICIAL CITY BUSINESS.
   (A)   City officers or employees receiving prior approval from the Mayor
will be reimbursed for reasonable business expenses incurred while conducting
official city business. Examples of official city business include, but are not
limited to, situations where individuals present are representing the city or
if the individual’s attendance has been requested by the city. The individual
seeking reimbursement will be responsible for using good judgment to ensure the
expenses incurred are budgetarily sound and are compatible with the goodwill of
the city.
   (B)   The Mayor will have the authority to approve meal expenses for a new
employee as part of the new employee’s orientation and other discretionary
employee meal functions as appropriate to recognize extraordinary work effort
and as set out in the city budget.
   (C)   Receipts detailing the business purpose, date, location, amount and
persons present must be submitted with the expense report as provided under the
employee expense reports and reimbursement policy in §
36.101 or if a city credit card is used as provided under the use of a city
credit card policy in §
36.102. This information will be written on the front or back of the receipt
and on the expense report.
   (D)   In the event the receipt is for reimbursement of a meal, an itemized
receipt will be submitted, and the gratuity will not exceed 20% of the cost.
§ 36.105 ALCOHOL REIMBURSEMENT POLICY.
   No reimbursement will be made for alcoholic beverages.
§ 36.106 CONTRACT REVIEW AND EXECUTION.
   (A)   All written contracts or contract renewals will be reviewed by the
City Attorney or his or her designee before execution.
   (B)   Approval from the Mayor in accordance with the city budget and
specifications as set by the City Council is required prior to requesting the
City Attorney to draft a contract on behalf of the city.
   (C)   The City Clerk will provide a copy of the contract or the information
necessary for drafting of the contract to the City Attorney or his or her
designee as soon as possible to expedite the review or drafting process.
   (D)   All contracts made on behalf of the city will be signed by the Mayor.
   (E)   A copy of all executed contracts must be provided to the City Attorney
and the City Clerk for tracking and filing purposes unless other arrangements
have been made.
§ 36.107 CHECK HANDLING BY CITY EMPLOYEES.
   Any check or other form of payment received by a city employee will be
immediately presented to the City Clerk or his or her designee for deposit.
§ 36.108 INVOICES.
   (A)   All invoices received through the mail by the City Clerk will be
routed to the Mayor for approval in accordance with the city budget.
   (B)   No employee may give final approval for expenditures directly relating
to themselves. All such expenses regardless of the dollar amount must be
approved by the employee’s immediate supervisor or by the Mayor.
   (C)   Accounts payable checks will be cut weekly. The City Clerk or his or
her designee will review all check run reports prior to the release of checks.
All checks will require two signatures.
   (D)   Invoices received for payment will be paid in accordance with the
terms stated on the invoice or by the negotiated agreement/contract.
CLASSIFICATION AND COMPENSATION
§ 36.120 EMPLOYMENT TYPES AND CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   As used in this handbook, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE. An employee who is normally scheduled and expected to
work a minimum of 40 hours each workweek on a regularly scheduled basis.
      PART-TIME EMPLOYEE. An employee who is normally scheduled and expected to
work less than 40 hours in a single workweek and for retirement purposes
averages less than 100 hours a month in a calendar or fiscal year.
      SEASONAL EMPLOYEE. An employee hired in a position that is temporary in
duration and whose position coincides with a particular season or seasons of
the year and which may recur regularly from year to year. The time period of
employment will not exceed nine months.
      TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE. An employee who is hired and works for a definite
period of time. Generally, a TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE will be employed for a period
of time not to exceed nine months and the position is not renewable.
   (B)   Employees occupying full-time positions will be entitled to benefits
provided by the city. All other categories of employment will not be entitled
to benefits except those required by state or federal laws unless recommended
by the Mayor and approved by the City Council.
   (C)   (1)   The city designates all employment positions as either “exempt”
or “nonexempt” based on applicable federal and state laws and regulations. The
classifications are for the purpose of determining whether overtime
compensation is due to the employee for any time worked in excess of 40 hours
in a single workweek. Classifications of positions are reviewed by the Mayor in
consultation with the City Attorney at the time of position creation or
modification and on an annual basis to ensure legal compliance.
      (2)   As used in this handbook, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         EXEMPT EMPLOYEE. A salaried employee in a position whose duties and
responsibilities render the employee exempt from the overtime requirements of
the FLSA and state wage and hour laws. An EXEMPT EMPLOYEE is not eligible for
additional compensation for working in excess of 40 hours in a workweek under
the city’s overtime policy established in §§
36.120 through
36.130.
         NONEXEMPT EMPLOYEE. An employee in a position whose duties and
responsibilities require overtime compensation for any time worked in excess of
40 hours in any workweek pursuant to the Fair Labor Standards Act (FSLA) and
state wage and hour laws. The additional overtime compensation for nonexempt
employees is calculated under the city’s overtime policy established in §§
36.120 through
36.130.
§ 36.121 FISCAL YEAR.
   The city’s fiscal year is the period from July 1 to June 30.
§ 36.122 OFFICIAL WORKWEEK.
   (A)   The official workweek for each department will begin at 12:01 a.m. on
Monday and end at 12:00 a.m. Sunday.
   (B)   The official workweek may be changed at any time but not to avoid
overtime requirements.
§ 36.123 OVERTIME.
   (A)   OVERTIME means any time actually worked by a nonexempt employee in
excess of 40 hours in any single workweek. In addition, if a nonexempt employee
works seven days in any one workweek and works over 40 hours in those seven
days, all hours worked on the seventh day are at time and one-half. For
purposes of this section, WORKWEEK is defined in this handbook.
   (B)   Time off with pay such as holiday hours, vacation and sick leave hours
are not included in the calculations for overtime purposes.
   (C)   The city is required under the FLSA and state wage and hour laws to
pay overtime wages to a nonexempt employee if the employee works more than 40
hours in a single workweek. Overtime wages will be calculated at a rate of one
and one-half times the employee’s regular hourly rate of pay.
   (D)   If possible, nonexempt employees must be authorized orally or in
writing by the employee’s supervisor prior to the employee’s performance of any
work that would result in overtime. The employee will verify that his or her
time record accurately reflects any overtime worked as required in §§
36.120 through
36.130. Any employee who works overtime without prior authorization or fails to
properly report overtime work will be subject to disciplinary action.
   (E)   The Mayor and the employee’s supervisor may require any nonexempt
employee to take time off during any workweek that the employee has worked or
will work more than 40 hours to minimize overtime costs.
   (F)   Exempt employees are not eligible for overtime compensation.
§ 36.124 WORK PERFORMED BY NONEXEMPT EMPLOYEES OUTSIDE OF NORMAL WORKING HOURS.
   (A)   A nonexempt employee will not perform any work outside of his or her
normal work hours unless the work has been approved in advance by his or her
supervisor. In addition to all time the employee is required to be on the work
premises or at an assigned work location. WORK also means any effort whether
physical or mental exerted by the employee for the benefit of the city,
including, but not limited to, travel time to and from an off-site work
location and any time spent by the employee using the phone, emailing, text
messaging or other electronic communications for the purposes of the city
regardless of the time of day or the location where such effort is expended.
   (B)   Under both federal and state law, a nonexempt employee will be
compensated for all work that he or she performs for the city. Any work
performed, including work performed outside of normal working hours by a
nonexempt employee in a single workweek that results in overtime, will be
governed by the overtime policy within this handbook. All nonexempt employees
will keep track of any time spent working outside of their normal working hours
and report that time in accordance with this handbook.
   (C)   A nonexempt employee that has the service of an electronic device paid
for by the city as allowed by the mobile telephones and communication devices
policy within this handbook, with the explicit expectation for it to be used
outside of normal working hours on an ongoing basis, will communicate each
workweek with his or her supervisor if the inclusion of such time will result
or appears it could result in overtime so that appropriate action may be taken
to avoid overtime if possible.
   (D)   No employee will be required, encouraged or expected to work OFF THE
CLOCK, which is defined as not tracking or reporting time worked. If any
employee has been required to work “off the clock,” he or she will immediately
report it to the Mayor. Any supervisor that has required or is attempting to
require “off the clock” work will be subject to disciplinary action.
§ 36.125 ON-CALL EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   As a condition of employment, employees will agree to report within a
reasonable period if requested during a period of emergency. If an employee is
called to report to work either after normal working hours or before normal
working hours, the employee will be paid at the regular rate of pay for actual
time worked.
   (B)   Employees in some departments may be required to be on call in the
event of emergencies. Each department will establish a method of compensation
for the period.
   (C)   Employees who are on call must adhere to all city policies, including
the vehicle use policy in §
36.079 and the drug- and alcohol-free workplace policy in §
36.066.
§ 36.126 WORK-RELATED TRAINING AND TRAVEL TIME.
   (A)   Time spent by employees commuting back and forth from home to the
workplace is not considered hours worked and is not compensable.
   (B)   Employees who travel as part of their principal work activity,
including travel time from job site to job site during the workday, will be
considered hours worked.
   (C)   (1)   Employees who travel when that travel is required by the city,
i.e., work-related training away from home.
      (2)   Time spent by employees at meetings, lectures, training, travel
time or other similar activities will be counted as hours worked if all the
following criteria are met:
         (a)   Attendance is required by the city;
         (b)   The course, training or meeting is directly related to the
employee’s job; and
         (c)   The employee performs productive work during such attendance.
   (D)   Any questions regarding this policy should be directed to the City
Clerk.
§ 36.127 BASE SALARY AND SALARY ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The base salary for each employee is determined in accordance with the
pay and classification ordinance created by the City Council. The Mayor will be
responsible for administering, evaluating and establishing compensation for all
employees.
   (B)   The city employee compensation program will be operated under the
following conditions.
      (1)   In its effort to ensure fair pay for all its employees, the city
periodically adjusts base salaries and the salary ranges under its pay and
classification ordinance based upon professional market studies and pay
analysis. The city may make annual market or cost-of-living adjustments to the
compensation of employees depending upon the availability of funds in the city
budget.
      (2)   In addition to the pay analysis, other factors for establishing
employee pay under the compensation program include, among other things, the
skill and effort necessary for efficient and effective job performance; the
quality and quantity of actual job performance; the degree of responsibility
such performance demands; the conditions under which the job is performed; the
employee’s experience; length of employment; the employee’s educational and
professional achievements, including licensure and certifications; and
commensurate pay for similar jobs in the marketplace.
§ 36.128 PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS.
   (A)   The city will make all legally required deductions from an employee’s
gross pay in accordance
with applicable legal requirements, including:
      (1)   Federal and state income taxes;
      (2)   Social Security/Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) taxes;
and
      (3)   Deductions required by wage garnishment or child support orders.
   (B)   The city may also deduct from an employee’s pay his or her portion of
insurance premiums and voluntary contributions.
   (C)   Employees may request voluntary deductions be made from his or her
gross pay such as contributions to optional retirement plans. The employee will
obtain the appropriate form to request voluntary deductions from the City
Clerk.
   (D)   When the city must rely on information provided by the employee in
order to make any legally required deduction, it is the sole responsibility of
the employee to provide accurate and timely information to the city.
   (E)   In accordance with the FLSA, the city prohibits improper deductions
from the pay of exempt employees and will reimburse employees for any improper
deduction. When an exempt employee has exhausted all paid leave, the city may
deduct for absences of one or more full days for leave related to sickness,
disability, unpaid disciplinary suspensions or for other personal reasons. In
addition, the city may make either full- or partial-day deductions from the pay
of an exempt employee during the first or the last week of employment when only
part of the week is worked by the employee. Any exempt employee who believes
that an improper pay deduction has been made will immediately file a written
complaint with the City Clerk setting forth the dates, amounts, reasons and any
other information for the pay deduction. The City Clerk, along with the Mayor,
will take immediate action to investigate the issue and if found to be an
improper deduction, will cause the employee to be compensated for the improper
deduction within two pay periods from the date the written complaint was filed.
   (F)   No other deductions will be made.
   (G)   All deductions from an employee’s pay will be listed on his or her pay
stub. If an employee has questions about any deductions from his or her pay or
if he or she believes improper deductions have been made from his or her pay,
he or she must immediately report his or her concern to the City Clerk.
§ 36.129 TIME RECORDS.
   (A)   Time records will be kept on all nonexempt employees to facilitate the
city’s compliance with overtime pay requirements. Nonexempt employees will
submit time records. The time record will reflect a single pay period
consisting of two workweeks. Time must be logged as the total number of hours
actually worked each day excluding meal periods. Any vacation, sick, comp leave
time or other paid leave time used by the employee must be recorded on the time
record. Time records must be completed and submitted to the employee’s
supervisor no later than the Monday immediately following the end of the pay
period on the preceding Thursday. Supervisors will review and approve or
disapprove time records in a timely manner.
   (B)   Except for the immediate supervisor of the employee, all employees are
forbidden from entering any information on another employee’s time record. An
employee will not falsify information on his or her own time record. Employees
found to have violated this policy will be subject to discipline up to and
including discharge. Any errors discovered in an employee’s time record will be
reported immediately to the employee’s immediate supervisor who will determine
the manner and method of correcting legitimate errors.
§ 36.130 UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION INSURANCE.
   Employees may be eligible for unemployment benefits upon termination of
service with the city. Unemployment rights, benefits and eligibility are
governed by state law and can be explained by the state unemployment office.
Unemployment compensation insurance premiums are paid for entirely by the city.
HEALTH, RETIREMENT AND OTHER BENEFITS
§ 36.145 LIMITATIONS OF COVERAGE.
   All insurance benefit coverage stated in the city’s employee handbook are
subject to plan document restrictions if applicable.
§ 36.146 HEALTH INSURANCE.
   (A)   All full-time employees are eligible for group health insurance for
themselves and their dependents. Dependents are defined in the certificate of
coverage. The effective date of coverage will be the first day of the month
following the first day of employment.
   (B)   The city may provide coverage for employees and their dependents up to
a maximum amount as determined by the city and reflected in the annual budget.
Specific information regarding health insurance plans available to employees
should be obtained from the City Clerk.
   (C)   The city complies with state regulations under the State Continuation
Coverage and any additional amendments designed to provide employees and
eligible dependents with the opportunity to continue health insurance coverage
at group rates, where the coverage would otherwise cease such as upon
termination of employment, death of the employee, divorce or a child ceases to
be a qualified beneficiary. The premium for this continuation coverage will be
the sole responsibility of the employee or dependent unless otherwise provided
for by law. Coverage is not automatic and employees and/or their eligible
dependents must make an affirmative election before coverage will begin. More
detailed information regarding the continuation of health insurance coverage
under State Continuation Coverage may be obtained by going to the U.S.
Department of Labor (USDOL) website at:
 
https://insurance.ky.gov/ppc/documents/statecontinuationcoverage012612.pdf
 
§ 36.147 DENTAL INSURANCE.
   All full-time employees may be eligible for dental insurance for themselves
and their dependents. Specific information about the city’s dental insurance
plan is available from the City Clerk.
§ 36.148 VISION INSURANCE.
   All full-time employees may be eligible for vision insurance for themselves
and their dependents. Specific information about the city’s vision insurance
plan is available from the City Clerk.
§ 36.149 LIFE AND DISABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   All full-time employees may be provided with life insurance and long-
term disability insurance coverage.
   (B)   Life insurance and long-term disability insurance coverage will be in
the amount approved by the City Council as reflected in the annual budget.
Specific information about the city’s life and disability insurance plans is
available from the City Clerk.
§ 36.150 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (EAP).
   (A)   The city will provide confidential and voluntary assistance through
its EAP to all employees and their family members who may be faced with dynamic
challenges of financial concerns, legal issues, alcohol or drug problems,
relationship problems, illness of a family member, emotional worries, childcare
problems and the like. For the welfare of the employees as well as effective
business operations, the city encourages its employees to take advantage of
this valuable benefit of employment with the city.
   (B)   Employees and their family members can refer themselves to the EAP.
The program may be reached 24 hours a day on weekdays and weekends.
   (C)   EAP counselors are available to meet with employees or family members
to assess a problem and develop a plan for resolution. The counselors may
suggest a referral to an outside resource such as a therapist, agency,
physician, treatment facility or other professional that would be appropriate
to assist in resolving the problem or situation. Where an employee may need
information, a referral or suggestion may be given over the telephone. There is
no charge for employees or their families to use the EAP.
   (D)   The EAP counselors will make every effort to coordinate referral for
ongoing treatment with the employee’s health insurance coverage and their
ability to pay for the ongoing treatment. Any time needed for illness-related
appointments made by the EAP requires use of sick, vacation or personal time on
the same basis that it is granted for other health issues.
   (E)   When an employee’s job performance or attendance is unsatisfactory or
there appears to be signs of other problems during the workday, the supervisor
should counsel the employee in consultation with the City Clerk or his or her
designee with an end toward resolving the situation. If the employee appears to
be unwilling or unable to correct the situation, the employee may be referred
to the EAP to assist in the resolution of the problem. Depending on the
situation, the employee may accept or refuse participation in the EAP. However,
there may be situations where continued employment with the city may be
contingent upon the employee calling the EAP for assistance.
   (F)   Participation in the EAP does not jeopardize job security or
promotional opportunities. However, it does not excuse the employee from
following the city policies and procedures or meeting required standards for
satisfactory job performance except where specific accommodations are required
by law.
   (G)   All contact between an employee and the EAP is held strictly
confidential. In cases where an employee’s continued employment is contingent
upon calling the EAP, the EAP counselor will only verify whether the employee
has contacted the EAP, if ongoing treatment is necessary, and that the employee
is following through on the treatment.
§ 36.151 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The city pays the entire amount of the workers’ compensation insurance
premium providing benefits to employees who experience injury or illness in
connection with employment. Eligibility begins on the first day of employment.
Workers’ compensation benefit entitlements are governed by KRS Chapter 342. If
employees have questions concerning their rights or benefit amounts, they
should contact the City Clerk.
   (B)   Unless extenuating circumstances make it impossible or impractical, an
employee who is injured or becomes ill in connection with employment,
regardless of the severity of the injury, will immediately notify his or her
immediate supervisor and/or the City Clerk who will see to necessary medical
attention and assist in the completion of any required reports. In any case of
serious injury, employees are required to receive prompt medical attention by a
physician authorized under the city’s designated workers’ compensation plan.
Employees and supervisors will contact the City Clerk to report all work-
related accidents and injuries. The city will follow the OSH Injury and Illness
Reporting in Kentucky requirements found in Appendix A.
   (C)   Except in the case of serious illness or injury, an employee must also
call the “company nurse” on the injury hotline at 855-339-1889. More
information on this program can be found in the reporting work-related
accidents policy in §
36.064.
   (D)   Employees receiving workers’ compensation for job-related injuries or
disease may not use sick and/or vacation leave to supplement their regular rate
of pay.
   (E)   After three months, the employee will only receive workers’
compensation benefits and the employee may, subject to the terms and conditions
of the specific plan, continue health, life and vision insurance coverage upon
payment by the employee of the applicable contribution or premium during the
period of the absence.
   (F)   Vacation and sick leave benefits will not continue to accrue while on
workers’ compensation leave.
   (G)   If the city has reasonable suspicion that the employee’s drug or
alcohol use may have been a factor in an injury while the employee is working
for the city, the employee will be subject to the post accident drug testing
policy found within the city’s drug- and alcohol-free workplace policy in §
36.066.
§ 36.152 RETURN-TO-WORK PROGRAM (RTW).
   (A)   It is the policy of the city, when possible, to modify work
assignments for a limited period to assist employees who are temporarily
restricted from performing their regularly assigned duties due to an on-the-job
injury. Note: This policy should not be construed as recognition that an
employee has a disability as defined by the ADA of 1990 and its amendments.
   (B)   This policy applies to all city employees.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EMPLOYMENT-RELATED INJURY. An injury or occupational disease which arises
from the course and scope of employment and is a compensable injury or illness
as defined under the State Workers’ Compensation Act.
      EVALUATING PHYSICIAN. In this policy, a doctor of medicine, osteopathic
medicine, optometry, dentistry, podiatry or chiropractic who is licensed and
authorized to practice within the scope of his or her license within the
commonwealth as defined in the State Workers’ Compensation Act.
      RETURN-TO-WORK (RTW) (MODIFIED-DUTY) POSITION. A temporary position to
which an employee is assigned when he or she is unable to return to his or her
regular position following an on-the-job injury or illness. The RTW POSITION
temporarily addresses the restrictions placed on an individual by an evaluating
physician.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the employer to inform the evaluating
physician and the claims adjuster of the employer’s RTW Program; to adhere to
the assigned restrictions/limitations for the specified period of time; to
maintain a positive attitude toward working within physical restrictions/
limitations; and to continue to seek and follow appropriate medical care
throughout the recovery period.
   (E)   It is the responsibility of the employer to review and evaluate work
alternatives for a temporary specified period of time as established by the
evaluating physician; to evaluate the job description and modify requirements
within the position to accommodate the employee to the assigned restrictions;
to monitor the injured employee to ensure work performed is within the assigned
restrictions; and to continue to review and adjust job assignments as the
medical condition improves and restrictions change until the final goal of
either release to full duty or maximum medical improvement (MMI) is achieved.
   (F)   It is the responsibility of the evaluating physician to assign
specific temporary restrictions for a specified period of time; to review and
adjust assigned restrictions at each evaluation; and to maintain beneficial and
appropriate medical care and treatment with the goal of moving the injured
worker to full duty release or MMI.
   (G)   It is the responsibility of the claims adjuster to obtain specific
temporary restrictions/limitations for a specified period of time from the
evaluating physician after each evaluation; to communicate verbal and written
restrictions to the designated employer contact; and to work effectively with
the injured employee, employer and physician to reach the goal of returning
employee to gainful employment.
   (H)   To be eligible for participation in the RTW program, an employee must
have a written statement from the designated treating physician stating that he
or she is:
      (1)   Temporarily unable to perform his or her essential duties following
an employment-related injury or illness; and
      (2)   Capable of carrying out work of a lighter or modified nature from
his or her regular duties and he or she is expected to return to his or her
regular duties within 90 calendar days.
   (I)   Once notified of an on-the-job injury or illness and the injury has
been reported to the employer’s workers’ compensation carrier, the employer
will inform the employee in writing of the RTW program.
   (J)   The employee must be seen and evaluated by a physician to determine if
the employee is able to return to work and if so, with or without restrictions.
   (K)   Prior to the evaluation or as soon thereafter, the employer must
inform the evaluating physician of the RTW program and provide them with a copy
of the employee’s regular job description that identifies the essential job
functions and its requirements.
   (L)   When the employee can return to work with restrictions, the employee’s
evaluating physician must complete a report indicating the specific
restrictions and the duration of those restrictions. Clarification regarding
temporary restrictions may be requested of the evaluating physician.
   (M)   Taking into consideration the information provided by the evaluating
physician, the Mayor, with assistance from the City Attorney, will determine if
a temporary modified-duty assignment can be offered. There may be instances in
which the city will not be able to offer a modified-duty assignment.
   (N)   If the employee’s regular department is unable to meet the employee’s
need for the modified-duty position, the employee’s department is responsible
for payment of the employee’s salary and benefits while performing a modified-
duty position in a different department which has been able to meet the
employee’s need for modified duty.
   (O)   Income benefits otherwise payable to the employee by the workers’
compensation carrier for temporary total disability (TTD) during the period the
employee has returned to a modified-duty position will be offset by an amount
equal to the employee’s gross income minus applicable taxes paid by the
employer to the employee during the period of work in the modified-duty
position.
   (P)   The employer should use one of the two following compensation
arrangements.
      (1)   There will be no adjustment in the employee’s normal compensation.
The salary and benefits of the employee will remain the responsibility of the
original employing department, including during any period of temporary
placement external to the department.
      (2)   In most cases, there will not be an adjustment in the compensation
of the employee that is placed in a modified-duty position. However, the
employee placed in a modified-duty position will be paid a salary that is
equivalent to the salary of other employees holding the same position. If that
salary is less than his or her normal salary, then he or she will be paid at
least what the maximum weekly benefit would be for his or her regular salary as
defined by the State Workers’ Compensation Act.
   (Q)   (1)   Once the employee has been approved to participate in the RTW
program, the Mayor must provide a return-to-work letter.
      (2)   This letter will include:
         (a)   The position offered;
         (b)   The location and duties of the position offered;
         (c)   The wages and schedule of the position offered;
         (d)   The duration of the temporary work assignment;
         (e)   A statement that the employer is knowledgeable about and will
abide by the limitations under which the treating physician has authorized the
return to work; and
         (f)   A statement acknowledging that the employee will or will not
accept the modified duty and this must be returned to the employer.
   (R)   An employee may choose to accept or refuse the return-to-work offer.
Rejection of the job could result in suspension of income benefits under
workers’ compensation insurance. Any acknowledgment received by the employer
that the employee has refused the return-to-work offer will be sent by the
employer to the claims adjuster.
   (S)   Employees do not waive any rights to workers’ compensation benefits by
participating in the RTW program. Employees participating in the RTW program
will continue to be covered by the Workers’ Compensation Act for reasonable and
necessary medical expenses and disability benefits related to the injury or
illness.
   (T)   The maximum length of a return-to-work with modified-duty offer will
be 90 calendar days. The duration of approved time will be based upon the
information provided by the employee’s evaluating treating physician.
   (U)   An employee who is unable to return to his or her regularly assigned
duties at the end of the modified duty assignment and who remains with
temporary restrictions which will prevent them from returning to his or her
preinjury position will begin to receive TTD benefits through the workers’
compensation program. If the restrictions are permanent and will not allow the
employee to return to his or her preinjury position, then the employee may be
eligible to request a leave of absence pursuant to the employer policies or an
accommodation pursuant to the ADA policy addressed within §
36.022. However, the employer can terminate the employee if leave of absence is
considered an undue hardship on the employer and no other ADA accommodation can
be made based on the employee’s restrictions.
   (V)   Employees may be required to attend an independent medical exam (IME)
to either clarify the continued restrictions or find that they have reached MMI
and permanent restrictions are assigned as determined by the evaluating
physician.
   (W)   The department has the option to approve or deny the leave of absence
request after considering the ADA. If leave without pay is denied and no
accommodation can be made under the ADA, employment with the city will be
terminated.
§ 36.153 RETIREMENT PLAN AND SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   Employees who work in a regular full-time position must be enrolled in
the State Retirement Systems/State Public Pension Authority (KPPA). City
employees are covered under the County Employees Retirement System (CERS)
portion of the plan. Regular part-time employees must also be covered if they
average 100 or more hours of work per month over a calendar or fiscal year,
including employees who work a total of more than 100 hours per month in two or
more positions with employers under the same retirement system.
   (B)   The retirement plan is a qualified public defined benefit plan and was
established under I.R.C. § 401(a). A defined benefit plan pays benefits based
upon a formula rather than on an account balance. The formula used to compute
CERS benefits provides participating members with a guaranteed lifetime payment
at retirement based on beginning participation date, the number of years of
service, average salary and a multiplying factor.
   (C)   Employees and the city contribute to the plan. The percentage of
contribution may change annually and is based on hazardous and nonhazardous
positions. The contribution amount is set by the commonwealth. For more
information about the KPPA, contact the City Clerk, the KPPA via their website
(https://kyret.ky.gov) or by phone at 800-928-4646.
   (D)   The city participates in the federal social security program and will
contribute a percentage of salary to the extent required by law to the Social
Security Administration for each employee.
§ 36.154 STATE PUBLIC EMPLOYEE’S DEFERRED COMPENSATION.
   The city participates in the state public employee’s deferred compensation
plan. Employees have the ability to choose from qualified plans and can defer a
portion of their salary until future years. The city does not match
contributions to this plan on behalf of the employee. Participation in the plan
is optional and participants in the plan are allowed to choose the investments
for their deferrals from various fund types offered under the plan. For more
information about state deferred compensation plans, contact the City Clerk or
the state deferred compensation website:
 
https://www.kentuckyplans.com/iApp/tcm/kentuckyplans/about/index.jsp
 
§ 36.155 LONGEVITY AWARDS.
   (A)   In order to recognize the achievements and loyalty of its employees,
it is the policy of the city to give length of service awards to its employees
by the end of the calendar year subject to budget approval.
      (1)   Length of service awards approved in the budget will be paid to
full-time employees in December as follows:
         (a)   One to five years: $75;
         (b)   Six to ten years: $100; and
         (c)   Eleven plus years: $125.
      (2)   Length of service awards approved in the budget will be paid to
part-time employees in December as follows:
         (a)   One to five years: $40;
         (b)   Six to ten years: $50; and
         (c)   Eleven plus years: $60.
   (B)   Years of service will be based on the number of years of service as of
December 1 of each year as of the employee’s most recent hire date.
   (C)   Awards given will be subject to all applicable taxes.
§ 36.156 PUBLIC SERVICE LOAN FORGIVENESS.
   (A)   If an employee has a federal direct loan, including direct
consolidation loans, he or she may be eligible for public service loan
forgiveness, also known as PSLF.
   (B)   If an employee makes 120 qualifying monthly payments under a
qualifying repayment plan while serving in the military or employed at a
government or nonprofit entity, the employee may be eligible to get the balance
of his or her loans forgiven.
   (C)   For additional information see the following link:
 
https://studentaid.gov/manage-loans/forgiveness cancellation/public-service
 
§ 36.157 PROFESSIONAL MEMBERSHIPS, TRAINING, LICENSING AND CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Certain positions of employment within the city require professional
membership, licensure and certification. In general, the city will cover all
costs of membership, training, examination or renewal of license and
certification that directly relate to the employee’s current position with the
city.
   (B)   Employees will notify their supervisor of any membership, training,
certification and license that may be covered under this policy by April 1 so
that appropriate steps can be taken to include these costs in the annual
departmental budget. An employee will not expect the city to pay or reimburse
the employee for the cost of any membership, training, examination, license or
certification unless it has been approved in advance by the employee’s
supervisor, the Mayor and included in the city budget.
   (C)   An employee’s supervisor will determine the relevancy of the
membership, training, examination, license or certification as it relates to
the employee’s current job functions or job functions that the employee is
expected to undertake in the foreseeable future.
PAID AND UNPAID LEAVES
§ 36.170 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   All full-time city employees will receive paid leave for the following
holidays:
      (1)   New Year’s Day;
      (2)   Martin Luther King Day;
      (3)   President’s Day;
      (4)   Memorial Day;
      (5)   Juneteenth;
      (6)   Independence Day;
      (7)   Labor Day;
      (8)   Veterans Day;
      (9)   Thanksgiving Day;
      (10)   Day after Thanksgiving;
      (11)   Christmas Eve;
      (12)   Christmas Day; and
      (13)   New Year’s Eve.
   (B)   Unless otherwise designated by the City Council, paid holidays will be
observed on the date of their actual occurrence. If the holiday falls on a
Saturday, the holiday will be observed on the preceding Friday. If the holiday
falls on a Sunday, the holiday will be observed on the following Monday.
   (C)   Any employee who is required to work on the actual holiday will be
paid for all hours worked in addition to eight hours of holiday pay.
§ 36.171 VACATION LEAVE.
   (A)   All full-time employees will receive paid vacation leave. Part-time
employees, temporary employees and seasonal employees will not be eligible for
paid vacation leave. Vacation leave will be granted to an employee each
calendar year on the following basis:
      (1)   A full-time employee will receive ten days per year from the
beginning of employment with the city through the end of the fifth year of
employment;
      (2)   A full-time employee will receive 15 days per year for the sixth
through the end of the tenth year of employment; and
      (3)   A full-time employee will receive 20 days per year for the elventh
year of employment and each year of employment thereafter.
   (B)   Vacation leave begins to accrue on the first day of employment. For
periods of less than one month, such as at the beginning or end of employment,
vacation leave will accrue on a pro rata basis in minimum increments of one-
fourth hour.
   (C)   On the employee’s anniversary date of every year, each employee’s
vacation leave account will be credited with the full amount of the annual
vacation leave due the employee for the ensuing year. Each pay period, the
employee’s vacation leave account will be debited for vacation leave used by
the employee during the preceding period. If an employee ceases to be employed
during the year, the employee must repay to the city the amount of vacation
leave used in excess of the leave that has accrued up to the date of
termination. If possible, the value of the excess leave will be deducted from
the employee’s final paycheck.
   (D)   An employee will receive advance approval from his or her immediate
supervisor prior to the use of any vacation leave time by the submission of an
Absentee Request (HR Form 06) in Appendix A in accordance with §§
36.170 through
36.185. Requests for use of vacation leave time should be made as soon as
possible to ensure minimum disruption to the department and the organizational
work schedule and workflow.
   (E)   An employee may carry over a maximum of five days of accrued and
unused vacation leave time to the next calendar year.
   (F)   Upon termination of employment, an employee will be paid for any
vested but unused vacation leave time up to 25 days. The employee will be
compensated at the regular hourly rate earned by the employee at the time of
the separation. The applicable hourly rate for both exempt and nonexempt
employees will be calculated as provided in §§
36.120 through
36.130.
§ 36.172 PERSONAL LEAVE TIME.
   (A)   A full-time employee will receive one paid personal leave day each
year from the beginning of employment with the city through the end of tenth
year of employment. A full-time employee will receive two paid personal leave
days each year from the eleventh year of employment and each year thereafter.
Personal days may be used by the employee for any purpose.
   (B)   An employee will not accrue personal leave. All personal leave time
will expire at the end of the calendar year if not used.
   (C)   An employee will receive advance approval from his or her immediate
supervisor prior to the use of any personal leave time by the submission of an
Absentee Request Form in accordance with §§
36.170 through
36.185. Requests for use of personal leave time should be made as soon as
possible to ensure minimum disruption to the department and the organizational
work schedule and workflow.
   (D)   An employee will not receive compensation for any unused personal
leave time upon separation from employment.
§ 36.173 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   All full-time employees will receive paid sick leave each calendar
year in the amount of one day per month or 12 days per year. Part-time
employees, temporary employees and seasonal employees will not be eligible for
paid sick leave.
   (B)   Sick leave time begins to accrue on the first day of employment. For
periods of less than one month, such as at the beginning or end of employment,
sick leave will accrue on a pro rata basis in minimum increments of one-fourth
hour.
   (C)   Sick leave will be given on a monthly basis. Each pay period, the
employee’s sick leave account will be debited for sick leave used by the
employee during the preceding period. If an employee ceases to be employed
during the year, the employee must repay to the city the amount of sick leave
used in excess of the leave that has accrued up to the date of termination. If
possible, the value of the excess leave will be deducted from the employee’s
final paycheck.
   (D)   An employee may use sick leave for any one of the following reasons:
      (1)   To avoid jeopardizing the health of other employees;
      (2)   Illness, disability, medical condition or a medical or dental
appointment of the employee or a member of the employee’s immediate family
necessitating the employee’s presence. IMMEDIATE FAMILY will mean the
employee’s spouse, child, mother, father, grandchildren or other permanent
members of the employee’s household; or
      (3)   Because mental health is an integral part of overall wellness, the
city allows employees to take advantage of sick leave for occasional “mental
health days.”
   (E)   An employee using sick leave time will notify his or her immediate
supervisor as soon as possible of the need to use sick leave. For periods of
leave longer than one full day, the employee will notify his or her supervisor
of each separate day that leave will be used unless prior arrangements have
been made.
   (F)   Whenever an employee uses sick leave time, the employee will submit an
Absentee Request Form in accordance with §§
36.170 through
36.185. When possible, the employee will submit the Absentee Request Form in
advance of the leave. Otherwise, the employee will submit the Absentee Request
Form immediately upon return to work.
   (G)   A medical certification or physician’s statement will generally not be
required to return to work after the use of sick leave. However, an employee’s
supervisor may require medical certification or a physician’s statement when
there is a reasonable basis to believe the sick leave policy is being abused,
to certify that the employee can perform the essential functions of the job
without risking the safety of themselves or others or the employee’s length of
absence exceeds two full workdays.
   (H)   An employee may carry over all unused sick leave time to the next
calendar year.
   (I)   Employees retiring or voluntarily separating from the city will be
compensated for accumulated sick leave as described below: Payout of sick leave
for employees that the city considers as retiring from city service is subject
to the following limitations.
      (1)   Employees with less than five years of service will not be
compensated for accrued but unused sick hours.
      (2)   After five years of service, employees will be paid up to five days
of accrued but unused sick hours.
      (3)   After ten years of service, employees will be paid up to ten days
of accrued but unused sick hours.
      (4)   After 15 years of service, employees will be paid up to 15 days of
accrued but unused sick hours.
   (J)   Employees terminated from the city service are not eligible for the
payout of sick leave and no other payouts except as provided in the county
employees standard unused sick leave program will be provided.
   (K)   The applicable hourly rate for both exempt and nonexempt employees
will be calculated as provided in §§
36.170 through
36.185 and subject to all required deductions.
§ 36.174 FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (FMLA).
   The Federal FMLA applies to all public agencies. However, employees of
public agencies must meet all the requirements of eligibility, including the
requirement that the employer employs 50 or more employees for FMLA
eligibility. The city does not employ 50 or more employees at the time of
adoption of this policy, as such, employees are not currently eligible for
FMLA.
§ 36.175 MATERNITY AND PARENTAL LEAVE.
   (A)   The city recognizes that employees may need to be absent from work to
care for a newborn child or newly adopted or placement of a foster care child
(referred to as parental leave in this policy) or due to a pregnancy-related
condition (referred to as pregnancy leave in this policy). The city provides
pregnancy and parental leaves of absence to all eligible employees in
accordance with the Pregnancy Discrimination Act (PDA), ADA, State Pregnant
Workers Act and any applicable state law.
   (B)   The City Clerk is responsible for the administration of this policy.
If an employee has any questions regarding this policy or if he or she has
questions about pregnancy or parental leave that are not addressed in this
policy, he or she should contact the City Clerk.
   (C)   If an employee needs to take parental leave for the birth of his or
her child or to care for a newly adopted or foster care child, the employee
should provide advance notice to his or her supervisor or the City Clerk. When
possible, the employee should give at least 30 days’ notice of his or her
request for leave. If a 30-day notice is not possible because of medical
necessity or for other reasons, the employee should give as much advance notice
to the city as possible.
   (D)   Written notice is preferred but not required.
   (E)   If an employee is suffering from a pregnancy-related disability and
requires reasonable accommodation (which may include leave) for this purpose,
the employee should speak with his or her supervisor and/or the City Clerk to
discuss a reasonable accommodation. The employee may be required to submit
medical certification of his or her disability.
   (F)   All employees are eligible for two weeks of paid parental leave.
   (G)   During pregnancy and parental leave all benefits provided under an
employee benefit plan are governed by the terms and conditions of the
applicable employee benefit plan documents in accordance with applicable law.
For all other benefits, an employee on pregnancy or parental leave will receive
the same rights and benefits as employees on a paid leave of absence.
   (H)   The employee’s job will be held for him or her in accordance with
applicable law while he or she is on pregnancy or parental leave.
   (I)   If an employee is on pregnancy-related disability leave, when he or
she is able to return to work, he or she must submit a doctor’s certification
stating he or she is medically able to return to his or her normal duties. The
employee’s continued absence from work beyond his or her required disability
leave period (as determined by his or her physician) and exhaustion of all
other available leave may be deemed a voluntary abandonment of his or her job.
   (J)   Nothing in this policy requires the city to reemploy individuals who
are not eligible for reemployment rights under applicable law.
   (K)   The city prohibits and will not tolerate discrimination or retaliation
against any employee or applicant because of that person’s pregnancy or
parental leave. Specifically, no one will be denied employment, reemployment,
promotion, any other benefit of employment or be subjected to any adverse
employment action based on that person’s pregnancy or parental leave. In
addition, no one will be disciplined, intimidated or otherwise retaliated
against because that person exercised rights under this policy or applicable
law.
   (L)   The city is committed to enforcing this policy against discrimination
and retaliation. However, the effectiveness of the efforts depends on employees
telling the city about inappropriate workplace conduct. If employees feel that
they or someone else may have been subjected to conduct that violates this
policy, they should immediately report it. If employees do not report such
conduct, the city may not become aware of a possible violation of this policy
and may not be able to take appropriate corrective action.
§ 36.176 ADOPTION LEAVE.
   (A)   An employee adopting a child under the age of ten will be granted
reasonable personal leave that does not exceed six weeks.
   (B)   All other paid leave and benefits provided to employees who are birth
parents following the birth of a child within the maternity and parental leave
policy in §
36.175 will also be available to employees adopting a child under the age of
ten.
   (C)   This leave is not available to an adoption by fictive kin; stepparent;
stepsibling; blood relative, including a relative of a half-blood; first
cousin; aunt; uncle; nephew; niece and a person of a preceding generation as
denoted by prefixes of grand, great, great-great or foster parent who adopts a
foster child who is already in his or her care.
§ 36.177 CRITICAL INCIDENT LEAVE FOR POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A) (1)   Up to two working days of critical incident leave is provided to
police officers and firefighters immediately following an officer or
firefighter who is involved in an event resulting in a stressful impact that is
sufficient to overwhelm their usual coping strategies.
      (2)   These events may include:
         (a)   Officer involved shooting;
         (b)   Fire or vehicle crash resulting in serious injury or death;
         (c)   Being a victim of a felonious assault;
         (d)   Death of a partner or colleague;
         (e)   Death of someone in custody of the officer or that has been in
the medical care of a firefighter;
         (f)   Death of a child especially if the officer or firefighter has a
child similar in age; and
         (g)   Incident involving multiple deaths.
   (B)   A police officer or firefighter involved in a critical incident must
make the request for this leave from their supervisor, upon:
      (1)   The completion of that peace officer’s or firefighters shift
encompassing the critical incident; and
      (2)   When all necessary administrative procedures relating to a critical
incident have been completed.
   (C)   The leave provided under this policy will be paid to the officer or
firefighter at his or her normal rate of pay. Any leave beyond the two working
days will be unpaid; however, any additional time needed by the officer or
firefighter may be covered by any of his or her available accrued leave time.
   (D)   Whenever the use of critical incident leave is necessary, the employee
will provide advance notice to his or her supervisor and the employee will
submit an Absentee Request Form in accordance with §§
36.170 through
36.185. When possible, the employee will submit the Absentee Request Form in
advance of the leave. Otherwise, the employee will submit the Absentee Request
Form immediately upon return to work.
§ 36.178 PAID LEAVE FOR VOLUNTEER ACTIVITY.
   (A)   As an organization focused on the enhancement of the quality of life
in the city, the city encourages its employees to participate in and support
volunteer activities that improve and serve the city and the county. While the
city may sponsor events throughout the year where employees may collectively
volunteer during normal working hours, any full-time employee is eligible to
take paid leave for a maximum of eight hours per calendar year to volunteer
with a nonprofit organization or a government to participate in activities that
provide an opportunity for meaningful community engagement within the city and
county.
      (1)   Examples of activities that meet the purposes of this policy
include, but are not limited to, volunteering in disaster recovery, food banks
and kitchens, homeless shelters, community cleanup initiatives and involvement
on a nonprofit board of directors.
      (2)   Examples of activities that do not meet the purposes of this policy
and that will not be approved include, but are not limited to, involvement with
any partisan political activity, with organizations that discriminate based on
any protected class as outlined in this handbook, coaching a family member’s
sports team, attending a family member’s school functions or attendance at a
professional, religious or personal interest conference.
   (B)   An employee wishing to use the paid leave time provided by this policy
will submit a Volunteer Time Off/Blood Donation Request (HR Form 07) in
Appendix A to his or her supervisor. The leave request must be approved by the
employee’s supervisor prior to the employee’s use of time under this policy. A
supervisor will consult with the human resources officer and/or Mayor if the
employee’s selected activity is questionable as meeting the purposes of this
policy.
   (C)   An employee that has received prior approval for a request submitted
under this policy will report the leave time in accordance with this handbook.
   (D)   An employee will be credited with leave time under this policy on
January 1 of each year. A newly hired employee will not receive credit until
the first day of January occurring after he or she begins employment with the
city. All volunteer leave time will expire at the end of the calendar year if
not used. An employee will not receive compensation for any unused volunteer
activity leave time provided in this policy upon separation from employment.
§ 36.179 BLOOD DONATION LEAVE.
   (A)   The city recognizes the need for blood donation within our community
and encourages employees to donate. Employees who wish to donate whole blood
may receive four hours leave time with pay for the purpose of donating and
recovering from the donation, up to two times per calendar year for a total of
eight hours paid leave.
   (B)   An employee wishing to use the paid leave time provided by this policy
will submit a Volunteer Time Off/Blood Donation Request Form to his or her
supervisor. The leave request must be approved by the employee’s supervisor
prior to the employee’s use of time under this policy.
   (C)   The donation must occur during an employee’s scheduled work hours in
order to qualify for leave which does not include the lunch period. All
employees are permitted to donate blood at any licensed blood center certified
by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). All employees are required to submit
verification to their supervisor of blood donation or their deferral from the
blood center.
   (D)   An employee will be credited with leave time under this policy on
January 1 of each year. A newly hired employee will not receive credit until
the first day of January occurring after he or she begins employment with the
city. All blood donation leave time will expire at the end of the calendar year
if not used. An employee will not receive compensation for any unused blood
donation leave time provided in this policy upon separation from employment.
§ 36.180 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE.
   (A)   (1)   All full-time city employees will be eligible for paid
bereavement leave in the event of death in the employee’s immediate or extended
family.
      (2)   Bereavement leave will be granted on the following basis.
         (a)   An employee will be authorized for up to three days of paid
bereavement leave in the event of death in the employee’s immediate family. For
the purposes of this division (A)(2)(a), IMMEDIATE FAMILY will mean the
employee’s parents, grandparents, spouse, children (including in the case of a
miscarriage at any term of pregnancy), grandchildren, brothers and sisters in
any case and immediate in-laws.
         (b)   An employee will be authorized for paid bereavement leave for up
to one day in the event of death of an extended family member of the employee.
For the purposes of this division (A)(2)(b), “extended family member” will be
limited to cousins, nieces, nephews, aunts and uncles.
         (c)   An employee may be eligible for additional paid bereavement
leave for extenuating circumstances such as for traveling long distances and
making family arrangements. In addition, other special relationships may exist
where the employee may be eligible for additional bereavement leave. In these
instances, the employee should discuss the circumstance or the relationship
with the Mayor who will grant or deny such requests considering the workload,
the employee’s circumstances and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   Whenever the use of bereavement leave is necessary, the employee will
provide advance notice to his or her immediate supervisor, and the employee
will submit an Absentee Request Form in accordance with §§
36.170 through
36.185. When possible, the employee will submit the Absentee Request Form in
advance of the leave. Otherwise, the employee will submit the Absentee Request
Form immediately upon return to work.
§ 36.181 UNPAID LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   Upon exhaustion of all accrued paid leave time, any request for unpaid
leave will be submitted to the employee’s supervisor and the Mayor. The Mayor
and supervisor will decide whether to grant the unpaid leave request and other
terms of the leave depending upon the reasons for the requested leave and the
needs of the department and the city.
   (B)   If granted an unpaid leave of absence, an employee will not be
compensated and will not receive any other employee benefits. As such, the
employee must make an election as to state continuation coverage for group
health care for the employee as well as any qualified dependents. In addition,
the employee will be subject to the terms and conditions of the specific plan
to continue any optional benefits upon prepayment by the employee of the
applicable contribution or premium during the period of the absence. Any
failure by the employee to prepay any optional benefits may result in
termination of the benefit.
   (C)   Employees on unpaid leave will not accrue any vacation or sick leave
time during the unpaid absence.
§ 36.182 JURY DUTY AND COURT-ORDERED APPEARANCES.
   (A)   The city encourages employees to fulfill their obligation as citizens
when called to serve jury duty or to comply with a court or administrative
subpoena. An employee that is required to attend jury duty or comply with a
court or administrative subpoena during his or her regular working hours at the
city will be paid his or her full salary for the period of such service.
   (B)   An employee involved in litigation or court proceedings as a plaintiff
or petitioner and who is not appearing before the court because of a duly
issued subpoena will not be eligible for the paid leave provided under the
provisions of this policy but may be permitted to use annual or compensatory
leave time for such absences as provided in §§
36.170 through
36.185.
   (C)   The employee must provide a copy of the summons or subpoena to his or
her immediate supervisor as soon as possible after receiving such notice.
   (D)   The employee will submit an Absentee Request Form in accordance with
§§
36.170 through
36.185 showing the dates and times out of the office necessitated by the
employee’s service required by the court.
   (E)   Any employee excused by the court during his or her normal working
hours will contact his or her supervisor to determine if he or she will be
required to work the remainder of his or her normal work schedule.
§ 36.183 VOTING LEAVE.
   (A)   The city encourages its employees to vote on Election Day. To
facilitate efficient scheduling and management of the office workload, an
employee will request voting leave from the employee’s supervisor at least one
day in advance of the election date, or one day in advance of the date on which
the employee appears before the County Clerk to request an application for or
to execute an absentee ballot.
   (B)   The supervisor will grant a reasonable period of voting leave (not
less than four hours if specifically requested by the employee) for an employee
who is qualified to vote and who has requested voting leave in accordance with
this policy. The city will compensate the employee for the leave. The
supervisor will specify the hours during which the employee may be absent.
   (C)   Prior to using voting leave, the employee will submit an Absentee
Request Form in accordance with §§
36.170 through
36.185 showing the times the employee has been approved to be out of the office
for voting leave.
   (D)   An employee who requests and takes voting leave but who fails to vote
without an acceptable reason will be subject to disciplinary action.
§ 36.184 MILITARY LEAVE.
   (A)   The city will comply with the Uniformed Services Employment and
Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (USERRA) and the provisions of KRS 61.373
through 61.377 and KRS 61.394. USERRA grants military leave for employees, and
in most cases, reinstatement rights regardless of whether the service is
voluntary or involuntary.
   (B)   As the laws change or as interpretations of the laws change, military
leave benefits for city employees may change accordingly. No attempt is made by
this policy to cover all possible situations and circumstances that may arise
when an employee is ordered to active duty. Therefore, as military leave
situations arise, an employee should consult with his or her immediate
supervisor or the City Clerk for details regarding his or her military leave
rights as a city employee.
   (C)   Unless precluded by military necessity, an employee will provide
written notice to his or her immediate supervisor as soon as possible regarding
the need for military leave.
   (D)   In any one federal fiscal year (October 1 to September 30), all full-
time and part-time employees involved in military service for the United States
or the commonwealth are eligible, upon request of the employee, to be paid
their normal wages for a maximum of 21 calendar days while on military leave.
Employees will only be paid based on the days they would have been scheduled to
work if not for military leave. Any unused military leave in a federal fiscal
year will be carried over to the next year. Any unused military leave will
expire two years after it has accrued.
   (E)   An employee will be entitled to military leave without loss of time,
pay, regular leave, impairment of efficiency rating or any other employment
rights or benefits to which the employee is entitled, while:
      (1)   In the performance of duty or training in the service of a state or
of the United States under competent orders as specified in this section;
      (2)   Physically disabled as a result of an injury, illness or disease
incurred or aggravated in the line of duty while performing active-duty or
inactive-duty training;
      (3)   Entitled to incapacitation pay pursuant to 37 U.S.C. § 204; and
      (4)   Leave pursuant to divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) above will not exceed
six months unless approved by the employee’s appointing authority.
   (F)   Benefits in division (E) above include employer contributions that
would have been paid into CERS if the employee had not been on military leave.
Employer-provided CERS contributions will only be paid to KPPA if the employee
returns to work with the city upon an honorable discharge from the military.
   (G)   Employees called to active duty should fill out the Active-Duty
Military Leave Notification (HR Form 18) in Appendix A as soon as practicable.
§ 36.185 ABSENTEE REQUESTS.
   (A)   The Absentee Request Form is available to employees from the City
Clerk and in Appendix A. When this form is submitted by the employee, the form
will be sent directly to the employee’s immediate supervisor who will be
responsible for exercising managerial discretion in deciding whether to approve
or deny the leave request.
   (B)   Employees are required to submit an Absentee Request Form whenever any
type of leave is requested or taken as outlined in the policies contained in
this handbook. The employee is required to provide the date and time of the
leave. Employees are permitted to use any type of leave time in one-hour
increments.
   (C)   Whenever possible, employees are required to submit an Absentee
Request Form before the leave is taken. If it is impossible or impractical for
the employee to submit an Absentee Request Form prior to taking the leave, the
employee will submit the form immediately upon return to work. Any employee who
takes leave time and fails to submit an Absentee Request Form will be subject
to disciplinary action.
APPENDIX A: APPENDICES AND HR FORMS
Section
OSH Injury and Illness Reporting in Kentucky
HR Form 01 - Handbook Acknowledgment
HR Form 02 - Job Description Review and Acknowledgment
HR Form 03 - Background Check Release
HR Form 04 - Driver’s License Background Check Release
HR Form 05 - Drug- and Alcohol-Free Workplace Acknowledgment
HR Form 06 - Absentee Request
HR Form 07 - Volunteer Time Off/Blood Donation Request
HR Form 08 - Jury Duty Attendance
HR Form 09 - Travel, Meeting, and Training Report
HR Form 10 - Complaint Form
HR Form 11 - Expense Report
HR Form 12 - Missing Receipt Affidavit
HR Form 13 - Change in Personal Information
HR Form 14 - Disciplinary Form
HR Form 15 - Continuous Feedback
HR Form 16 - Outside Employment Request
HR Form 17 - Outside Employment Request for Police Officers
HR Form 18 - Active-Duty Military Leave Notification
OSH INJURY AND ILLNESS REPORTING IN KENTUCKY
REPORT TO THE KENTUCKY LABOR CABINET, DIVISION OF OSH COMPLIANCE AT
502.564.3070. IF AFTER HOURS, REPORT TO OSHA TOLL-FREE HOTLINE AT
1.800.321.0SHA (6742).
NOTE: The employer must speak to someone. Messages or faxes are not acceptable
to meet the reporting requirement.
HR FORM 01 – HANDBOOK ACKNOWLEDGMENT
 
I certify that I have received a copy of the City of Irvine Employee Handbook and have read and fully understand its contents. I have had an opportunity to ask my
supervisor or the management personnel any questions that I have about the policies contained in the handbook. I understand that failure to comply with the city’s
policies and rules may result in disciplinary action up to and including discharge.
 
I understand that the City of Irvine Employee Handbook is not an express or implied contract of employment and that my employment is at will and may be terminated at
any time by me or the city. No officer, manager, or other representative has any authority to enter into any agreement, oral or written, for employment for any
specified period of time, or to make any agreement contrary to the foregoing unless approved by action of the mayor, in accordance with the city budget.
 
I understand that the City of Irvine is an Equal Opportunity Employer. As outlined in the City of Irvine Employee Handbook, it is the city’s policy to afford equal
employment opportunity to all qualified persons regardless of race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic makeup, pregnancy,
childbirth, pregnancy/childbirth-related medical conditions, national origin, disability, veteran or family status, an individual’s status as a smoker or nonsmoker,
or any other status or condition protected by applicable local, state or federal laws, except where a bona fide occupational qualification applies. I understand any
questions about this policy should be directed to my supervisor or any supervisor or management staff.
 
I understand that the City of Irvine Employee Handbook is a guide for common working practices and procedures for the city and that the city reserves the right to
revise, terminate, or add to the employee handbook with or without notice at any time.
 
                                                                                   
Employee Name
 
                                                                                   
Employee Signature
 
                                                                                   
Date
 
HR FORM 02 – JOB DESCRIPTION REVIEW AND ACKNOWLEDGMENT
 
SupervisorEmployee
Discussed essential job functions.
Discussed additional job duties.
Discussed physical requirements.
_________
_________
                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                          
 
I certify that I have received a copy of the job description for my position as and have read and fully understand the requirements and expectations. I have discussed the contents of the job description with and have had an opportunity to ask
my supervisor or the management personnel questions. I further certify that I have the ability to meet the job requirements, including the physical requirements.
 
                                                                                   
Employee Name
 
                                                                                                             
Employee SignatureDate
 
 
                                                                                   
Supervisor Name
 
                                                                                                             
Supervisor SignatureDate
 
HR FORM 03 – BACKGROUND CHECK RELEASE
 
(1)I, , give the City of Irvine my permission to conduct a criminal background and/or credit check using my name and personal information.
 
(2)I understand the information given and received will be kept confidential and may affect an employment offer.
 
(3)I understand that a criminal conviction does not automatically disqualify me from employment since the nature of the offense, date, and the job for which I am applying is also considered. In addition, pursuant to KRS 335B.020, no person will be disqualified from public
employment solely because of a prior conviction of a crime, unless the crime for which they were convicted directly relates to the position of employment sought or as required for the position, i.e., police, fire, EMS.
 
 
 
Full Name
 
Maiden Name (if applicable)
 
Other Former Names (list all)
 
Birthday (MM/DD/YYY) / / Social Security Number - -
 
Driver’s License Number Issuing State
 
 
                                                                                                                                          
Applicant SignatureDate
 
HR FORM 04 – DRIVER’S LICENSE BACKGROUND CHECK RELEASE
 
CONFIDENTIAL
 
Based on the fact that I will need to drive a city-owned vehicle or my own vehicle on city business, I, , give the City of Irvine my permission to conduct a driver’s license background check using my name and personal information.
 
I understand the information given and received will be kept confidential and may affect the offer of employment. I also understand that if hired, a driver’s license background check will be done on a yearly basis for as long as driving a vehicle on city business is a part of
my job duties.
 
 
Full Name
 
Maiden Name (if applicable)
 
Other Former Names (list all)
 
Birthday (MM/DD/YYY) / / Social Security Number - -
 
Driver’s License Number Issuing State
 
 
                                                                                                                                          
Applicant SignatureDate
 
HR FORM 05 – DRUG- AND ALCOHOL-FREE WORKPLACE ACKNOWLEDGMENT
 
(1)The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession, or use of a
controlled substance is prohibited within the workplace of the City of Irvine.
(See Section 3 of the Drug- and Alcohol-Free Workplace Policy contained within
the handbook).
 
(2)An employee found to be abusing drugs, but not convicted of any drug statute
violation, will be subject to appropriate disciplinary action up to and including
termination or be required to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse
assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes. The employer is
not required to pay for this rehabilitation.
 
(3)Each employee is required as a condition of employment to abide by the terms
of paragraph (1) of this acknowledgment and notify the employer of any criminal
drug conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace no later than five
days after such conviction.
 
(4)The city will, within 30 days after receiving notice from an employee of a
conviction pursuant to paragraph (3), take appropriate disciplinary action
against such employee up to and including termination.
 
(5)The city also assures to make a good faith effort to maintain a drug-free
workplace through implementation of paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4).
 
 
 
CERTIFICATION AND ACKNOWLEDGMENT
 
 
I, do hereby certify that I have read and understand the City of Irvine’s Drug-
and Alcohol-Free Workplace Policy and have received a copy of the aforementioned
policy.
 
 
 
Employee Signature
 
 
 
Parent/Guardian Signature
(if employee is under 18 years of age)
 
 
Date
 
 
HR FORM 06 – ABSENTEE REQUEST
 
Date
 
 
Name
(Please print)
 
Type of Leave
 
Personal
 
Vacation
 
Sick
 
Other (Please explain, i.e., jury duty, bereavement)
 
                                                                                                                                                           
 
 
From To Total Hours Requested
Date and TimeDate and Time
 
 
Signed Approved
 
 
HR FORM 07 – VOLUNTEER TIME OFF/BLOOD DONATION REQUEST
 
Date of Request
 
 
Employee Name
 
 
Charitable Organization/Blood Center Information
 
Name
 
Address
 
Website
 
 
Date(s) and time(s) of requested leave
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
Total number of hours requested (not to exceed eight hours per calendar year).
 
Description of volunteer activity you would like to do within County OR indicate if this is for blood donation.
 
                                                                                                                                                                    
 
                                                                                                                                                                    
 
                                                                                                                                                                    
 
 
Employee Signature Date
 
 
Supervisor Signature Date Received
 
 
SUBMIT COMPLETED AND APPROVED FORM TO THE HUMAN RESOURCES OFFICER.
 
HR FORM 08 – JURY DUTY ATTENDANCE
 
Employee Name
 
Court
 
Week of / / To / /
 
        Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday
Time In                                 
Time Out                                
Initials                                
Jury Administrator Name
 
Jury Administrator Signature
 
I certify this to be an accurate reflection of my jury service for the
week listed above.
 
Employee Signature
 
 
HR FORM 09 – TRAVEL, MEETING AND TRAINING REQUEST
 
This form is to be filled out prior to the event.
Name
 
Supervisor Approval Mayor Approval
 
Department
 
Meeting Title Meeting Date
 
Meeting Location
 
Reason for Attendance Estimated Cost
 
Name of Spouse/Guest Attending
(City will not pay for spouse attendance.)
 
Does guest need to be registered for the conference? Yes No
 
Special Requirements
 
Hotel Request Yes Will make own reservations. (Must have mayor approval on
file.) No
 
Hotel other than conference hotel.
 
Arrival Date Departure Date
 
Choice of accommodation Single Double King Bed Smoking Non-Smoking
 
Guaranteed to city credit card, guest to pay own charges. The city will cover
room and tax only.
However, this must be requested at least five days prior to departure.
 
 
Travel Request
 
Flight Request Yes Will make own reservations. (Must have mayor approval on
file.) No
 
From (city/time) To (city/time)
 
Car Rental Yes (Must have mayor approval on file.) No
 
HR FORM 10 – COMPLAINT FORM
 
Employee Information
 
Name Job Title
 
Complaint Information
 
Date of Occurrence
 
Have you discussed this issue with your supervisor? Yes No
 
Date(s) of Discussion Supervisor’s Name
 
Issue of ComplaintList specific problem(s)/issue(s).
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
For clarification of the issues of your complaint, please provide statements regarding the unfavorable employment condition which is the subject of this complaint. Describe what happened, when and where this occurred, how your employment has been affected, and indicate names of others involved or who may have witnessed the
incident. Attach any supporting documentation.
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
List of persons with knowledge of problem(s).
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
My signature indicates that the information contained on this form and attachments to this form are true and factual to the best of my knowledge.
 
                                                                                                            
Employee SignatureDate
 
 
                                                                                                            
City Clerk SignatureDate Received
 
 
                                                                                                            
Mayor SignatureDate Received
 
 
HR FORM 11 – EXPENSE REPORT
Name
 
Department
 
Meeting Title Meeting Date
 
Meeting Location
 
Reason for Attendance
 
Expense Reimbursement Advance Request Yes NoDate Submitted
 
Mileage Request Yes, I used my privately owned vehicle. No, I used a city-owned vehicle.
 
     Number
Date of     Reason for Travel
     Miles
           
           
           
           
           
Total Miles x Kentucky Mileage Rate = Total Reimbursement Requested $
 
Per Diem Request Yes, with overnight stay. Yes, no overnight stay. No
 
Was a conference agenda provided? Yes. If yes, attach a copy to the request. No
 
Total Reimbursement Requested (See below.) $
 
Breakfast# of meals = $
Lunch# of meals = $
Dinner# of meals = $
 
Other Expense Request (Attach all itemized receipts and note reason for expense below.)
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
I attest the above accurately reflects actual expenses incurred on behalf of the city.
 
Employee Signature Date
 
Employee Supervisor Date
 
 
HR FORM 12 – MISSING RECEIPT AFFIDAVIT
 
Use with purchasing card for purchases and travel expense transactions.
 
USE ONE AFFIDAVIT FOR EACH MISSING RECEIPT
 
I have either not received or have misplaced a receipt totaling . This expense was incurred on behalf of the city. This form is submitted in lieu of the original receipt.
 
Reference Number Transaction Date
 
Vendor
 
Detailed Explanation
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
 
I certify that the amounts shown above were expended for city business purposes.
 
 
                                                                                                                                          
Employee/Officer SignatureDate
 
                                                                                                                                         
Approving Official SignatureDate
 
                                                                              
Approving Official Printed Name
 
 
HR FORM 13 – CHANGE IN PERSONAL INFORMATION
 
Employee Name
 
Employee Title
 
Type of Change
 
Address
 
Phone
 
Any status changes, e.g., marital status, birth of child, etc., should be documented on the Change in Status/Termination Election Form, Section 125 Cafeteria Plan Form as outlined in Chapter 2 of the employee handbook.
 
New Information
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
 
 
 
Employee Signature Date
 
 
HR FORM 14 – DISCIPLINARY FORM
 
Employee Date
 
Supervisor Position
 
Type of Warning Oral Warning First Written Warning
Second Written Warning Suspension/Demotion
 
Problem
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                        
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                          
 
Recommended action to correct problem.
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
My signature indicates I have been informed of a problem with my performance on the job and that I understand the recommended action which should be taken to correct my behavior.
 
                                                                                                                                                             
Employee SignatureDate
 
                                                                                             
Supervisor SignatureDate
 
                                                                                                                                                            
Mayor SignatureDate
 
Failure to correct this behavior will result in further progressive discipline up to and including termination of your employment.
 
 
HR FORM 15 – CONTINUOUS FEEDBACK
 
Employee
 
 
Department Supervisor
 
 
Goals ( / / )
 
1.
 
2.
 
3.
 
DateDiscussion Notes
 
                                                                   
 
                                                                                                                                            
 
                                                                                                                                                          
 
                                                                                                                                             
 
                                                                                                                                                           
 
                                                                                                                                             
 
                                                                                                                                                           
 
                                                                                                                                             
 
                                                                                                                                                           
 
                                                                                                                                              
 
 
HR FORM 16 – OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT REQUEST
 
Please be advised of my intention to engage in work outside the City of Irvine. The employer, type of work I will be doing, and the work hours are as follows:
 
(1)Prospective Employer
 
Address
 
Telephone Number
 
(2)Type of work that I will be doing. Explain in detail.
                                                                                                                                                            
 
                                                                                       
 
                                                                                                                                                            
 
(3)Work schedule. Include the hours to be worked and the period of time you will be keeping the job. If you do not know, please state that below.
 
Hours
 
Days
 
Period of Employment
 
(4)I am not presently involved in any job task or responsibility that may create a potential conflict of interest with the outside employer listed above. I agree that if in the future my job duties create an actual or perceived conflict, I will immediately notify the city and the Board of Ethics and take steps to avoid any
conflict of interest.
 
Printed Name Job Title
 
Signature Date
 
                                                  
 
I, , supervisor for have reviewed the employee’s job duties and assignments as to whether there is actual or perceived conflict.
 
Recommend Not Recommend
 
Reason/Comment
 
                                                                                                                                                                    
 
Supervisor Date
 
                                                  
 
I have reviewed the employee’s job duties and assignments as to whether there is actual or perceived conflict.
 
Recommend Not Recommend
 
Reason/Comment
 
                                                                                                                                                                    
 
Mayor Date
 
                                                  
 
HR FORM 17 – OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT REQUEST FOR POLICE OFFICERS
 
Officer’s Name
 
Present Duty Assignment
 
Hours Currently Assigned
 
Prospective Employer
 
Address
 
Telephone Number
 
 
Type of work that I will be doing. Explain in detail.
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
Work schedule. Include the hours to be worked and the period of time you will be keeping the job. If you do not know, please state that below.
 
Hours
 
Days
 
Period of Employment
 
How likely will it be that you will be required to invoke police authority in this off-duty position?
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
How likely will it be that you will be required to invoke arrest powers in this off-duty position?
                                                                                                                       
 
Will the off-duty employment require you to:
 
Wear a uniform? Yes No
 
Carry a weapon? Yes No
 
I certify that the above information is true. I have read the Outside Employment Request for Police Officers Policy and agree to abide by it. I certify that no aspect of this employment could be considered questionable in nature such as placement in compromising situations, use of police powers, or have the potential to bring
discredit to the city. I will use this authorization only for the position and employer stated above and the employer listed above knows that I am an employee of the City of Irvine.
 
Officer Signature Date
 
                                                  
 
I have reviewed the employee’s job duties and assignments and conclude that there is no actual or perceived conflict.
 
Recommend Not Recommended
 
Reason/Comment
 
                                                                                                                                                                    
 
Supervisor (if other than police chief) Date
 
Police Chief Date
 
                                                  
 
I have reviewed the employee’s job duties and assignments and conclude that there is no actual or perceived conflict.
 
Recommend Not Recommended
 
Reason/Comment
 
                                                                                                                                                                     
 
Mayor Date
 
                                                  
 
HR FORM 18 – ACTIVE-DUTY MILITARY LEAVE NOTIFICATION
 
Name Date
 
Department _
 
Date of Leave Approximate Date of Return
 
Do you wish to receive payment of your normal wages for up to 21 calendar days?
Yes No
 
If leave is expected to extend beyond your paid leave, do you wish to continue your voluntary benefits?
Yes No
 
If yes, please list the benefit and amount below.
(Examples: FSA, Life Insurance, Family Health Insurance, United Way Payroll Deductions)
 
BenefitAmount
                                                                                    
 
                                                                                    
 
                                                                                    
 
You will need to indicate how you would like to pay your premium(s) and or contributions below.
 
Monthly Quarterly Annually
 
Payments are due as follows.
 
                                                                                                                                                              
 
If payments are not made as indicated, you are subject to losing coverage and/or benefits.
 
Written order attached? Yes No
 
NOTE: You are not required to provide written orders until you have been on leave more than 30 days. Once you have exceeded 30 days you will need to submit a copy of your orders to the city to ensure your eligibility under the Uniformed Services Employments and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA).
 
Employee Signature Date
 
Supervisor Signature Date
 
Mayor Signature Date
 
*************************************************************************************************
Office Use Only
Date Received Copy to Payroll Copy of Orders
 
 
CHAPTER 37: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Establishment; membership
   
37.02   Police Overview Committee
Code of Conduct for Police Officers
   
37.15   Police ethics
   
37.16   Violation of rules, regulations or directives prohibited
   
37.17   Unbecoming conduct
   
37.18   Immoral conduct
   
37.19   Conformance to laws
   
37.20   Reporting for duty
   
37.21   Fictitious illness or injury reports
   
37.22   Sleeping on duty
   
37.23   Leaving duty post
   
37.24   Meals
   
37.25   Unsatisfactory performance
   
37.26   Possession and use of alcohol and drugs
   
37.27   Use of tobacco
   
37.28   Insubordination
   
37.29   Conflicting or illegal orders
   
37.30   Gifts, gratuities, bribes or rewards
   
37.31   Abuse of position
   
37.32   Endorsements and referrals
   
37.33   Identification
   
37.34   Courtesy
   
37.35   Requests for assistance
   
37.36   Public appearances and statements
   
37.37   Conflict of interest
   
37.38   Personal appearance
   
37.39   Political activity
   
37.40   Departmental reports
   
37.41   Use of force
   
37.42   Use of weapons
   
37.43   Arrest, search and seizure
   
37.44   Respect between ranks
   
37.45   Personal associations
   
37.46   Passengers in police vehicles
   
37.47   Grievance handling
   
37.48   Cooperation
   
37.49   Organizational membership
   
37.50   Conduct of internal business
   
37.51   Uniform
   
37.52   Insignia
   
37.53   Understanding duties
   
37.54   Prompt response
   
37.55   Service availability
   
37.56   Court actions
   
37.57   Discharge of weapon
   
37.58   Loitering
   
37.59   Vehicle care
   
37.60   Operational responsibility
   
37.61   Etiquette
   
37.62   Receiving evidence
 
   
37.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Chief of Police, see §
36.123
   Police Captain, see §
36.124
   Police Officer, see §
36.126
   Police Sergeant, see §
36.125
   Police Sergeant (D.A.R.E. officer), see §
36.128
   Safety officer, see §
36.127
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There is hereby established a city government department or
subdivision to be commonly known as the “Police Department for the City of
Irvine, Kentucky.”
   (B)   The Department shall be subject to the oversight of the office of the
Mayor who shall administer same pursuant to existing laws of the United States,
the state and the city.
   (C)   The Police Department shall have as its chief officer a member thereof
who shall be known as the Chief of Police and who shall be appointed by the
Mayor.
   (D)   The Police Department shall also have other offices and officers
necessary for the efficient administration of its duties and responsibilities.
   (E)   The Police Department and all of the persons presently employed by the
city in that Department or subdivision are and shall continue to be subject to
any and all ordinances, policies, directives and the like of the city and the
authority of appropriate officials thereof as it has been prior hereto.
(Prior Code, § 37.01) (Ord. 6-80, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 1999-06, passed 7-15-
1999)
§ 37.02 POLICE OVERVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the adoption of this section and no later than the second
meeting of the City Council following the adoption, a Police Overview Committee
shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to the majority approval of the City
Council. The Police Overview Committee shall consist of the Mayor, the Police
Chief and three members of City Council. Members shall be nominated by the
Mayor and approved by City Council. Council shall appoint its own members.
      (2)   The members of this Board shall serve without pay for that period
of time needed to complete the appointed work. Nothing in this section shall
prevent any or all from being re-appointed if needed.
   (B)   The Police Overview Committee shall, upon selection, immediately begin
working to review and evaluate the City Police Department procedures and
operations, including, but not limited to, ensuring said procedures and
operations are compliant with all police officer training and standards and are
conducted in a manner that is most beneficial to the citizens of the city.
   (C)   Work space and clerical help shall be provided for the Police Overview
Committee to complete its mission as the Mayor and Council deems appropriate.
   (D)   As soon as is possible to implement, an accredited training program in
law enforcement shall be established utilizing the facilities and incentive
program of a nationally recognized law enforcement school to qualify each
present member and any future member of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 37.02) (Ord. passed 4-8-1984; Ord. 24-06, passed 2-12-2024)
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR POLICE OFFICERS
§ 37.15 POLICE ETHICS.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared that law enforcement is an honorable
calling. Service in this field demands a professional and vocational, rather
than an occupational, philosophy. Personal honor, a desire for professional
status and devotion to service above self, are the motives which impel a police
officer to discharge his or her responsibilities in full measure.
      (2)   The officer gives his or her loyal and faithful attention to the
apprehension and identification of criminals, being equally alert to protect
the innocent and prosecute the guilty. The officer performs the functions of
his or her office without fear, favor or prejudice and does not engage in
unlawful or improper practices.
      (3)   The officer does not disclose to unauthorized persons any
information concerning pending matters which might be prejudicial to the
interests of the Commonwealth, the county, the city or the defendant.
      (4)   Rigid adherence to the principles set out above is mandatory for
anyone accepting a position in the Police Department. The significance of this
lies in the fact that the community places a trust in police officers and
expects them to conduct themselves as to merit this trust. Members should be
proud to hold a position which demands so much.
   (B)   Each officer will tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the
truth. Any attempts to resort to half truths or evasion of an issue will result
in irreparable damage to his or her reputation and destroy public and official
confidence in the entire agency.
   (C)   The officer will avoid the use of obscene, profane or violent
language.
   (D)   The officer will face his or her problems with determination and be
resolute and persistent in the face of difficulty. The officer will exert every
effort to complete his or her assigned tasks.
   (E)   The officer will, through constant study and application of
progressive police techniques, strengthen his or her own capabilities and
encourage public support.
   (F)   The officer will be loyal to the law enforcement service and to his or
her associates of all ranks.
   (G)   The officer will encourage his or her associates to fully discharge
the obligation of their offices.
   (H)   The officer will strive for full coordination of effort in internal
activities and in official relationships with other organizations.
   (I)   The officer will take his or her oath of office without reservations
or evasion. There can be no compromise with sincerity.
(Prior Code, § 37.15) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.16 VIOLATION OF RULES, REGULATIONS OR DIRECTIVES PROHIBITED.
   Officers shall not commit any acts or omit any acts which constitute a
violation of any of the rules, regulations, directives or orders of the
Department, whether stated in this general order or elsewhere.
(Prior Code, § 37.16) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.17 UNBECOMING CONDUCT.
   Officers shall conduct themselves at all times, both on and off duty, in a
manner as to reflect most favorably on the Department. Conduct unbecoming an
officer shall include that which brings the Department into disrepute or
reflects discredit upon the officer as a member of the Department, or that
which impairs the operation of efficiency of the Department or the officer.
(Prior Code, § 37.17) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.18 IMMORAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   Officers shall maintain a level of moral conduct in their personal and
business affairs which is in keeping with the highest standards of the law
enforcement profession.
   (B)   Officers shall not participate in any incident involving moral
turpitude which impairs their ability to perform as law enforcement officers,
or causes the Department to be brought into disrepute.
(Prior Code, § 37.18) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.19 CONFORMANCE TO LAWS.
   Officers shall obey all laws of the United States and any of any state and
local jurisdiction in which the officers are present. A conviction of the
violation of any law shall be prima facie evidence of this section.
(Prior Code, § 37.19) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.20 REPORTING FOR DUTY.
   Officers shall report for duty at the time and place required by assignment
or orders and shall be physically and mentally fit to perform their duties.
They shall be properly equipped and cognizant of information required for the
proper performance of duty so that they may immediately assume their duties.
Judicial subpoenas shall constitute an order to report for duty under this
section.
(Prior Code, § 37.20) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.21 FICTITIOUS ILLNESS OR INJURY REPORTS.
   Officers shall not feign illness or injury, falsely report themselves ill or
injured, or otherwise deceive any official of the Department as to the
condition of their health.
(Prior Code, § 37.21) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.22 SLEEPING ON DUTY.
   Officers shall remain awake while on duty. If unable to do so, they shall
report so to their superior officer, who shall determine the proper course of
action.
(Prior Code, § 37.22) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.23 LEAVING DUTY POST.
   Officers shall not leave their assigned duty posts during a tour of duty
except when authorized by proper authority.
(Prior Code, § 37.23) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.24 MEALS.
   Officers shall be permitted to suspend patrol or other assigned activity,
subject to immediate call at all times, for the purpose of having meals during
their tours of duty, but only for a period of time, and at times and places, as
established by departmental procedures.
(Prior Code, § 37.24) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.25 UNSATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE.
   Officers shall maintain sufficient competency to properly perform their
duties and assume the responsibilities of their positions. Officers shall
perform their duties in a manner which will maintain the highest standards of
efficiency in carrying out the functions and objectives of the Department.
Unsatisfactory performance may be demonstrated by a lack of knowledge of the
application of the laws required to be enforced; an unwillingness or inability
to perform assigned tasks; the failure to conform to work standards established
for the officer’s rank, grade and position; the failure to take appropriate
action on the occasion of a crime, disorder or other condition deserving police
attention; or absence without leave. In addition to other indications of
unsatisfactory performance, the following will be considered prima facie
evidence of unsatisfactory performance; repeated poor evaluations or a written
record of repeated infractions of rules, regulations, directives or orders of
the Department.
(Prior Code, § 37.25) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.26 POSSESSION AND USE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUGS.
   (A)   Alcoholic beverages and duties in police installations. Officers shall
not store or bring into any police facility or vehicle alcoholic beverages,
controlled substances, narcotics or hallucinogens except alcoholic beverages,
controlled substances, narcotics or hallucinogens which are held as evidence.
   (B)   Possession and use of drugs. Officers shall not possess or use
controlled substances, narcotics or hallucinogens except when prescribed in the
treatment of the officer’s health by a physician or dentist. When the above
items are prescribed, officers shall notify their superior officer before
reporting for duty.
   (C)   Use of alcohol on duty or in uniform. Officers shall not consume
intoxicating beverages while in uniform or on duty except in the performance of
duty and while under proper and specific orders from a superior officer.
Officers shall not appear for duty, or be on duty, while under the influence of
intoxicants to any degree whatsoever, or with an odor of intoxicants on their
breath.
   (D)   Use of alcohol off duty. Officers, while off duty, shall refrain from
consuming intoxicating beverages to the extent that it results in impairment,
intoxication, or obnoxious or offensive behavior which discredits them or the
Department, or renders the officers unfit to report for their next regular tour
of duty.
(Prior Code, § 37.26) (Res. passed 5-27-1986) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.27 USE OF TOBACCO.
   Officers on duty, either in uniform or plain clothes, shall not smoke while
calling at a residence or place of business, unless permission is obtained from
the occupant of the residence or business. The use of tobacco in any form in
public is discouraged while in uniform, and may not be used while on traffic
assignments. Chewing tobacco is prohibited during the tour of duty.
(Prior Code, § 37.27) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.28 INSUBORDINATION.
   Officers shall promptly obey any lawful orders of a superior officer. This
will include orders relayed from a superior officer by an officer of the same
or lesser rank.
(Prior Code, § 37.28) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.29 CONFLICTING OR ILLEGAL ORDERS.
   Officers who are given an otherwise proper order which is in conflict with a
previous order, rule regulation or directive shall respectfully inform the
superior officer issuing the order in conflict. If the superior officer issuing
the order does not alter or retract the conflicting order, the order shall
stand. Under these circumstances, the responsibility for the conflict shall be
upon the initiating officer. Officers shall obey the conflicting order and
shall not be held responsible for disobedience of the order, rule, regulation
or directive previously issued. Officers shall not obey an order which they
know or should know would require them to commit any illegal act. If in doubt
as to the legality of an order, officers shall request the issuing officer to
clarify the order or to confer with higher authority.
(Prior Code, § 37.29) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.30 GIFTS, GRATUITIES, BRIBES OR REWARDS.
   Officers shall not solicit or accept from any person, business or
organization any gift (including money, tangible or intangible personal
property, food, beverage, loan, promise, service or entertainment) for the
benefit of the officers or the Department, if it may be reasonably be inferred
that the person, business or organization seeks to influence action of an
official nature or seeks to affect the performance or nonperformance of an
official duty, or has an interest which may be substantially affected directly
or indirectly by the performance or nonperformance of an official duty.
(Prior Code, § 37.30) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.31 ABUSE OF POSITION.
   Officers shall not use their official position, official identification
cards or badges for personal or financial gain; for obtaining privileges not
otherwise available to them except in the performance of their duties; or for
avoiding consequences of illegal acts. Officers shall not lend to another
person their identification cards or badges or permit them to be photographed
or reproduced without the approval of the Chief. Officers shall not permit the
use of their names, photographs or official titles which identify them as
officers, in connection with testimonials or advertisements of any commodity or
commercial enterprise, without the approval of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 37.31) (Res. passed 5-27-1986) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.32 ENDORSEMENTS AND REFERRALS.
   Officers shall not recommend or suggest in any manner, except in the
transaction of personal business, the employment or procurement of a particular
product or professional service (such as an attorney, ambulance service, towing
service, mortician and the like). In the case of ambulance or towing service,
when the service is necessary and the person needing the service is unable or
unwilling to procure it or requests assistance, officers shall proceed in
accordance with established departmental procedures.
(Prior Code, § 37.32) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.33 IDENTIFICATION.
   Officers shall carry their identification cards on their persons at all
times, except when impractical to their safety or to an investigation. They
shall furnish their name and unit number to any person requesting it, when they
shall be on duty or while holding themselves out as having an official
capacity, except when the withholding of information is necessary for the
performance of police duties or is authorized by proper authority.
(Prior Code, § 37.33) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.34 COURTESY.
   Officers shall be courteous to the public. Officers shall be tactful in the
performance of their duties, shall control their tempers and exercise the
utmost patience and discretion, and shall not engage in argumentative
discussions even in the face of extreme provocation.
(Prior Code, § 37.34) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.35 REQUESTS FOR ASSISTANCE.
   When any person applies for assistance or advice, or make complaints or
reports, either by telephone or in person, all pertinent information will be
obtained in an official and courteous manner and will be properly and
judiciously acted upon consistent with established departmental procedures.
(Prior Code, § 37.35) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.36 PUBLIC APPEARANCES AND STATEMENTS.
   Officers shall not publicly criticize or ridicule the Department, its
policies or other officers by speech, writing or other expression where speech,
writing or other expression is defamatory, obscene, unlawful, undermines the
effectiveness of the Department, interferes with the maintenance of discipline
or is made with reckless disregard for truth or falsity. Officers shall not
address public gatherings, appear on radio or television, prepare any articles
for publication, act as correspondents to a newspaper or periodical, release or
divulge any investigative information, or any other matters of the Department
while holding themselves out as representative of the Department in the matters
without proper authority. Officers may lecture on police or other related
subjects only with the prior approval of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 37.36) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.37 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Officers shall not serve in any other service organization either full- or
part-time, which may cause a conflict of interest, loyalty and responsibility
to the Police Department. This includes, but is not restricted to, the Fire
Department, Red Cross, volunteer fire unit, rescue squad, ambulance service or
other type of law enforcement agency.
(Prior Code, § 37.37) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.38 PERSONAL APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Officers on duty shall wear uniforms or other clothing in accordance
with established departmental procedures and as directed by the Chief of
Police.
 
   (B)   Except when acting under proper and specific orders from a superior
officer, officers on duty shall maintain a neat, well-groomed appearance and be
in compliance with the city’s personnel policy (incorporated in Chapter 36).
(Prior Code, § 37.38) (Res. passed 5-27-1986; Ord. 24-07, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 37.39 POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Officers shall be permitted to:
      (1)   Register and vote in any election;
      (2)   Express opinion as individuals privately and publicly on political
issues and candidates;
      (3)   Attend political conventions, rallies, fund-raising functions and
similar political gatherings;
      (4)   Actively engage in any nonpartisan political functions;
      (5)   Sign political petitions as individuals;
      (6)   Make financial contributions to political organizations;
      (7)   Serve as election judge or clerks or in a similar position to
perform nonpartisan duties as prescribed by state and local laws;
      (8)   Hold membership in a political party and participate in its
functions to the extent consistent with the law and consistent with this
section; and
      (9)   Otherwise participate fully in public affairs, except as provided,
by law, to the extent that the endeavors do not impair the neutral and
efficient performance of official duties, or real or apparent conflicts of
interest.
   (B)   Officers are prohibited from using their official capacity and/or
title to influence, interfere with or affect the results of an election, or
engage in political activity while on duty or in uniform in compliance with all
Kentucky Revised Statutes and federal codes.
(Prior Code, § 37.39) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.40 DEPARTMENTAL REPORTS.
   Officers shall submit all necessary reports on time and in accordance with
established departmental procedures. Reports submitted by officers shall be
truthful and complete and no officer shall knowingly enter or cause to be
entered any inaccurate, false or improper information.
(Prior Code, § 37.40) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.41 USE OF FORCE.
   Officers shall not use more force in any situation than is reasonably
necessary under the circumstances. Officers shall use force in accordance with
law and departmental procedures.
(Prior Code, § 37.41) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.42 USE OF WEAPONS.
   Officers shall not use or handle weapons in a careless or imprudent manner.
Officers shall use weapons in accordance with law and departmental procedures.
(Prior Code, § 37.42) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.43 ARREST, SEARCH AND SEIZURE.
   Officers shall not make arrest, search or seizure which they know or should
know is not in accordance with law and departmental procedures.
(Prior Code, § 37.43) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.44 RESPECT BETWEEN RANKS.
   Officers shall treat those in the Department, of both higher and lesser
rank, with respect and response due them as fellow officers.
(Prior Code, § 37.44) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.45 PERSONAL ASSOCIATIONS.
   No member of the Police Department shall conduct associations or
relationships with women or men for social or personal purposes while on duty.
This does not preclude official associations in connection with the performance
of duty nor does it include an officer’s immediate family.
(Prior Code, § 37.45) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.46 PASSENGERS IN POLICE VEHICLES.
   No member of the Police Department shall allow unauthorized persons to ride
in police vehicles. Authorized personnel shall be construed as:
   (A)   Police personnel;
   (B)   Prisoners;
   (C)   Members of the immediate family in conformity with departmental
policy; and
   (D)   Other personnel designated on a temporary basis by the Shift Sergeant.
Temporary permission may be granted by a superior officer for training
purposes, humanitarian reasons or emergency reasons.
(Prior Code, § 37.46) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.47 GRIEVANCE HANDLING.
   A member of the Department having a grievance involving another member which
cannot be resolved amicably, shall consult his or her immediate superior.
(Prior Code, § 37.47) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.48 COOPERATION.
   Members of the Department shall assist each other promptly and energetically
to accomplish responsibilities of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 37.48) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.49 ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERSHIP.
   A member of the Department shall not join or be a member of any organization
or society designed to interfere with the orderly processes of government by
illegal means. A member of the Department shall not join or be a member of any
organization or society, the object of which is either directly or indirectly,
to interfere with the discipline and control of members of the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 37.49) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.50 CONDUCT OF INTERNAL BUSINESS.
   Every member of the Department shall conduct official business through
channels, as indicated in the organizational structure. Rank shall not be
disregarded in conducting business except where written or verbal procedures,
authorized by the Chief indicate that this may be done.
(Prior Code, § 37.50) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.51 UNIFORM.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall designate the nature and requirements of the
uniforms worn by police officers.
   (B)   Every member of the Department shall keep his or her clothing or
uniform in good repair. When wearing Class A uniforms, every member of the
Department shall keep his or her uniform cleaned and pressed; and his or her
shoes shined and conforming to departmental policy. Class B uniforms will be
kept in good repair and worn pursuant to the requirements set forth by
departmental policy.
   (B)   Every officer will wear their uniform buttoned or fastened while in
public view. While in uniform, officers will wear their uniforms completed and
not in a piecemeal fashion; (badges not affixed, ties off and the like) and
according to departmental policy.
   (C)   No member of the Department may wear identifiable parts of their
uniform clothing with civilian dress with the exception of the baseball cap. No
part of the uniform may be worn while the officer is on suspension.
(Prior Code, § 37.51) (Res. passed 5-27-1986; Ord. 24-08, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 37.52 INSIGNIA.
   Every member of the Department, when dressed in uniform, shall wear the
insignia of their rank or position. Only that insignia and other approved
awards and items (badge, shooting awards, name plates and the like) approved by
the Chief may be worn.
(Prior Code, § 37.52) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.53 UNDERSTANDING DUTIES.
   Every member of the Department who does not understand an official duty
shall read written directives authorized by the Chief, or consult with his or
her superior officers.
(Prior Code, § 37.53) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.54 PROMPT RESPONSE.
   Every member of the Department shall at all times respond promptly and
safely to all calls. He or she shall, as soon as practicable, notify the
dispatcher and make himself or herself available for further service.
(Prior Code, § 37.54) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.55 SERVICE AVAILABILITY.
   Every member of the Department shall keep himself or herself available for
service during those times and at those places where his or her presence will
have the greatest impact on current crime and traffic conditions.
(Prior Code, § 37.55) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.56 COURT ACTIONS.
   Every member of the Department shall immediately report to their commanding
officer any arrests or court actions instituted against them.
(Prior Code, § 37.56) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.57 DISCHARGE OF WEAPON.
   No member of the Department shall intentionally fire any weapons except as
authorized by law and departmental policy.
(Prior Code, § 37.57) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.58 LOITERING.
   No member of the Department shall permit any person to remain in a police
facility or vehicle unless the person’s presence is a requisite to the
conducting of official business.
(Prior Code, § 37.58) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.59 VEHICLE CARE.
   Every member of the Department assigned to operate police vehicles shall be
responsible for the cleanliness and maintenance of the vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 37.59) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.60 OPERATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   When two or more members of equal rank are simultaneously employed in the
same operation, the senior member shall be in charge, except when otherwise
ordered (senior member being defined as time in rank).
(Prior Code, § 37.60) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.61 ETIQUETTE.
   (A)   Every member of the Department entering a place of divine worship
shall remove his or her cap and place it neatly under the left arm.
   (B)   Every member of the Department in uniform shall not recognize or
address a detective (investigator) or call attention to the presence unless
first addressed by that officer.
   (C)   Commissioned officers will be addressed by their correct title at all
times.
   (D)   When the national anthem is played, members of the Department in
uniform shall face the colors, assume the position of attention and execute the
hand salute until the anthem is completed.
(Prior Code, § 37.61) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
§ 37.62 RECEIVING EVIDENCE.
   When any officer receives any information or evidence which pertains to any
case, the evidence will be logged and held by the “evidence officer” whom shall
be designated from time to time by the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 37.62) (Res. passed 5-27-1986; Ord. 24-09, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to
a fine of not more than $500, or imprisonment for not more than 12 months, or
both a fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 37.99) (Res. passed 5-27-1986)
CHAPTER 38: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
38.001   Title
   
38.002   Findings
   
38.003   Purpose and authority
   
38.004   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
38.015   Conflicts of interest in general
   
38.016   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
38.017   Receipt of gifts
   
38.018   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
38.019   Representation of interests before city government
   
38.020   Misuse of confidential information
   
38.021   Post-employment restrictions
   
38.022   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
38.035   Who must file
   
38.036   When to file statements; amended statements
   
38.037   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
38.038   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
38.039   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
38.040   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
38.055   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
38.070   Board of Ethics created
   
38.071   Alternate members
   
38.072   Facilities and staff
   
38.073   Powers and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
38.074   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
38.075   Notice of hearings
   
38.076   Hearing procedure
   
38.077   Appeals
   
38.078   Limitation of actions
   
38.079   Advisory opinions
   
38.080   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
38.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Irvine Code of
Ethics.”
(Prior Code, § 38.001) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.002 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of the a city officer or employee, that confidence
is imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Prior Code, § 38.002) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.003 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003 as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Prior Code, § 38.003) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The City Board of Ethics which is created and vested by
this city with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the city’s
code of ethics.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust professional service
corporation or any legal entity through which business is conducted for profit.
   CANDIDATES. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
office. An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification
and declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY. The City of Irvine, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation or other
entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor subcontractor or any of their employees or any
person providing professional services to the city.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A legislative body member;
      (3)   The City Clerk/Treasurer;
      (4)   The City Manager;
      (5)   The City Administrator;
      (6)   Any person who occupies a non-elected office created under KRS
83A.080; and
      (7)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Prior Code, § 38.004) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 38.015 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee or any family member
has a financial interest; and/or
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer or a business as defined in
divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) above, as a member of any business, occupation,
profession or other group, to any greater extent than any gain could reasonably
be expected to accrue to any other member of the business, occupation,
profession or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 38.015) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.016 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows.
      (1)   The prohibition of this section shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city before an
appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency office, or before an
employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However, if any contract
entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee before he or she
became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as an employee, is
renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the appointed office, or
is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in this division shall apply to
the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition of this section shall not apply if the contract is
awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the officer or
employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (A)(3)
below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition of this section shall not apply in any case where
the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency;
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed;
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply or
other specific reasons; and
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 38.016) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.017 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $50, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the officer employee in the performance of his or her public duties.
(Prior Code, § 38.017) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.018 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; and
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that the use is available to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 38.018) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.019 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf or a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Prior Code, § 38.019) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.020 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course or his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the State Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 38.020) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.021 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer’s or
employee’s service with the city or city agency.
(Prior Code, § 38.021) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.022 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater than $100 in
consideration of an appearance, speech or article unless the appearance, speech
or article is both related to the officer’s or employee’s activities outside of
municipal service and is unrelated to the officer’s or employee’s service with
the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech or article;
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Prior Code, § 38.022) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 38.035 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials and spouses; and
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office and spouses.
(Prior Code, § 38.035) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.036 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than 4:00 p.m. March 31, 1995. All subsequent statements of financial interest
shall be filed no later than 4:00 p.m. on February 28 each year; provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment; and
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good use shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Prior Code, § 38.036) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.037 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than January 31 of each year.
The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official, to deliver
a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or
employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Prior Code, § 38.037) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.038 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the official custodian of the statements
of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated
by the Board of Ethics as the custodian, as public documents, available for
public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five years after
filing; provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employed of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person; and
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(Prior Code, § 38.038) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.039 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer’s immediate family members exceeding $10,000 during the preceding
calendar year and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution and the like);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $50 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year; and
      (8)   The name and addresses of any creditor owed more than $10,000,
except debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase
of consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for person, family or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require an officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Prior Code, § 38.039) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.040 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
division (A) above within the time period established in the notice shall be
guilty of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board in an amount not to exceed $10 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine
of $500. Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of fails or refuses to
pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 38.040) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
NEPOTISM
§ 38.055 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement of a family member to an office or position of
employment with the city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer of the city or a city agency shall supervise or manage the
work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer shall participate in any action relating to the employment
or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall not
prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in the
development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member;
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to not greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any employment,
relationship or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed
prior to December 31, 1994.
(Prior Code, § 38.055) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 38.070 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties and responsibilities set forth in this chapter to enforce
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of three members who shall be
appointed by the executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of
the legislative body (if different from the executive authority). The initial
members of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter. No member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any
elected or appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of
employment with the city or any city agency. The members shall serve for a term
of three years; except that with respect to the members initially appointed,
one member shall be appointed for a term of one year, one member shall be
appointed for a term of two years and one member shall be appointed for a term
of three years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a term of three
years. No more than two of the members shall be of the same political party.
Each member of the Board of Ethics shall have been a resident of the city for
at least one year prior to the date of the appointment and shall reside in the
city throughout the term in office. The members of the Board of Ethics shall be
chosen by virtue of their known and consistent reputation for integrity and
their knowledge of local government affairs. The members may be re-appointed
for any number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the executive
authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body (if different from
the executive authority) for misconduct, inability or willful neglect of
duties.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
executive authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body (if
different from the executive authority). If a vacancy is not filled by the
executive authority within 60 days, the remaining members of the Board of
Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder
of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the legislative body, but shall be reimbursed for
all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its members
and annually thereafter, elect a chairperson from among the membership. The
chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of the
Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of two or more members shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of two or more members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a conflict of
interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board shall
disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself from
voting on the matter and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Prior Code, § 38.070) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.071 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The executive authority of the city, with the approval of the legislative
body (if different than the executive authority) may appoint two alternate
members of the Board of Ethics who may be called upon to serve when any regular
member of the Board is unable to discharge his or her duties. An alternate
member shall be appointed for a term of one year. Alternate members shall meet
all qualifications and be subject to all of the requirements of this chapter
that apply to regular members.
(Prior Code, § 38.071) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.072 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the legislative body in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(Prior Code, § 38.072) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.073 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths;
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
executive authority of the city, the city legislative body, the governing body
of any city agency, the County Attorney, or other appropriate person or body,
as necessary;
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter;
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter;
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the State Open Records Law;
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of
the city; and
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter; provided that the
rules, regulations and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 38.073) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Open Records Law, generally, see KRS 61.870—61.884
§ 38.074 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date of receipt.
The Board shall forward within ten working days to each officer or employee of
the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy of the
complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth’s Attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; and
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government, issue in writing, a confidential reprimand to the officer
or employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the executive authority and governing body of the
city or city agency; and
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 38.074) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.075 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(Prior Code, § 38.075) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.076 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The State Rules of Civil Procedure and the State Rules of Evidence
shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however, the
hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in accordance
with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as to afford
all parties the full range of due process rights required by the nature of the
proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination of
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand, to the executive authority and governing body
(if different than the executive authority) of the city or city agency with
which the violator serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body (if different than the executive authority) that the violator be
sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include a recommendation for
discipline or dismissal, or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; and
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or commonwealth’s attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 38.076) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.077 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the Circuit Court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the Court against the Board. The Board shall
transmit to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the Board at the
public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 38.077) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.078 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Prior Code, § 38.078) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.079 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   (1)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the State Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions.
      (2)   All other advisory opinions shall be public documents, except that
before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so that the
identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Prior Code, § 38.079) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.080 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the Commonwealth of any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
State Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; and
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Prior Code, § 38.080) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 38.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion or other disciplinary action
by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other officer
or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to remove or
discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter shall be
taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the city
and all applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
(Prior Code, § 38.999) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 12-12-1994)
CHAPTER 39: CITY POLICIES
Section
Smoke-Free Policy
   
39.01   Smoke-free policy
National Incident Management System
   
39.15   Established
SMOKE-FREE POLICY
§ 39.01 SMOKE-FREE POLICY.
   The real property improvements known as City Hall located at 101 Chestnut
St., Irvine, Estill County, Kentucky, comprising the city’s administrative
offices, the Police Department and Fire Department, shall henceforth be a
smoke-free building and/or workplace, at all times. Violation of this section
by any employee shall be cause for employee discipline. Violation of this
section by any member of the public shall be cause for eviction from the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 39.01) (Res. 1997-05-1, passed 5-12-1997)
NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
§ 39.15 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The President, in Homeland Security Directive (HSPD)-5, directed the
Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to develop and administer a
National Incident Management System (NIMS), which would provide a consistent
nationwide approach for federal, state, local and tribal governments to work
together more effectively and efficiently to prevent, prepare for, respond to
and recover from domestic incidents, regardless of cause, size or complexity.
   (B)   The Governor has established the National Incident Management System
(NIMS) as the state standard for incident management.
   (C)   The collective input and guidance from all federal, state, local and
tribal homeland security partners has been, and will continue to be, vital to
the development, effective implementation and utilization of a comprehensive
NIMS.
   (D)   It is necessary and desirable that all federal, state, local and
tribal emergency agencies and personnel coordinate their efforts to effectively
and efficiently provide the highest levels of incident management.
   (E)   To facilitate the most efficient and effective incident management, it
is critical that federal, state, local and tribal organizations utilize
standardized terminology, standardized organizational structures, interoperable
communications, consolidated action plans, unified command structures, uniform
personnel qualification standards, uniform standards for planning, training and
exercising, comprehensive resource management and designated incident
facilities during emergencies of disasters.
   (F)   The NIMS standardized procedures for managing personnel,
communications, facilities and resources will improve the city’s ability to
utilize federal and state funding to enhance local and state readiness,
maintain first responder safety and streamline incident management processes.
   (G)   The incident command system components of NIMS are already and
integral part of various incident management activities throughout the state,
including current emergency management training programs.
   (H)   The National Commission on Terrorist Attacks (9-11 Commission)
recommended adoption of a standardized incident command system.
   (I)   There is hereby established the National Incident Management System
(NIMS) as the city standard for incident management.
(Prior Code, § 39.15) (Ord. 05-01, passed 5-23-2005)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWER USE REGULATIONS
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER RATES
      
52.   CROSS-CONNECTION PREVENTION PROGRAM
      
53.   WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE
      
54.   WASTEWATER USER CHARGE
      
55.   SOLID WASTE
      
56.   WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT
CHAPTER 50: SEWER USE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Depositing objectionable wastes on public and private property
   
50.003   Discharging polluted waters prohibited
   
50.004   Mandatory sewer connection
   
50.005   Damaging sewerage system prohibited
Building Sewers and Connections
   
50.020   Written permit required for use of public sewer
   
50.021   Classes of building sewer permits
   
50.022   Costs and expenses of installation and connection of building sewer;
indemnification
   
50.023   Separate building sewer required for each building; exception
   
50.024   Use of old building sewer connections with new buildings
   
50.025   Connection of building sewer to public sewer
   
50.026   Connection of surface runoff or groundwater to building sewer
prohibited
   
50.027   Barricades and lights around sewer excavations
Use of Public Sewers
   
50.040   Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewer
   
50.041   Compliance with local, state and federal laws
   
50.042   Prohibited discharges
   
50.043   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
50.044   Measurements, tests and analyses
   
50.045   Special agreements
Industrial Wastewater
   
50.060   Permit for industrial wastewater discharge required
   
50.061   Application for permit; approval
   
50.062   Change to restrictions or conditions of permit
   
50.063   Term; renewal
   
50.064   Suspension of permit; notification; hearing
   
50.065   Revocation of permit; hearing; application for new permit
   
50.066   Industrial wastewater classification; surcharge
   
50.067   Control manhole
   
50.068   Trucker’s discharge permit
Fees and Charges
   
50.080   Tap-in fee; additional cost for industrial wastewater discharge permit
   
50.081   Charges for use of sewer
   
50.082   Debt service charge
Power and Authority of Inspectors
   
50.095   Right to enter premises
   
50.096   Safety
   
50.097   Access to easements
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.110   Hearing Board
   
50.111   Notice of violation
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMMONIA NITROGEN or NH3-N. The measure of nitrogen as ammonia, as determined
by the appropriate procedure in the latest edition of Standard Methods.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The measure of decomposable organic
material in domestic or industrial wastewaters as represented by the oxygen
utilized over a period of five days at 20°C and as determined by the
appropriate procedure in Standard Methods.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COD or CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. A measure of the oxygen equivalent of that
portion of the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a
strong chemical oxidant, as determined by the appropriate procedure in Standard
Methods.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Estill County Health Department.
   DISCHARGER. Any person who discharges or causes a discharge to a public
sewer.
   EFFLUENT. The liquid outflow of any facility designed to treat, convey or
retain wastewater.
   EFFLUENT SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying only effluent which has
received at least primary treatment, such as by a septic tank.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food in home kitchens, stores, markets,
restaurants, motels, hotels and other places where food is stored, prepared or
served. Specifically excluded are food-processing wastes from canneries,
slaughterhouses, packing plants and similar industries.
   GRAB SAMPLE. Any individual sample of wastewater collected over a period of
time not exceeding 15 minutes.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. All water-carried wastes and wastewater of the
community excluding domestic wastewater and uncontaminated water, including all
wastewater from any producing, manufacturing, processing, institutional,
commercial, agricultural or other operation where the wastewater discharge
includes significant quantities of wastes of non-human origin.
   IRVINE MUNICIPAL UTILITIES. A Commission appointed in 1962, composed of
three members, who are responsible for the complete operations of water and
sewerage within the boundary of authority of the city.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration which
is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   SEWERAGE. Any and all facilities used for collecting, conveying, pumping,
treating and disposing of wastewater.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, domestic wastewater or industrial wastewater
which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds
for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the
average 24-hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The current edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and as published by the American Public
Health Association.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Sewerage Works, or his or her
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The insoluble solid matter suspended in wastewater that is
separable by laboratory filtration in accordance with the procedure described
in Standard Methods.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 50.001) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.002 DEPOSITING OBJECTIONABLE WASTES ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 50.002) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.003 DISCHARGING POLLUTED WATERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.003) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.004 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTION.
   The owner of each house, building or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or sewer right-of-way in which there is located a public
sanitary or combined sewer is required at his or her own expense to install
suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect the facilities directly with
the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
within 90 days from official notice to do so.
(Prior Code, § 50.004) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.005 DAMAGING SEWERAGE SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   No person shall intentionally or wantonly break, damage, destroy, uncover,
deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenances or equipment which is a part
of the sewerage system. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to
immediate arrest under charge of criminal mischief.
(Prior Code, § 50.005) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982) Penalty, see §
50.999
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, see KRS 512.020 through 512.040
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 50.020 WRITTEN PERMIT REQUIRED FOR USE OF PUBLIC SEWER.
   No person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use,
alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the Irvine Municipal Utility.
(Prior Code, § 50.020) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.021 CLASSES OF BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential and
commercial service and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastewater. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Irvine Municipal Utility.
(Prior Code, § 50.021) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.022 COSTS AND EXPENSES OF INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION OF BUILDING SEWER;
INDEMNIFICATION.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.022) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.023 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER REQUIRED FOR EACH BUILDING; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.023) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.024 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWER CONNECTIONS WITH NEW BUILDINGS.
   Old building sewer service connections may be used for new buildings only
when they are found, on examination by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.024) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.025 CONNECTION OF BUILDING SEWER TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer at the property
line, or curb line, where branch sewers extend from the main sewer to either
the curb line or property line, or, to the service branch on the public sewer
where the public sewer exists within an easement on private property.
(Prior Code, § 50.025) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.026 CONNECTION OF SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUNDWATER TO BUILDING SEWER
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof drains, exterior foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building
sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a
sanitary public sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.026) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.027 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS AROUND SEWER EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation that extend adjacent to
public right-of-way shall be adequately guarded by the owner with barricades
and/or lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks,
parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be
restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.027) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982) Penalty, see §
50.999
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 50.040 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS INTO SEWER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff or subsurface drainage to any sanitary
sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
the sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm drains,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm drain, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 50.040) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.041 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   Disposal into the sewer system of any pollutant by any person is unlawful
except when the disposal is in compliance with federal standards promulgated
pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972
(FWPCAA), being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and any subsequent amendments, and
any more stringent state and local standards.
(Prior Code, § 50.041) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.042 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, lubricating oil, cutting oil
or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewerage system;
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewerage system such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastic, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper containers;
   (E)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F or which
causes the temperature of the treatment works influent to exceed 100°F;
   (F)   Any water or waste containing wax, grease or oils, of mineral origin,
whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which
may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F;
   (G)   Any water or waste containing fats or oils of animal or plant origin
whether emulsified or not, in excess of 300 mg/l;
   (H)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
   (I)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
   (J)   Any water or waste containing the following chemical constituents and/
or similar objectionable or toxic substances that exceed the following limits:
Constituent Maximum Allowable Concentration (mg/l)
Constituent           Maximum Allowable Concentration (mg/l)
Boron                 1.00
Cadmium               0.01
Chromium (hexavalent) 0.05
Copper                0.20
Cyanide (HCN)         0.10
Iron                  5.00
Lead                  0.10
Nickel                0.10
Zinc                  2.00
 
   (K)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other objectionable
substances, in concentrations as to exceed limits necessary to meet the
requirements of the state or federal agencies for discharge to the receiving
waters;
   (L)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration as
may exceed limits established in compliance with applicable state or federal
regulations;
   (M)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
      (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dairy wastes,
dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
      (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine demand in
quantities as to constitute a significant load on the wastewater treatment
plant; and
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
   (N)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment process employed, or are
amenable to only a degree that the wastewater treatment plant effluent cannot
meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to
the receiving waters; and/or
   (O)   Samples used for determining compliance with any limit expressed in
terms of maximum concentration shall be collected as a flow-proportional
composite sample over a period of time appropriate for the discharge in
question. Exceptions to this requirement are samples for substances, such as
cyanide, which may not be stable over an extended period of time; in these
cases three or more grab samples shall be collected.
(Prior Code, § 50.042) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.043 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for inspection. All interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(Prior Code, § 50.043) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.044 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with latest edition of Standard Methods, and shall be determined at
the control manhole provided, or on suitable samples taken at the control
manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents on the sewage system and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb and property.
(Prior Code, § 50.044) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.045 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore, by the
industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 50.045) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982) Penalty, see §
50.999
INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER
§ 50.060 PERMIT FOR INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any industrial
wastewater, or water containing the substances or possessing the
characteristics enumerated in §
50.042 of this chapter, directly or indirectly to the sewerage facilities owned
by the city without first obtaining a city permit for industrial wastewater
discharge.
   (B)   The permit for industrial wastewater discharge may require
pretreatment of industrial wastewaters before discharge, restriction of peak
flow discharges, discharge of certain wastewaters only to specified sewers of
the city, relocation of point of discharge, prohibition of discharge of certain
wastewater components, restriction of discharge of certain hours of the day,
payment of additional charges to defray increased costs of the city created by
the wastewater discharge and other conditions as may be required to effectuate
the purpose of this chapter.
   (C)   No permit for industrial wastewater discharge is transferable without
the prior written consent of the Irvine Municipal Utility.
   (D)   No person shall discharge industrial wastewaters in excess of the
quantity or quality limitations set by the permit for industrial wastewater
discharge. Any person desiring to discharge wastewaters or use facilities which
are not in conformance with the permit should apply to the city for an amended
permit.
(Prior Code, § 50.060) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.061 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; APPROVAL.
   (A)   Applicants for a permit for industrial wastewater discharge shall
complete an application form available at the office of the Irvine Municipal
Utility.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the permit fee prescribed in §
50.080 and of all required information, the application shall be processed and,
upon approval, be signed by the Superintendent and one copy returned to the
applicant. When properly signed, the application form shall constitute a valid
permit for industrial wastewater discharge.
   (C)   The application shall be approved if the applicant has complied with
all applicable requirements of this chapter and has furnished to the city all
required information and if the Irvine Municipal Utility determines that there
is adequate capacity in the sewerage facilities to convey, treat and dispose of
the wastewaters.
(Prior Code, § 50.061) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.062 CHANGE TO RESTRICTIONS OR CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   The city may change the restrictions or conditions of a permit for
industrial wastewater discharge from time to time as circumstances may require.
The city shall allow an industrial discharger a reasonable period of time to
comply with any changes in the permit required by the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.062) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.063 TERM; RENEWAL.
   Industrial wastewater discharge permits shall be valid for a period not to
exceed two years from the date of issuance. Applications for renewal of
discharge permits must be submitted 90 days in advance of the date the permit
expires. Applications for renewal shall be made on forms provided by the Irvine
Municipal Utility.
(Prior Code, § 50.063) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.064 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT; NOTIFICATION; HEARING.
   (A)   The Irvine Municipal Utility may suspend a permit for industrial
wastewater discharge for a period of not to exceed 45 days when the suspension
is necessary in order to stop a discharge which presents an imminent hazard to
the public health, safety or welfare, to the local environment or to the city’s
sewerage system. Any discharger notified of a suspension of his or her permit
shall immediately cease and desist the discharge of the industrial wastewater
to the sewerage system. In the event of a failure of the discharger to comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the Irvine Municipal Utility shall take
steps as are reasonably necessary to ensure compliance.
   (B)   Any suspended discharger may file with the Irvine Municipal Utility a
request for a hearing by the Hearing Board constituted under the effective date
of this chapter. The Board shall meet within 14 days of the receipt by the
Irvine Municipal Utility of the request. The Board shall hold a hearing on the
suspension and shall either confirm or revoke the action of the Irvine
Municipal Utility. Reasonable notice of the hearing shall be given to the
suspended discharger. At this hearing, the suspended discharger may appear
personally or through counsel, cross-examine witnesses and present evidence in
his or her own behalf.
   (C)   In the event that the Board fails to meet within the time set forth
above or fails to make a determination within a reasonable time after the close
of hearing, the order of suspension shall be stayed until a determination is
made either confirming or revoking the action of the Irvine Municipal Utility.
The Irvine Municipal Utility shall reinstate the permit on proof of
satisfactory compliance with all discharge requirements of the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.064) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.065 REVOCATION OF PERMIT; HEARING; APPLICATION FOR NEW PERMIT.
   (A)   The Irvine Municipal Utility may revoke a permit for industrial
wastewater discharge on a finding that the discharger has violated any
provision of this chapter. No revocation shall be ordered until a hearing on
the question has been held by the Hearing Board. At this hearing, the
discharger may appear personally or through counsel, cross-examine witnesses or
present evidence in his or her behalf. Notice of the hearing shall be given to
the discharger at least 15 days prior to the date of hearing.
   (B)   Any discharger whose permit has been revoked shall immediately stop
all discharge of any liquid-carried wastes covered by the permit to any public
sewer that is tributary to the sewerage system of the city. The Irvine
Municipal Utility may disconnect or permanently block from the public sewer the
industrial connection sewer of any discharger whose permit has been revoked if
the action is necessary to ensure compliance with the order of revocation.
   (C)   Before any further discharge of industrial wastewater may be made by
the discharger, he or she must apply for a new permit for industrial wastewater
discharge, pay all charges that would be required upon initial application
together with all delinquent fees, charges and penalties, and any other sums as
the discharger may owe to the city. Costs incurred by the city in revoking the
permit and disconnecting the industrial connection sewer shall be paid for by
the discharger before issuance of a new permit for industrial wastewater
discharge.
(Prior Code, § 50.065) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.066 INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER CLASSIFICATION; SURCHARGE.
   The Irvine Municipal Utility may classify discharges of industrial
wastewater by industrial categories and recommend the establishment of an
industrial wastewater treatment charge based on the average flow quality and
flow quantity for the industrial category adjusted by some commonly recognized
parameter that establishes the relative size of the industrial discharger being
charged. The classification shall be in accordance with the federal
government’s Standard Industrial Classification Manual, latest edition.
(Prior Code, § 50.066) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.067 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   When required by the Irvine Municipal Utility, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with the necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. These manholes, when required, shall be accessibly
and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved
by the Irvine Municipal Utility. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at
his or her expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 50.067) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.068 TRUCKER’S DISCHARGE PERMIT.
   (A)   All persons owning vacuum or cesspool pump trucks or other liquid
waste transport trucks and desiring to discharge septic tank, seepage pit,
interceptor or cesspool contents, industrial liquid wastes or other liquid
wastes to sewerage facilities of the city or to facilities that discharge
directly or indirectly to the sewerage facilities shall first have a valid
trucker’s discharge permit. All applicants for a trucker’s discharge permit
shall complete the application form, pay the appropriate fee, receive a copy of
the regulations governing discharge to sewers liquid wastes from trucks and
shall agree, in writing, to abide by these regulations.
   (B)   Discharge of septic tank, seepage pit, interceptor or cesspool
contents, or other wastes containing no industrial wastes may be made by trucks
holding a permit at manholes designated by the Superintendent for that purpose.
Truck transported industrial wastes shall be discharged only at the locations
specified by the Superintendent for the specific waste. The city may require
payment for treatment and disposal costs or may refuse permission to discharge
certain prohibited wastes.
   (C)   The trucker’s discharge permit shall be valid for one year from date
of issuance. Any person negligently or willfully violating the city’s
requirements for liquid waste discharges from trucks shall be in violation of
this chapter and may have his or her permit revoked by the Irvine Municipal
Utility.
(Prior Code, § 50.068) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982) Penalty, see §
50.999
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 50.080 TAP-IN FEE; ADDITIONAL COST FOR INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT.
   For each connection to the public sewer a tap in fee of $150 shall be paid
to the Irvine Municipal Utility with the application for a building sewer
permit. In addition to the tap-in-fee, persons obtaining an industrial
wastewater discharge permit shall reimburse the city for the actual cost of all
testing required to evaluate the industrial effluent.
(Prior Code, § 50.080) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.081 CHARGES FOR USE OF SEWER.
   All persons discharging wastewater into the sewerage system shall be charged
for the use of the facilities. The charges shall be assessed monthly either by
class of user or by quantity and quality of wastewater, at the discretion of
the city, and shall be a combination of debt service charge and user charge as
described in §
50.082 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.081) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.082 DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.
   All users of the sewerage system shall be charged for sewer debt service in
accordance with the rates set forth in §
51.03 of this title.
(Prior Code, § 50.082) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
Cross-reference:
   Monthly sewer service rates, see §
51.03
POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 50.095 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The Irvine Municipal Utility and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The Irvine
Municipal Utility or its representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any industrial processes beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
(Prior Code, § 50.095) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.096 SAFETY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
50.095, the Irvine Municipal Utility or duly authorized employees of the city
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees, and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
50.045.
(Prior Code, § 50.096) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.097 ACCESS TO EASEMENTS.
   The Irvine Municipal Utility and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 50.097) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.110 HEARING BOARD.
   The City Council shall act as needed to arbitrate differences between the
Irvine Municipal Utility and sewer users on matters concerning interpretation
and execution of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.110) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.111 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except §
50.005 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a 30-day time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice,
permanently cease all violations. Persons in violation of a valid permit for
industrial waste discharge are subject to the provisions of §§
50.060 through
50.068.
(Prior Code, § 50.111) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
50.111, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be
fined in the amount of $500 for each violation. Each day in which any violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
city by reason of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 50.999) (Ord. 6-24-82, passed 6-14-1982)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER RATES
Section
   
51.01   Establishment of rates
   
51.02   Monthly water service rates
   
51.03   Monthly sewer service rates
   
51.04   Bulk water sales to wholesale water utilities
   
51.05   Reduction of rates
§ 51.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF RATES.
   In the event the city’s $2,291,000 Utilities Revenue Bonds of 1981 are
awarded at public sale to FmHA upon its agreement to accept delivery and make
payment therefor on November 12, 1982, the schedules of rates for water service
and for sewer service that follow in §§
51.02 through
51.05 are hereby promulgated and shall be made effective as to water meter
readings made after the respective dates hereinafter set forth.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 91-2, passed 4-29-1991; Ord. 92-4, passed 10-17-
1992)
§ 51.02 MONTHLY WATER SERVICE RATES.
   (A)   A monthly water service rate to be made effective as applied to water
meter readings made next after passage and publication of this chapter for
property within the cities of Irvine and Ravenna, Kentucky and as may be set
forth from time to time by the City Council.
 
Owner (Inside City of Irvine, including Ravenna)
First 2,000 gallons (minimum) $16.87
All over 2,000 gallons        $6.31
 
   (B)   A monthly water service rate to be made effective as applied to water
meter readings made next after passage and publication of this chapter for
property outside the cities of Irvine and Ravenna, Kentucky and as may be set
from time to time by the City Council.
 
Non-Owner (Outside City of Irvine and Ravenna)
First 2,000 gallons (minimum) $18.99
All over 2,000 gallons        $8.22
 
   (C)   The Irvine Municipal Utilities shall, in January of each year, review
and consider adjustments to the user charge schedules for the water services.
Revisions shall be based upon the United States Department of Labor Consumer
Price Index (CPI) for the calendar year ending December 31 of the preceding
year. Any adjustments to the wastewater user charges shall be recorded in the
minutes of the Irvine Municipal Utilities and shall state the basis of any
adjustments to the user charges.
   (D)   Adjustments to the water charges shall not be greater than 3% in any
one year. Adjustments in excess of 3% in any one year shall require in addition
to that of the Irvine Municipal Utilities, the approval of the City Council.
   (E)   The adjustments to the water user charges shall be legally advertised
one time in the Citizen Voice and Times or other publication in which legal
publications for the city are made and which shall become automatically
effective April 1 of each succeeding year in which the findings are made. The
decision of the Irvine Municipal Utilities shall carry full force of ordinance
as if considered utilities shall notify the City Clerk/Treasurer of the changes
by April 1 of each succeeding year.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 08, passed - -; Ord. 7-81-2, passed 8-13-1981; Ord.
91-1, passed - -1991; Ord. 91-2, passed 4-29-1991; Ord. 92-4, passed 10-17-
1992; Ord. 03-07, passed 7-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-24-2008; Ord. passed 7-20-
2009; Ord. 17-03, passed 3-13-2017; Ord. 24-10, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 51.03 MONTHLY SEWER SERVICE RATES.
   (A)   (1)   Monthly sewer service rates, based upon quantities of water
provided to the premises, as shown by monthly water meter readings made next
after passage and publication of this chapter for property within the cities of
Irvine and Ravenna, Kentucky and as may be set from time to time by the City
Council.
 
Owner (Inside City of Irvine, including Ravenna)
First 2,000 gallons (minimum) $16.53 minimum bill
All over 2,000 gallons        $9.39 cost per 1,000 gallons
 
      (2)   Monthly sewer service rates, based upon quantities of water
provided to the premises, as shown by monthly water meter readings made next
after passage and publication of this chapter for property within the cities of
Irvine and Ravenna, Kentucky and as may be set from time to time by the City
Council.
 
Non-Owner (Outside City of Irvine and Ravenna)
First 2,000 gallons (minimum) $18.99 minimum bill
All over 2,000 gallons        $8.22 cost per 1,000 gallons
 
      (3)   The Irvine Municipal Utilities shall, in January of each year,
review and consider adjustments to the user charge schedules for the wastewater
services. Revisions shall be based upon the United States Department of Labor
Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the calendar year ending December 31 of the
preceding year. Any adjustments to the wastewater user charges shall be
recorded in the minutes of the Irvine Municipal Utilities and shall state the
basis of any adjustments to the user charges.
      (4)   Adjustments to the wastewater charges shall not be greater than 3%
in any one year. Adjustments in excess of 3% in any one year shall require in
addition to that of the Irvine Municipal Utilities the approval of the City
Council.
      (5)   The adjustments to the wastewater user charges shall be legally
advertised one time in the Citizen Voice and Times or other publication in
which legal publications for the city are made and which shall become
automatically effective July 1, 2010 and March 1 of each succeeding year in
which the findings are made. The decision of the Irvine Municipal Utilities
shall carry full force of ordinance as if considered and ordained by the City
Council. The Irvine Municipal Utilities shall notify the City Clerk/Treasurer
of the changes by July 1, 2010 and by March 1 of each succeeding year.
   (B)   (1)   Bulk wastewater treatment to County Water District.
 
Each 1,000 gallons $7.05
 
      (2)   The Irvine Municipal Utilities shall, in January of each year,
review and consider adjustments to the user charge schedules for the water
services provided to the County Water District. Revisions shall be based upon
the United States Department of Labor Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the
calendar year ending December 31 of the preceding year. Any adjustments to the
wastewater user charges shall be recorded in the minutes of the Irvine
Municipal Utilities and shall state the basis of any adjustments to the user
charges.
      (3)   Adjustments to the wastewater charges shall not be greater than 3%
in any one year. Adjustments in excess of 3% in any one year shall require in
addition to that of the Irvine Municipal Utilities the approval of the City
Council. Adjustments shall be sent to the Public Service Commission for
approval prior to their implementation.
      (4)   The adjustments to the wastewater user charges shall be legally
advertised one time in the Citizen Voice and Times or other publication in
which legal publications for the city are made and which shall become
automatically effective July 1, 2010 and March 1 of each succeeding year in
which the findings are made. The decision of the Irvine Municipal Utilities
shall carry full force of ordinance as if considered and ordained by the City
Council. The Irvine Municipal Utilities shall notify the City Clerk/Treasurer
of the changes by July 1, 2010 and by March 1 of each succeeding year.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 7-81-2, passed 8-13-1981; Ord. 91-1, passed - -
1991; Ord. 91-2, passed 4-29-1991; Ord. 92-4, passed 10-17-1992; Ord. 51.03,
passed 2-23-2009; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 51.04 BULK WATER SALES TO WHOLESALE WATER UTILITIES.
   (A)   Rate:
 
Each 1,000 gallons $2.94*
*Subject to Kentucky River Authority tax
 
   (B)   The Irvine Municipal Utilities shall, in January of each year, review
and consider adjustments to the user charge schedules for the water services
provided to the wholesale water utilities. Revisions shall be based upon the
United States Department of Labor Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the calendar
year ending December 31 of the preceding year. Any adjustments to the
wastewater user charges shall be recorded in the minutes of the Irvine
Municipal Utilities and shall state the basis of any adjustments to the user
charges.
   (C)   Adjustments to the water charges shall not be greater than 3% in any
one year. Adjustments in excess of 3% in any one year shall require, in
addition to that of the Irvine Municipal Utilities, the approval of the City
Council. Adjustments shall be sent to the Public Service Commission for
approval prior to their implementation.
   (D)   The adjustments to the water user charges shall be legally advertised
one time in the Citizen Voice and Times or other publication in which legal
publications for the city are made and which shall become automatically
effective May 1 of this year and each succeeding year in which the findings are
made. The decision of the Irvine Municipal Utilities shall carry full force of
ordinance as if considered and ordained by the City Council. The municipal
utilities shall notify the City Clerk/Treasurer of such changes by April 1 of
each succeeding year.
   (E)   Rate changes shall be adjusted annually pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) (Ord. 7-81-2, passed - -1981; Ord. 91-2, passed 4-29-
1991; Ord. 92-4, passed 10-17-1992; Ord. 03-07, passed 7-14-2003; Ord. passed
11-24-2008; Ord. passed 7-20-2009; Ord. 17-03, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 51.05 REDUCTION OF RATES.
   The city covenants and agrees that as long as any of the $2,291,000 “City of
Irvine Utilities Revenue Bonds of 1981,” authorized by the city’s Ordinance No.
7-81-1, as amended, or revenue bond anticipation notes authorized thereby
remain outstanding and unpaid, the city will not reduce any of the rates set
forth in this chapter, unless an opinion is obtained in writing from a firm of
licensed and qualified engineers experienced in water and sewer engineering,
that the rates, as proposed to be revised, will produce for the city the same
aggregate amount of water revenues as the rates set forth in the schedule of
water rates set forth in §
51.02, and the same aggregate amount of sewer revenues as the rates set forth
in the schedule of sewer rates set forth in §
51.03; and the opinion of the engineers is reviewed and approved by FmHA.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) (Ord. 7-81-2, passed 8-13-1981; Ord. 91-2, passed 4-29-
1991; Ord. 92-4, passed 10-17-1992)
CHAPTER 52: CROSS-CONNECTION PREVENTION PROGRAM
Section
   
52.01   Purpose and authority
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Requirements
§ 52.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish a program to assure
that the public water supply is protected from any auxiliary water supply which
may cause contamination due to backflow or cross connections. The city
recognizes that contamination of the public water supply presents an imminent
health hazard to the residential and nonresidential users of the public water
system; the threat of significant economic loss due to disrupted water service
to the residential and nonresidential water users and the potential liability
to the city.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
401 KAR 8:020 as enacted by the State Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Cabinet.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. passed 7-13-2009)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the city’s public water supply. These AUXILIARY WATERS may include
water from any natural source such as a well, spring, river, stream or body of
water, or any water or other substance of unknown or questionable quality that
may present a health or system hazard to the potable public water supply.
   BACKFLOW. The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. A listing of acceptable BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES and degree of
hazard is available in the Kentucky State Plumbing Law, Regulations and Code.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of potable water supply by any
waste product, fluid, substance, compound or other material to a degree which
creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through poisoning or
through the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two otherwise separate piping systems one of which contains
potable water and the other nonpotable water or substance of questionable
quality, through which, or because of which, backflow may occur into the
potable water system.
   THERMAL EXPANSION TANK. A device installed on the cold water supply line
near a water heater to compensate for the expansion of water within a water
system when water is heated.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Ord. passed 7-13-2009)
§ 52.03 REQUIREMENTS.
   The city shall provide protection to the public water system against
backflow by implementing the following requirements.
   (A)   Residential. Buildings used for habitation or occupancy shall be
considered as residential buildings. No new water service correction to any
premises shall be installed or allowed to be installed by the city unless the
service connection is protected by a backflow prevention assembly. Residential
service connections shall be considered as low hazard applications and all
connections shall have at a minimum a dual check valve backflow preventer
installed between the water meter and the residence. The city may require
additional or alternate backflow prevention assemblies if the degree of hazard
constitutes a higher level of protection for the public water system.
   (B)   Nonresidential. No new water service connection to any nonresidential
facility shall be installed or allowed to be installed by the city unless the
water service connection is protected by a backflow prevention assembly. The
type of protective device required shall be determined at the time of
installation of the service connection and shall be commensurate with the
degree of hazard at the point of service connection. At a minimum, the service
connection shall be installed with a dual check valve backflow preventer. In
the event activities to occur within a nonresidential facility change and
creates a higher degree of hazard, then the backflow prevention assembly shall
be replaced with an assembly which provides acceptable protection.
   (C)   Inspections. The customer’s water system shall be open for inspection
at all reasonable times to authorized representatives of the city to determine
whether cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including
violation of this chapter, exist. When a condition becomes known, the city
shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing a
physical break in the service line until the customer has corrected the
condition in conformance with the state and city statutes relating to plumbing,
water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuantly thereto. Water service to
any premises shall be discontinued if it is found that a backflow prevention
assembly required by this chapter has been removed, bypassed or if an
unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises. Service will not be
restored until conditions or defects are corrected.
   (D)   Existing service connections. All existing water service connections
which do not have backflow prevention assemblies or existing water service
connections which have less than the minimum required backflow prevention
assemblies, shall, except for the inspection requirements, be excluded from the
requirements of this chapter so long as the city is assured that the public
water system is satisfactorily protected. However, if the city determines that
a hazard to health exists, then a backflow prevention assembly meeting the
requirements of this chapter may be installed on existing service connection.
Backflow prevention assemblies shall not be installed on existing service
connections until after the property owner of residential or commercial
property has been informed of the actual and potential hazards that may be
created as a result of the backflow assembly installation. Notices provided to
the property owners shall include the following language as adopted in 815 KAR
20:120 Section 1, item (6):
When cross-connection control devices are properly installed, they create a
closed water system. A properly sized thermal expansion tank shall be installed
in the cold water supply located as near the water heater as possible.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) (Ord. passed 7-13-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 53: WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE
Section
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Declaration of a water shortage advisory
   
53.04   Declaration of a water shortage alert
   
53.05   Declaration of a water shortage emergency
   
53.06   Shortage water rates
   
53.07   Regulations
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the declaration of official
phases of water supply shortage situations and the implementation of voluntary
and mandatory water conservation measures throughout the city in the event of
shortage is declared. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with common law riparian or statutory water rights.
(Prior Code, § 53.01) (Ord. 1999-09, passed 9-13-1999)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any person using water for any purpose from the city’s water
distribution system, Irvine Municipal Utilities, hereinafter IMU, and for which
either a regular charge is made or, in the case of bulk sales, a cash charge is
made at the site of delivery.
   OPERATIONAL MANAGER. The chief executive officer of IMU.
   OTHER SOURCES OF WATER. Water that has not been introduced by the city into
its water distribution system.
   RAW WATER SUPPLIES. All water potentially available to persons in the city.
   TREATED WATER. Water that has been introduced by the city into its water
distribution system, including water offered for sale. Uses of treated water
are classified as follows.
      (1)   ESSENTIAL WATER USES (CLASS 1). The following uses of water, listed
by or user type, are essential:
         (a)   Domestic. Water necessary to sustain human life and the lives of
domestic pets, and to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and sanitation;
         (b)   Health care facilities. Patient care and rehabilitation;
         (c)   Water hauling. Sales for domestic use where not reasonably
available elsewhere; and
         (d)   Public use.
            1.   Firefighting; and
            2.   Health and public protection purposes, as specifically
approved by health officials and the municipal governing body.
      (2)   SOCIALLY OR ECONOMICALLY IMPORTANT USES OF WATER (CLASS 2). The
following uses of water, listed by site or user type, are socially or
economically important:
         (a)   Domestic. Personal, in-house water use including kitchen,
bathroom and laundry;
         (b)   Water hauling. Non-domestic, when other sources are not
reasonably available elsewhere;
         (c)   Commercial and civic use.
            1.   Commercial car and truck washes;
            2.   Laundromats;
            3.   Restaurants, clubs and eating places; and
            4.   Schools, churches, motels/hotels and similar commercial
establishments.
         (d)   Outdoor noncommercial watering.
            1.   Minimal water of vegetable gardens;
            2.   Minimal water of trees where necessary of their survival;
            3.   Outdoor commercial of public watering (using conservation
methods and when other sources of water are not available or feasible to use);
            4.   Agricultural irrigation for the production of food and fiber
or the maintenance of livestock;
            5.   Watering by arboretums and public gardens of national, state,
regional or community significance where necessary to preserve specimens;
            6.   Watering by commercial nurseries where necessary to maintain
stock, watering where necessary to establish or maintain revegatation or
landscape plantings required pursuant to law or regulation;
            7.   Watering of woody plants where necessary to preserve them; and
            8.   Minimal watering of golf course greens.
         (d)   Recreational. Operation of municipal swimming pools and
residential pools that serve more than 25 dwelling units; and
         (e)   Air conditioning.
            1.   Refilling for startup at the beginning of the cooling season;
            2.   Make of water during the cooling season; and
            3.   Refilling specifically approved by health officials and the
municipal governing body, where the system has been drained for health
protection or repair services.
      (3)   NONESSENTIAL (CLASS 3). Any waste or water, as defined herein, is
nonessential. The following uses of water, listed by site or user type are also
nonessential:
         (a)   Public use.
            1.   Use of fire hydrants (excluding Class 1 and Class 2 uses),
including use of sprinkler caps, testing fire apparatus and Fire Department
drills; and
            2.   Flushing of sewers and hydrants except as needed to ensure
public health and safety as approved by health officials and the municipal
governing body.
         (b)   Commercial and civic use.
            1.   Serving water in restaurants, clubs or eating places, except
by customer request;
            2.   Failure to repair a controllable leak; and
            3.   Increasing water levels in scenic and recreation ponds and
lakes, except as necessary to support fish and wildlife.
         (c)   Ornamental purposes.
            1.   Use of water for dirt control of compaction;
            2.   Watering of annual or non-woody plants, lawns parks, golf
course fairways, playing fields and other recreational areas;
            3.   Washing sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots, tennis
courts or other hard-surface areas;
            4.   Washing down buildings or structures of purposes other than
immediate fire protection; and
            5.   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in
any gutter or street.
         (d)   Outdoor commercial public watering.
            1.   Expanding nursery facilities, placing new irrigated
agricultural land in production, or planting of landscaping except when
required by a site design review process;
            2.   Use of water for dirt control compaction;
            3.   Watering of lawns, parks, golf course fairways, playing fields
and other recreational areas;
            4.   Washing sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots, tennis
courts or other hard-surface areas;
            5.   Washing down buildings or structures for purposes other than
immediate fire protection; and
            6.   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in
any gutter or street.
         (e)   Recreational uses. Recreational uses other than those specified
as Class 2;
         (f)   Noncommercial. Noncommercial washing of motor and other
vehicles; and
         (g)   Air conditioning (see also Class 2 purposes). Refilling cooling
towers after draining.
   WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface
drain; or
      (2)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
   WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE PHASES.
      (1)   ADVISORY. Conditions exist which indicate the potential for serious
water supply shortages.
      (2)   ALERT. Raw water supplies are consistently below seasonal averages,
and if they continue to decline, may not be adequate to meet normal needs.
      (3)   EMERGENCY. Water supplies are below the level necessary to meet
normal needs and that serious shortages exist in the area.
(Prior Code, § 53.02) (Ord. 1999-09, passed 9-13-1999)
§ 53.03 DECLARATION OF A WATER SHORTAGE ADVISORY.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds that a potential shortage of
raw water supplies is indicated, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution
that a water shortage advisory exists, and the Operational Manager shall on a
daily basis, monitor the supply and demands upon that supply. In addition, the
Mayor (or his or her agent) is authorized to call upon all water customers to
employ voluntary water conservation measures to limit nonessential (Class 3)
water use and eliminate the waste of water. This section shall be published in
the official city newspaper and may be publicized and through the general news
media or any other appropriate method for making resolutions public.
(Prior Code, § 53.03) (Ord. 1999-09, passed 9-13-1999)
§ 53.04 DECLARATION OF A WATER SHORTAGE ALERT.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds raw water supplies to be
consistently below seasonal averages, and if they are empowered to declare by
resolution that a water shortage alert exists. The city shall continue to
encourage voluntary water conservation measures defined under the advisory
declaration, and further shall impose a ban on all nonessential (Class 3) water
uses for the duration of the shortage until it is declared to have ended by
resolution of the governing body. Declaration of these resolutions shall follow
the guidelines in §
53.03.
(Prior Code, § 53.04) (Ord. 1999-09, passed 9-13-1999)
§ 53.05 DECLARATION OF A WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds that raw water supplies are
below the level necessary to meet normal needs and that serious shortages
exist, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution that a water shortage
emergency exists. Essential uses (Class 1) shall be identified, in specific, as
targets for voluntary conservation initiatives. Also, all socially or
economically important uses (Class 2) shall be restricted, and nonessential
uses (Class 3) shall be banned. These restrictions shall be considered ongoing
until the emergency is ended by resolution of the governing body. Declaration
of these resolutions shall follow the guidelines in §
53.03.
(Prior Code, § 53.05) (Ord. 1999-09, passed 9-13-1999)
§ 53.06 SHORTAGE WATER RATES.
   (A)   Upon the declaration of a water shortage as provided in §§
53.03 through
53.05, the governing body of the city shall have the power to adopt shortage
water rates, by ordinance, designed to conserve water supplies.
   (B)   These rates may provide for, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Higher charges per unit for increasing usage (increasing block
rates);
      (2)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
rate);
      (3)   Extra charges for use in excess of a specified level (excess demand
surcharge); or
      (4)   Discounts for conserving water beyond specified levels.
(Prior Code, § 53.06) (Ord. 1999-09, passed 9-13-1999)
§ 53.07 REGULATIONS.
   During the effective period of any water supply shortage as provided for in
§§
53.03 through
53.05, the Mayor (or Operational Manager of the municipality) is empowered to
promulgate regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this
chapter, any water supply shortage resolution, or water shortage rate
ordinance. These regulations shall be subject to the approval of the governing
body at its next regular or emergency meeting.
(Prior Code, § 53.07) (Ord. 1999-09, passed 9-13-1999)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter, who fails to carry
out the duties and responsibilities imposed by this chapter, or who impedes of
interferes with any action undertaken ordered pursuant to this chapter shall be
subject to the following penalties.
   (A)   If the Mayor, Operational Manager or other city official or officials
charged with implementation and enforcement of this chapter or a water supply
shortage resolution learns of any violation of any water use restriction
imposed pursuant to this chapter, a written notice of the violation shall be
affixed to the property where the violation occurred and mailed to the customer
of record and to any other person known to the city who is responsible for the
violation of its correction. The notice shall describe the violation and order
that it be corrected, cured or abated immediately or within a specified time as
the city determines is reasonable under the circumstances. If the order is not
complied with, the city may terminate water service to the customer subject to
the following procedures:
      (1)   The city shall give the customer notice by mail that, due to the
violation, water services will be discontinued within a specified time and that
the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the termination by requisition
hearing scheduled before the city governing body or a city official designated
as a hearing officer by the governing body;
      (2)   If a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered; and
      (3)   The governing body or hearing officer shall make findings of fact
and order whether service should continue or be terminated.
   (B)   A fee of $100 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water service
terminated pursuant to division (A) above. In the event of subsequent
violations, the reconnection fee shall be $500 for each additional violation.
   (C)   Any person may also be charged with violation of this chapter and
prosecuted in District Court. Any person so charged and found guilty in
District Court of violation the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
The penalty for an initial violation shall be mandatory fines of $200 which
shall not be adjusted by the Court plus additional sums as court cost. In
addition, the person may be required by the Court to serve a definite term of
confinement in the county jail which shall be fixed by the Court and which
shall not exceed 30 days. The penalty for a second violation shall be mandatory
fine of $500, which shall not be adjusted by the District Court. In addition,
the customer shall serve a definite term of confinement in the county jail,
which shall be fixed by the Court and which shall not exceed 30 days. Penalties
for additional violations shall be the same as the second violation.
(Prior Code, § 53.99) (Ord. 1999-09, passed 9-13-1999)
CHAPTER 54: WASTEWATER USER CHARGE
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Purpose
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Fund
   
54.04   Rates and charges
   
54.05   Financial records
   
54.06   Monthly billings
Wastewater User Charge System
   
54.20   Wastewater user charge system
   
54.21   Wastewater rates
   
54.22   Operating expenses
   
54.23   Operating budget line items
   
54.24   Proposed wastewater user charge
   
54.25   Surcharge system
   
54.26   Debt service
   
54.27   Summary
Cross-reference:
   Wastewater pretreatment, see
Chapter 56
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 PURPOSE.
   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the city to
collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the city municipal
utilities treatment works. The proceeds of such charges so derived will be used
for the purpose of operating and maintaining the public wastewater treatment
works.
(Prior Code, § 54.01) (Ord. 96-04, passed 7-22-1996)
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation or organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   COMMERCIAL USER. All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings, laundries
and other private business and service establishments.
   DEBT SERVICE. Charges levied on users of the wastewater treatment works to
support the annual debt service obligations of the system.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Includes legislative judicial, administrative and
regulatory activities of federal, state and local governments.
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). A source of indirect discharge which does not
constitute a discharge of pollutants under regulations issued pursuant to § 402
of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Includes social, charitable, religious and educational
activities such as schools, churches, hospitals, nursing homes, penal
institutions and similar institutional users.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 275 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than 275
mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Those functions that result in expenditures
during the useful life of the treatment works for materials, labor, utilities
and other items which are necessary for managing and for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
REPLACEMENT.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any contributor to the city’s treatment works whose lot,
parcel or real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes only.
   SS (SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of municipal wastewater, domestic wastewater or
liquid industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers,
wastewater collection systems, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof, elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works, including
site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment
process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such
treatment (including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of such
compost and land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land treatment
systems before land application); or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating or disposing of municipal
waste or industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary
sewer systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. The total wastewater service charge which is levied in a
proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation, maintenance,
replacement and debt service expenses of the wastewater treatment works.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by a user and approved by the city.
(Prior Code, § 54.02) (Ord. 96-04, passed 7-22-1996)
§ 54.03 OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   The revenues collected, as a result of the user charges levied, shall
be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the Operation, Maintenance
and Replacement Fund.
   (B)   Fiscal year-end balances in the Operation, Maintenance and Replacement
Fund shall be used for no other purposes than those designated. Monies which
have been transferred from other sources to meet temporary shortages in the
Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Fund shall be returned to their
respective accounts upon appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for
operation, maintenance and replacement. The user charge rate(s) shall be
adjusted such that the transferred monies will be returned to their respective
accounts within six months of the fiscal year in which the monies were
borrowed.
(Prior Code, § 54.03) (Ord. 96-04, passed 7-22-1996)
§ 54.04 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The following schedule of user charge rates shall apply to each user
of the wastewater treatment works. This schedule includes rates for OM&R and
rates for debt service charges, each based on the volume of metered or
estimated consumption.
Wastewater Services Monthly Rate Schedule
Water Consumption Total Gallons/Month Inside City         Outside City
                                      (per 1,000 Gallons) (per 1,000 Gallons)
Wastewater Services Monthly Rate Schedule
Water Consumption Total Gallons/Month Inside City         Outside City
                                      (per 1,000 Gallons) (per 1,000 Gallons)
First 2,000 gallons                   $8.46 minimum bill  $11.27 minimum bill
Next 1,000 gallons                    $4.43               $6.03
Next 7,000 gallons                    $3.53               $4.59
Next 5,000 gallons                    $3.33               $4.31
Next 10,000 gallons                   $3.18               $3.88
Next 75,000 gallons                   $3.10               $3.78
Next 100,000 gallons                  $3.05               $3.69
Next 200,000 gallons                  $3.00               $3.58
 
   (B)   For residential, industrial, institutional and commercial users,
monthly user charges will be based on actual water usage. If a residential,
commercial, institutional or industrial user has a consumptive use of water,
or, in some other manner, uses water which is not discharged into the
wastewater collection system, the user charge for that contributor may be based
on readings of a wastewater meter(s) or separate water meter(s) installed and
maintained at the user’s expense.
   (C)   (1)   For those users whose wastewater has a greater strength than
normal domestic wastewater, a surcharge in addition to the normal user charge,
will be collected.
      (2)   The following surcharge rates shall apply to each user of the
treatment works that has received permission from the manager or designated
authority to contribute excessive strength sewage:
 
Surcharge Rates
BOD $1.34 per pound
SS  $1.34 per pound
 
   (D)   Method of billing surcharges.
      (1)   The excessive strength surcharge shall be based on a formula (see
example below), with the total applied to the monthly bill of affected users:
   Example formula
   (A(D-275) + B (E-275)) x .00834 x G = Surcharge Payment ($/Month)
   Where formula components are as follows:
   A =   Surcharge rate for BOD, in $/pound
   B =    Surcharge rate of SS in $/pound
   C =    Surcharge rate for other pollutant(s) in $/pound
   D =    User’s average BOD concentration, in mg/l
   E =    User’s average SS concentration, in mg/l
   F =    User’s average other pollutants concentration, in mg/l
   G =    User’s monthly flow so wastewater works, per 1,000 gallons
      (2)   No reduction in wastewater service charges, fees or taxes shall be
permitted because of the fact that certain wastes discharged to the wastewater
works contain less than 275 mg/l of BOD and 275 mg/l of SS.
(Prior Code, § 54.04) (Ord. 96-04, passed 7-22-1996)
§ 54.05 FINANCIAL RECORDS.
   (A)   The city shall maintain financial records to accurately account for
revenues generated by the treatment system and expenditures for operation and
maintenance of the system, including normal replacement costs.
   (B)   The city shall review not less often than annually the wastewater
contribution of users, the total cost of OM&R of the wastewater works, debt
service obligations and user charge rates. Based on such review, the city shall
revise, when necessary, the schedule of user charge rates to accomplish the
following:
      (1)   Maintain an equitable distribution of OM&R costs among users of the
treatment system;
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenues to offset costs associated with the
proper operation and maintenance of the wastewater system and to meet debt
service requirements;
      (3)   Excessive strength and toxicity surcharges shall be reviewed at the
time of and in conjunction with the review of user charges. Surcharge rates
shall be revised where necessary to reflect current treatment and monitoring
costs; and
      (4)   Each user shall be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with
a regular bill of the rate and that portion of the total charge which is
attributable to OM&R of the wastewater system.
(Prior Code, § 54.05) (Ord. 96-04, passed 7-22-1996)
§ 54.06 MONTHLY BILLINGS.
   (A)   All users shall be billed monthly. Billings for any particular month
shall be made on the last working day of the month. Payments are due within 16
days after the end of the month. Any payment not received by the tenth of the
month shall be considered delinquent.
   (B)   A late payment penalty of 10% of the user charge bill will be added to
each delinquent bill. If delinquent bills are not paid by the twenty-fifth of
the month, then notice will be sent that the water service will be disconnected
on or after the seventh day of the following month, until such bill is paid.
(Prior Code, § 54.06) (Ord. 96-04, passed 7-22-1996)
WASTEWATER USER CHARGE SYSTEM
§ 54.20 WASTEWATER USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   All municipalities are required to adopt an approved wastewater user
charge system prior to receiving an SRF loan for the construction of wastewater
transportation and treatment facilities. The requirements for the wastewater
user charge system are included in the Federal Register under Title 40, Chapter
1 and Subchapter B, Part 35 and Subpart E. The wastewater user charge system
was established by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to
ensure an equal distribution among wastewater customers of the operation,
maintenance and replacement (OM&R) costs of the wastewater system. The equal
distribution of the costs considers the strength and flow rate characteristics
of wastewater customers as the basis of the wastewater user charge system.
   (B)   The charges that are assessed to each user for wastewater treatment
shall reflect, as closely as possible, the actual OM&R cost incurred by the
city to serve the customer. For flows with values less than or equal to normal
strength of wastewater, the wastewater rates will be based on a cost per unit
quantity. Influent flows that are above normal will be of excess strength and
will be subject to a system of surcharges to be established at a time as excess
strength flows appear.
   (C)   An acceptable user charge system must also meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   Flow costs not directly attributable to users (i.e., infiltration/
inflow) must be distributed among users of the treatment system based upon
either of the following methods:
         (a)   The same manner used to distribute the cost of OM&R among users
for their actual use; or
         (b)   Any one or combination of the following factors on a reasonable
basis:
            1.   Flow volume of the user;
            2.   Land area of the user;
            3.   Number of hookups; and/or
            4.   Property valuation (user charge system based on ad valorem
taxes).
      (2)   Each user must be notified, at least annually, with a regular bill,
of the rate and that portion of the user charge which is attributable to
wastewater treatment services.
      (3)   The user charges shall be reviewed annually and adjusted as
necessary to meet actual OM&R expenses.
      (4)   The user charge system must take precedence over any agreements or
contracts between the loan recipient and users where terms or conditions of the
agreements are inconsistent with EPA regulations.
      (5)   A financial management system must be established to accurately
account for revenues and expenditures of the treatment system.
      (6)   The user charge system must be incorporated in one or more
municipal legislative enactments or other appropriate authority.
   (D)   The city will be seeking a federally assisted wastewater revolving
loan fund for wastewater system improvements. The estimated cost of this
project is shown in Example I:
   Example I
   Wastewater System Improvements Estimated Project Cost
Cost                                                                   Total
Classification Local Funds CDBG Grant ARC Grant Other Loans FAWRF Loan Project
                                                                       Costs
   Example I
   Wastewater System Improvements Estimated Project Cost
Cost           Local                                                Total
Classification Funds    CDBG Grant ARC Grant Other Loans FAWRF Loan Project
                                                                    Costs
Administrative
and legal      $1,000   $31,400                                     $32,400
expense
Construction   $152,000 $598,100   $300,000              $1,258,592 $2,308,692
Contingencies           $40,000                          $30,000    $70,000
(3%)
Engineering    $5,000   $72,500                          $339,971   $417,471
Equipment
Land           $7,000   $8,000                                      $15,000
acquisition
Miscellaneous                                            $40,000    $40,000
Relocation
expenses
Total project
costs each     $165,000 $750,000   $300,000              $1,668,563 $2,883,563
funding source
 
(Prior Code, § 54.20) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 54.21 WASTEWATER RATES.
   (A)   The city must examine its existing wastewater user charge system
annually to ensure that it will provide adequate revenue to cover the OM&R and
debt service expenses of the wastewater system.
   (B)   (1)   The existing system uses a monthly wastewater service charge for
all customers.
      (2)   The system currently serves 1,836 wastewater customers.
      (3)   Wastewater bills are based on the user’s monthly water consumption.
      (4)   Customers who are single residential, commercial, wholesale and
industrial with normal strength wastewater have the following service charge
system:
Example II
Existing Wastewater Services Rates per 1,000 Gallons
Water Consumption Total Gallons/Month Total Rate          Minimum Bill
                                      (per 1,000 Gallons)
Example II
Existing Wastewater Services Rates per 1,000 Gallons
Water Consumption Total Gallons/Month Total Rate          Minimum Bill
                                      (per 1,000 Gallons)
First 2,000 gallons                                       $6.43
Next 1,000 gallons                    $3.64
Next 7,000 gallons                    $2.45
Next 5,000 gallons                    $2.25
Next 10,000 gallons                   $1.61
Next 75,000 gallons                   $1.55
Next 100,000 gallons                  $1.52
Over 200,000 gallons                  $1.50
 
(Prior Code, § 54.21) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 54.22 OPERATING EXPENSES.
   Example III shows the current and proposed operating budget for the city’s
wastewater system.
   Example III
   Wastewater Operating Budget (Dollars)
 FY 94—9Current FY 96—9Proposed FY 97—98
   Example III
   Wastewater Operating Budget (Dollars)
                                                                              FY 94—95Current FY Proposed
                                                                                        96—97    FY 97—98
Revenues                                                                                          
Other - equipment sales                                                       $7,000    $7,000     $20,000
Tap-on/impact fees                                                                                 $14,000
User service charges                                                          $296,000  $302,000   $440,000
Total revenues:                                                               $303,000  $309,000   $474,000
Expenses
OM&R expenses:
   Depreciation                                                            Does not affect cash flow
   Other - KIA depreciation/replacement fund on new debt - 5%/10 years                          $9,000
   Salaries and fringes; utilities; equipment replacement fund; chemicals,
supplies, and parts; contract services; and administrative costs/office       $276,000  $282,000   $299,000
supplies
Subtotal OM&R expenses                                                        $276,000  $282,000   $308,000
$Debt service expenses:                                                                           
   Existing debt                                                           $41,000   $42,000    $39,000
   Other - KIA administrative fee - 0.2% of new debt                                            $3,000
   Principal and interest payments (new debt)                                                   $90,000
Subtotal debt service expenses                                                $41,000   $42,000    $129,000
Total expenses                                                                $337,000  $344,000   $437,000
Net income/(loss)                                                             ($14,000) ($15,000)  $37,000
Notes:
Depreciation is a non-cash expense
The city maintains an improvement (replacement) fund balance of over $100,000
 
(Prior Code, § 54.22) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 54.23 OPERATING BUDGET LINE ITEMS.
   Example IV
   Operating Budget Line Items
   Example IV
   Operating Budget Line Items
   Administrative Costs and Office Supplies
Costs not directly attributable to the actual collection and treatment of
wastewater
Data processing costs
Delinquent accounts collection costs
Liability and structural insurance
Office and utility billing supplies
Postage
Printing, publications, subscriptions and professional dues
Rents and leases
Travel costs
Wastewater share of water meter-reading costs
   Chemicals, Supplies and Parts   
Asphalt
Automotive parts
Building materials
Cement, crushed stone, gravel, sand and dirt
Concrete, metal and plastic pipe and culverts used for repairs
Consumable tools
Electrical, painting, plumbing and carpentry supplies
Gas, oil, diesel fuel, grease and the like
Laboratory supplies
Machinery and equipment parts
Other repair and maintenance supplies
Repair parts for collection lines
Treatment chemicals
   Contract Services
Architectural and engineering services
Automotive repair and maintenance services
Contract printing and duplication services
Data processing services
Financial (audit)
Freight, express and truck charges
Leased equipment costs
Legal services
Plant and collection system repair and maintenance services
Purchases from providers not part of the wastewater operation
   Equipment Replacement Fund
Each wastewater operation must have some method of setting aside funds for the
replacement of major equipment items. One of the most frequently used
techniques is an equipment replacement fund or reserve for equipment
replacement. This should include any funds which your wastewater operation sets
aside to pay for the future major repair and/or replacement of items such as
lift pumps, vehicles and other major pieces of equipment used to collect and
treat wastewater.
   Other Expenses
Items expended but not included elsewhere
Specific reserve account cash deposits for facility replacement
   Principal and Interest
Bank service charges
Bond sale expenses
Bond coupon redemption costs
Bonds, notes, revenue anticipation notes
Interest
Short or long-term debt
State and/or federal loans, mortgages
   Salaries and Fringes
Bonuses
Employee training
Health and hospitalization insurance
Holiday pay
Life insurance costs
Longevity pay
Other employer contributions
Overtime pay
Retirement contributions
Salaries (salaried employees)
Sick pay
Social Security
Temporary salaries
Unemployment compensation
Wages (hourly employees)
Workers’ compensation
   Utilities
Electric power
Natural gas
Refuse collection (not contracted service)
Telephone
Water service
Note:
These line items would apply, as appropriate, to treatment operations, sewer
system maintenance, billing and other administrative functions
 
(Prior Code, § 54.23) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 54.24 PROPOSED WASTEWATER USER CHARGE.
   (A)   Charge. The proposed wastewater user charge system uses a monthly
wastewater charge for all customers. Sewer bills are based on 100% of the
customer’s monthly water consumption.
   (B)   Customer classification. The proposed wastewater user charge system
strives to ensure an equal distribution of collection and treatment costs to
the wastewater users. All customers with normal strength sewage, whether
residential or commercial, will receive the same minimum bill and will be
charged the same cost per equal volume of flow treated.
   (C)   Charge system. The proposed wastewater user charge system will consist
of three individual charges. Each customer’s bill will be calculated as
follows:
 
Monthly Bill = Fixed Cost (Debt Service) + OM&R Cost (Includes Administrative
Charges) + Surcharge
 
      (1)   The fixed cost charge is based on the perpetual costs of providing
wastewater service to the city, regardless of the actual wastewater
contribution. Debt service is considered a fixed cost, independent of the
amount of wastewater treated.
      (2)   The OM&R charge is based on the actual cost of operating the
wastewater transportation and treatment system plus a specified amount for
replacement of equipment. This would include any administrative charges.
      (3)   The surcharge is applicable only to customers who contribute
wastewater containing levels of pollutants above the maximum established
limits.
   (D)   Wastewater user rate. The wastewater user rate for the city will be
based on operation and maintenance charges plus an additional $9,000 for
replacement. The projected operating expenses for FY 97—98 are $308,000 which
includes replacement.
   (E)   Projected water use.
      (1)   The projected water use billed in FY 97—98 is 108,000,000 gallons
with a proposed 1,876 customer base. No industrial flow is anticipated at this
time. The wastewater OM&R rate would be the total operating cost divided by the
water use as shown in Example VI.
 
Example VI
   User Charge OM&R Rate Calculations
OM&R Estimated Annual Cost   Average Annual Water Usage   OM&R Rate per 1,000
                             (1,000 Gallons)              Gallons
$308,000                   ÷108,000                    = $2.85
 
      (2)   Therefore, the average charge to produce the required annual
revenue for operation, maintenance and replacement should be $2.85/1,000
gallons of water usage. This cost must be paid equally by each customer based
on their actual water use.
(Prior Code, § 54.24) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 54.25 SURCHARGE SYSTEM.
   Wastewater users producing waste flows of higher than ordinary strength will
add to the annual operation and maintenance costs of the sewage system.
Therefore, a surcharge system is developed based on the strength of those
wastes above the baseline values. The surcharge system is developed in Example
VII.
Example VII
Example VII
Any wastewater having a BOD and/or a SS of over 275 mg/l is considered
excessive and is subject to a surcharge to cover the extra cost of treating
the wastewater.
Annual BOD (0.005 * 8.34 * (500-275) * 365) =     3,425 lb/year
Annual cost to operate WWTP and collection system $308,000
Annual industrial metered water                   1,000,000 gallons
Annual residential/commercial metered water       107,000,000 gallons
Annual total metered water                        108,000,000 gallons
Annual total wastewater BOD                       247,699 lbs
Annual total wastewater flow                      146,000,000 gallons
Estimated industrial BOD
   (1,000,000/1,000,000) * 8.34 * 275 mg/l =   2,294 lbs
Estimated residential BOD
   (107,000,000/1,000,000) * 8.34 * 275 mg/l = 245,405 lbs
For 5,000 gpd @ 500 mg/l BOD
   (5,000 gpd * 365 days) =                    1,825,000 gallons/year
Industrial portion - (1 % of $308,000) =          $3,080
Normal strength (1,825,000 * ($2.82/1,000) =      $5,147(1)
Rate surcharge ($3,080/2,294) =                   $1.34/lb BOD or SS
Rate residential ($304,920/(108,000,000/1,000)) = $2.82/1,000 gallons
Residential percent                               99%
Residential portion - (99% of $308,000) =         $304,920
Surcharge (3,425 * $1.34) =                       $4,590 (2)
Total annual bill                                 $9,737 (1+2)
 
Example VIII
At this time, there are no industrial discharges to the city’s wastewater
treatment plant. A surcharge system will be developed at a time that higher
than ordinary strength wastes are discharged to the treatment plant.
 
(Prior Code, § 54.25) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 54.26 DEBT SERVICE.
   (A)   The proposed wastewater system improvements will be funded (in whole
or in part) by a loan from the Federally Assisted Wastewater Revolving Fund at
an anticipated 0.7% interest rate and a 20-year payback period. An
administrative fee of 0.2% of the unpaid loan balance is required.
 
   Example IX
   Debt Service
Administrative fee (0.002 of loan amount) $3,000
Annual debt service (20 years @ 0.7%)     $90,000
Existing debt                             $39,000
Interest                                  0.7%
Proposed loan                             $1,668,563
Required total annual revenue             $129,000
 
   (B)   The debt service is considered a fixed cost, independent of the amount
of wastewater treated. The debt service for the 1996 infrastructure loan may
need to be: increased when a final amortization schedule has been prepared.
   (C)   Example X assesses all debt service cost into the minimum bill and is
based solely on the number of sewer bills issued each month.
 
Example X
Estimated Annual Cost = $129,000
Average cost/customer/month: $129,000/1,876 customers/12 month per year =
$5.75/customer
 
   (D)   Example XI distributes the debt service based on actual usage the same
as OM&R.
 
Example XI
Estimated annual cost = $129,000
Average cost/gallons per year: $129,000/108,000 = $1.19/1,000 gallons
 
   (E)   Both of these options are acceptable, however Example XI will be used
to determine wastewater rates for the city wastewater system.
(Prior Code, § 54.26) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 54.27 SUMMARY.
   (A)   Based on estimated OM&R and debt service costs, the calculated
wastewater rates for simple distribution are as follows:
 
Example XII
Calculated Wastewater Rate Schedule
Water Consumption Total Gallons/
Month                            OM&R Rate Debt Service Total Rate Minimum Bill
From  To
2,001 Over                       $2.85     $1.19        $4.04 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   Since the city incorporates economy of scale for water usage, the
above calculated rates are modified to be consistent with the usage categories
of the previous rate structure. Therefore, in order to generate sufficient
funds to cover their wastewater operating expenses and debt service, the city
will use the following rate schedule:
Example XIII
Proposed Wastewater Rate Schedule
Water Consumption Total Inside City (per 1,000 Gallons) Outside City (per 1,000
Gallons/Month                                           Gallons)
Example XIII
Proposed Wastewater Rate Schedule
Water Consumption Total Inside City (per 1,000 Gallons) Outside City (per 1,000
Gallons/Month                                           Gallons)
First 2,00 gallons      $8.46 minimum bill              $11.27 minimum bill
Next 1,000 gallons      $4.43                           $6.03
Next 7,000 gallons      $3.53                           $4.59
Next 5,000 gallons      $3.33                           $4.31
Next 10,000 gallons     $3.18                           $3.88
Next 75,000 gallons     $3.10                           $3.78
Next 100,000 gallons    $3.05                           $3.69
Over 200,000 gallons    $3.00                           $3.58
 
(Prior Code, § 54.27) (Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 55: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
55.01   Regulations
   
55.02   Definitions
 
   
55.99   Penalty
§ 55.01 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Each person, entity, household or business having household solid
waste or commercial solid waste for collection by and within the city shall
place all solid waste (garbage and the like), in standard size (or smaller),
metal or plastic type garbage cans or containers, or dumpsters where required.
No 55-gallon drums or containers of the type or size, or larger, shall be
permitted.
   (B)   These containers shall be placed at the curb of each residence,
business or other allowable and appropriate place, not more than 12 hours prior
to scheduled collection by the city.
   (C)   All containers shall be properly and securely covered at all times.
   (D)   No solid waste, trash or refuse shall be placed for collection in a
plastic trash bag or other container except as set forth herein, unless first
placed in an approved container as provided herein.
   (E)   Any other solid waste, trash or refuse of the kind not collected on a
regular basis (the types of which are presently collected on Thursdays at
special request), including, but not limited to, white goods (appliances),
leaves, grass or lawn clippings, brush, junk, large items and the like, shall
not be placed on street or curb-side more than 12 hours prior to scheduled
collection.
   (F)   No tires of any kind shall be placed for collection at any time.
   (G)   No special waste or medical waste shall be placed for collection as
household solid waste. No hazardous waste of any kind shall be placed for
collection at any time.
   (H)   Any person having construction waste of the kind allowed to be placed
for city collection shall first obtain a dumpster and place the construction
waste in same. All building permits shall henceforth address the requirement of
a dumpster. If, in the opinion of the City Building Inspector, a dumpster is
required due to the nature and scope of the intended construction, it shall be
a condition of issuance of the building permit.
(Prior Code, § 55.01) (Ord. 1997-04, passed 8-11-1997) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. All types of solid waste generated by stores,
offices, restaurants, warehouses and other service and nonmanufacturing
activities, excluding household and industrial solid waste.
   CONSTRUCTION WASTE. Any and all waste, excluding municipal solid waste,
generated by reason of the issuance of a building permit and/or otherwise
generated by reason of the construction, maintenance, remodeling and the like,
of a residence or other building, shall not include any special waste,
hazardous waste or industrial solid waste but shall consist only of that kind
of solid waste permitted to be collected by the city.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any discarded material or material intended to be discarded
or substance or combination of substances intended to be discarded, in any form
which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute to an
increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating
reversible, illness or pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human
health or the environment when improperly treated stored, transported or
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   HOUSEHOLD SOLID WASTE. Solid waste, including garbage and trash generated by
single- and multiple-family residences, hotels, motels, bunkhouses, ranger
stations, crew quarters and recreational areas such as picnic areas, parks and
campgrounds.
   INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by manufacturing or industrial
processes that is not a hazardous waste or a special waste as designated by KRS
224.50-760, including, but not limited to, waste resulting from the following
manufacturing processes: electric power generation; fertilizer or agricultural
chemicals; food and related products or by-products; inorganic chemicals; iron
and steel manufacturing; leather and leather products; nonferrous metals
manufacturing/foundries; organic chemicals; plastics and resins manufacturing;
pulp and paper industry; rubber and miscellaneous plastic products; stone,
glass, clay and concrete products; textile manufacturing; transportation
equipment; and water treatment.
   MEDICAL WASTE. As otherwise set forth in applicable statutes and
Administrative Regulations of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Household solid waste and commercial solid waste.
   SPECIAL WASTE. Those wastes of high volume and low hazard which include, but
are not limited to, mining wastes, utility wastes (fly ash, bottom ash and
scrubber sludge), sludge from water treatment facilities and wastewater
treatment facilities, cement kiln dust, gas and oil drilling muds, and oil
production brines. Other wastes may be designated special wastes by the
cabinet.
(Prior Code, § 55.02) (Ord. 1997-04, passed 8-11-1997)
Statutory reference:
   For current similar definitions under state law, see KRS 224.1-010(30) and
224.50-760
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   Penalties are provided with regard to this chapter as follows. Any owner or
occupant of premises where any solid waste is caused, maintained, placed for
collection or kept in violation of any provisions of this chapter is subject to
a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each offense. Each day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense for which the maximum
fine may be imposed.
(Prior Code, § 55.99) (Ord. 1997-04, passed 8-11-1997)
CHAPTER 56: WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
56.001   Purpose and policy
   
56.002   Administration
   
56.003   Abbreviations
   
56.004   Definitions
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
56.015   Prohibited discharge standards
   
56.016   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
56.017   State pretreatment standards
   
56.018   Local limits
   
56.019   City’s right of revision
   
56.020   Dilution
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
56.035   Pretreatment facilities
   
56.036   Additional pretreatment measures
   
56.037   Accidental discharge/slug discharge control plans
   
56.038   Hauled wastewater
Individual Wastewater Discharge Permits
   
56.050   Wastewater analysis
   
56.051   Individual wastewater discharge permit requirement
Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance
   
56.065   Individual wastewater discharge permit duration
   
56.066   Individual wastewater discharge permit contents
   
56.067   Permit modification
   
56.068   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions
Reporting Requirements
   
56.080   Baseline monitoring reports
   
56.081   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
56.082   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
56.083   Periodic compliance reports
   
56.084   Reports of changed conditions
   
56.085   Reports of potential problems
   
56.086   Reports from unpermitted users
   
56.087   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
56.088   Analytical requirements
   
56.089   Sample collection
   
56.090   Date of receipt of reports
   
56.091   Record keeping
   
56.092   Certification statements
Compliance Monitoring
   
56.105   Right of entry; inspection and sampling
   
56.106   Search warrants
Confidential Information
   
56.120   Confidential information
Publication of Users in Significant Noncompliance
   
56.135   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
56.150   Notice of violation
   
56.151   Consent orders
   
56.152   Show cause hearing
   
56.153   Compliance orders
   
56.154   Cease and desist orders
   
56.155   Administrative fines
   
56.156   Emergency suspensions
   
56.157   Termination of discharge
Judicial Enforcement Remedies
   
56.170   Injunctive relief
   
56.171   Remedies nonexclusive
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
56.185   Upset
   
56.186   Prohibited discharge standards
   
56.187   Bypass
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
56.200   Pretreatment charges and fees
 
   
56.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 56.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly
owned treatment works for the city and enable the Irvine Municipal Utilities
(IMU), on behalf of the city, to comply with all applicable state and federal
laws, including the state pretreatment requirements, the Clean Water Act (33
U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R.
part 403). The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
      (3)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly owned treatment works; and
      (5)   To enable the city to comply with its national pollutant discharge
elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works is
subject.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the publicly owned treatment
works. This chapter authorizes the issuance of individual wastewater discharge
permits; provides for monitoring, compliance and enforcement activities;
establishes administrative review procedures; requires user reporting; and
provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs
resulting from the program established herein.
(Prior Code, § 56.001) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)   
§ 56.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Operational Manager shall
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers
granted to or duties imposed upon the Operational Manager may be delegated by
the Operational Manager to a duly authorized IMU employee.
(Prior Code, § 56.002) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
BMP    Best management practice
BMR    Baseline monitoring report
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
CIU    Categorical industrial user
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
gpd    Gallons per day
IU     Industrial user
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National pollutant discharge elimination system
NSCIU  Non-significant categorical industrial user {'{'}optional{'}'}
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIU    Significant industrial user
SNC    Significant noncompliance
TSS    Total suspended solids
U.S.C. United States Code
 
(Prior Code, § 56.003) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Kentucky Division of Water Director or his or her
representative(s).
   AUTHORIZED OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operating facilities; provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3), above, may
designate a DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to IMU.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPS. Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. part 403. BMPS include treatment
requirements, operating procedures and practices to control plant site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20ºC, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with §
307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) that apply to a specific category
of users and that appear in 40 C.F.R. chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405
through 471.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize
all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   CITY. The City of Irvine or the City Council of Irvine.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Irvine Municipal Utility.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant (except pH) collected during a calendar day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division Director,
the Regional Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge that is not a new source.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample that is taken from a wastestream without regard to the
flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source.
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; or exceeds
the design capacity of the treatment works or the collection system.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by IMU upon
industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and specific
discharge prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. part 403.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of all daily discharges measured during a calendar
month divided by the number of daily discharges measured during that month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of daily discharges
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of daily discharges measured
during that month.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(c), that will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided
that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of divisions (1)(b) or (1)(c) above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE as defined under this definition has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this definition.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   OPERATIONAL MANAGER. The person designated by the Irvine Municipal Utilities
to supervise the operation of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties
and responsibilities by this chapter. The term also means a duly authorized
representative of the OPERATIONAL MANAGER.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of IMU’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or
duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, including individuals, firms, partnerships,
associations, public or private institutions, state and federal agencies,
municipalities or political subdivisions, or officers thereof, departments,
agencies or instrumentalities, or public or private corporations or officers
thereof, organized or existing under the laws of this or any state or country.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards and local limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in § 56.010.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by the city. This definition
includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature and
any conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations and the like).
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Except as provided in divisions (3) and
(4) of this definition, a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER is:
      (1)   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
or
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by IMU on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (3)   IMU may determine that an industrial user subject to categorical
pretreatment standards is a non-significant categorical industrial user rather
than a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER on a finding that the industrial user never
discharges more than 100 gallons per day (gpd) of total categorical wastewater
(excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater, unless
specifically included in the pretreatment standard) and the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   The industrial user, prior to IMU’s finding, has consistently
complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (b)   The industrial user annually submits the certification statement
required in 40 C.F.R. part 403, together with any additional information
necessary to support the certification statement as may be required by IMU; and
         (c)   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
      (4)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in division (2) of
this definition has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, IMU may at
any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from an
industrial user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 C.F.R. part 403,
determine that such user should not be considered a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL
USER.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration,
which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
56.015. A SLUG DISCHARGE is any discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature,
including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass
through, or in any other way violate the POTW’s regulations, local limits or
permit conditions.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that
floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other
liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
   USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
(Prior Code, § 56.004) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 56.015 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140ºF (60ºC) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.5 or more than 9.0 standard
units, or otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or
equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case solids greater
than one-half inch in any dimension;
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW;
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 150ºF, or which will
inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in interference,
but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the introduction into
the treatment plant to exceed 100ºF;
      (6)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the Operational Manager in accordance with §
56.038;
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      (10)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating IMU’s KPDES permit;
      (11)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (12)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Operational Manager;
      (13)   Sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (14)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Operational Manager in an individual wastewater discharge permit;
      (15)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail toxicity test;
      (16)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which that
might cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      (17)   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 300 mg/l; or
      (18)   Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section
shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the POTW.
(Prior Code, § 56.010) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.016 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users must comply with the categorical pretreatment standards found at 40
C.F.R. chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405 through 471. When wastewater subject
to a categorical pretreatment standard is mixed with wastewater not regulated
by the same standard, the Operational Manager shall impose an alternate limit
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 403.
(Prior Code, § 56.011) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.017 STATE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users must comply with Commonwealth of Kentucky pretreatment standards set
forth in 401 KAR 5:057. KPDES pretreatment requirements, or such other
requirements as may exist or be adopted by state law.
(Prior Code, § 56.012) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.018 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The IMU Board of Commission is authorized to establish local limits
pursuant to 401 KAR 5:055, KPDES pretreatment requirements and KRS 82.082 and
as delegated by the city.
   (B)   The following pollutant limits are established to protect against pass
through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater containing in
excess of the following maximum daily concentrations:
Arsenic              1.07
Cadmium              0.04
Chromium, total      2.77
Chromium, hexavalent 0.94
Copper               3.38
Cyanide, amenable    2.01
Lead                 0.88
Mercury              0.010
Nickel               3.98
Selenium             0.36
Silver               0.43
Zinc                 2.61
 
   (C)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged
to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for total metal
unless indicated otherwise. The Operational Manager may impose mass limitations
in addition to the concentration-based limitations above.
(Prior Code, § 56.013) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.019 CITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in individual
wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on
discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 56.014) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.020 DILUTION.
   (A)   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way
attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement.
   (B)   The Operational Manager may impose mass limitations on users who are
using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in
other cases when the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 56.015) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
56.999
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 56.035 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in §
56.015 within the time limitations specified by the EPA, the state or the
Operational Manager, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for
compliance shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user’s expense.
Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the Operational Manager for review, and shall be acceptable to the
Operational Manager before such facilities are constructed. The review of such
plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge
acceptable to IMU under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 56.025) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.036 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   The Operational Manager may require any person discharging into the
POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a
suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow.
   (B)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Operational Manager, they are necessary for the proper handling
of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except
that such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All
interception units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Operational
Manager and shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired by the
user at their expense.
   (C)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Prior Code, § 56.026) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.037 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG DISCHARGE CONTROL PLANS.
   The Operational Manager shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental
discharge/slug discharge control plan or other action to control slug
discharges. The Operational Manager may require any user to develop, submit for
approval and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be
necessary to control slug discharges. Alternatively, the Operational Manager
may develop such a plan for any user. An accidental discharge/slug discharge
control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
   (A)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
   (B)   Description of stored chemicals;
   (C)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Operational Manager of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
56.085; and
   (D)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Prior Code, § 56.027) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.038 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the Operational Manager, and at such times as are established by
the Operational Manager. Such waste shall not violate §§
56.015 through
56.020 or any other requirements established by the city. The Operational
Manager may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain individual wastewater
discharge permits.
   (B)   The Operational Manager may require haulers of industrial waste to
obtain individual wastewater discharge permits. The Operational Manager may
require generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain individual wastewater
discharge permits. The Operational Manager also may prohibit the disposal of
hauled industrial waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to
all other requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Operational Manager. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the Operational Manager. The Operational Manager may collect samples
of each hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The
Operational Manager may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste
analysis of any load prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall
include, at a minimum, the name and address of the industrial waste hauler,
permit number, truck identification, names and addresses of sources of waste,
and volume and characteristics of waste. The form shall identify the type of
industry and known or suspected waste constituents.
   (E)   Waste haulers shall not dispose of RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Prior Code, § 56.028) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 56.050 WASTEWATER ANALYSIS.
   When requested by the Operational Manager, a user must submit information on
the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of the request.
The Operational Manager is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and
may periodically require users to update this information.
(Prior Code, § 56.035) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.051 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit from the
Operational Manager, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a
timely application pursuant to §
56.065 may continue to discharge for the time period specified therein.
   (B)   The Operational Manager may require other users to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual wastewater
discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the
wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in §§
56.150 through
56.157, 56.170, 56.171, 56.185 through 56.187 and 56.999. Obtaining an
individual wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of its
obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or
requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state and local law.
(Prior Code, § 56.036) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015; Ord. 24-12, passed 2-12-2024) Penalty, see §
56.999
INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE
§ 56.065 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DURATION.
   An individual wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified
time period, not to exceed five years from the effective date of the permit. An
individual wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period less than
five years, at the discretion of the Superintendent. Each individual wastewater
discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
(Prior Code, § 56.045) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.066 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CONTENTS.
   An individual wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as
are deemed reasonably necessary by the Superintendent to prevent pass through
or interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (A)   Individual wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the city in accordance with §
56.065, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Self monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and record
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency and sample type based on federal, state and local law;
      (5)   The process for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant
neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge in accordance with
§
56.083(B);
      (6)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state or local law;
      (7)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Superintendent to be necessary; and
      (8)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Superintendent (§
56.083(B)) must be included as a condition in the user’s permit.
   (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be
limited to, the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or nonroutine
discharges;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the individual wastewater
discharge permit does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for
compliance with all applicable federal and state pretreatment standards,
including those which become effective during the term of the individual
wastewater discharge permit; and
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by IMU to ensure compliance
with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules and regulations.
   (C)   A permit application will be required upon initial application and
with each subsequent renewal.
(Prior Code, § 56.046) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015; Ord. 24-12, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 56.067 PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   The Operational Manager may modify an individual wastewater discharge permit
for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the city’s POTW, IMU personnel or the receiving waters;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual wastewater
discharge permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. part 403;
   (H)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual wastewater
discharge permit; or
   (I)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner or operator where requested.
(Prior Code, § 56.047) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.068 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   If another municipality or utility, or user located within another
legal jurisdiction, contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Operational Manager
shall enter into an intermunicipal or interlocal agreement with the
contributing municipality, utility or legal authority.
   (B)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by division (A) above,
the Operational Manager shall request the following information from the
contributing utility:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing utility;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing utility’s
service area that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Such other information as the Operational Manager may deem
necessary.
   (C)   An intermunicipal or interlocal agreement, as required by division (A)
above, shall contain the following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing utility’s legal authority to
adopt a sewer use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and
local limits, including required baseline monitoring reports (BMRs) which are
at least as stringent as those set out in §
56.018. The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and limits must be
revised as necessary to reflect changes made to §
56.018 or local limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing utility to submit a revised user
inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including individual wastewater discharge permit issuance,
inspection and sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing
utility; which of these activities will be conducted by the Operational
Manager; and which of these activities will be conducted jointly by the
contributing municipality and the Operational Manager;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing utility to provide the
Operational Manager with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
utility’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing utility’s discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Operational Manager access to the
facilities of users located within the contributing utility’s jurisdictional
boundaries for the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any other duties deemed
necessary by the Operational Manager; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intermunicipal or interjurisdictional agreement.
(Prior Code, § 56.048) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 56.080 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. part 403, whichever is later, existing
categorical industrial users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge
to the POTW shall submit to the Operational Manager a report which contains the
information listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources and sources that become
categorical industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable
categorical standard, shall submit to the Operational Manager a report which
contains the information listed in division (B) below. A new source shall
report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable
categorical standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The user shall provide the information required in §
56.081;
         (b)   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this division
(B);
         (c)   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment, the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream formula in
401 KAR 5:055. KPDES pretreatment requirements shall evaluate compliance with
the pretreatment standards. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has
been calculated in accordance with 401 KAR 5:055, KPDES pretreatment
requirements to this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be
submitted to the Control Authority;
         (d)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with §
56.089;
         (e)   The Operational Manager may allow the submission of a baseline
report which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides
information sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment
measures; and
         (f)   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
      (2)   Compliance certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s
authorized representative as defined in §
56.004 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (3)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule
pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in §
56.081.
      (4)   Signature and report certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be certified in accordance with §
56.092(A) and signed by an authorized representative as defined in §
56.004.
(Prior Code, § 56.055) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015; Ord. 24-12, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 56.081 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
56.080(B)(3):
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Operational Manager no
later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the Operational Manager.
(Prior Code, § 56.056) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.082 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the Operational
Manager an application for wastewater discharge completed on the forms
prescribed by the Operational Manager. For users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in §
56.018, this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term
production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
56.092(A). All sampling will be done in conformance with §
56.089.
(Prior Code, § 56.057) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.083 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   All SIUs and non-significant categorical industrial users are required to
submit periodic compliance reports.
   (A)   All significant industrial users must, at a frequency determined by
the Operational Manager, submit no less than twice per year (June and December)
reports indicating the nature, concentration of pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by pretreatment standards and the measured or estimated
average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period. In cases where the
pretreatment standard requires compliance with a best management practice (BMP)
or pollution prevention alternative, the user must submit documentation
required by the Operational Manager or the pretreatment standard necessary to
determine the compliance status of the user.
   (B)   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
56.092(A).
   (C)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (D)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more
frequently than required by the Operational Manager, using the procedures
prescribed in §
56.089, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Prior Code, § 56.058) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.084 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Operational Manager of any significant changes to
the user’s operations or system which might alter the nature, quality or volume
of its wastewater at least 60 days before the change.
(Prior Code, § 56.059) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.085 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and
notify the Operational Manager of the incident. This notification shall include
the location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if
known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Operational Manager, submit a detailed written report describing
the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to
prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which might be incurred as
a result of damage to the POTW, natural resources or any other damage to person
or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines,
penalties or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the Operational
Manager immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for
a slug discharge.
(Prior Code, § 56.060) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.086 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
shall provide appropriate reports to the Superintendent or as the
Superintendent may require.
(Prior Code, § 56.061) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.087 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the Operational Manager within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The
user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the Operational Manager within 30 days after becoming aware
of the violation. Re-sampling by the industrial user is not required if IMU
performs sampling at the user’s facility at least once a month, or if IMU
performs sampling at the user between the time when the initial sampling was
conducted and the time when the user or IMU receives the results of this
sampling, or if IMU has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
industrial user.
(Prior Code, § 56.062) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.088 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted
as part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136
and amendments thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (B)   If 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical
techniques for the pollutant in question, or where the EPA determines that the
40 C.F.R. part 136 sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses shall be performed by using
validated analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical
procedures, including procedures suggested by the Operational Manager or other
parties approved by EPA.
(Prior Code, § 56.063) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.089 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on data
obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period
covered by the report, based on data that is representative of conditions
occurring during the reporting period.
   (A)   Except as indicated in divisions (B) and (C) below, the user must
collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite sampling
techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the Operational Manager. Where time-proportional composite
sampling or grab sampling is authorized by IMU, the samples must be
representative of the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate
preservation) specified in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance,
multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior
to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols and sulfides, the
samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile
organics and oil and grease, the samples may be composited in the laboratory.
Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures
as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by IMU, as
appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance with
instantaneous limits.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols,
sulfides and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   (C)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in 40 C.F.R. part 403, a minimum of four grab
samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide,
and volatile organic compounds for facilities for which historical sampling
data do not exist; for facilities for which historical sampling data are
available, the Operational Manager may authorize a lower minimum. For the
reports required by 40 C.F.R. part 403, the industrial user is required to
collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance by
with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
(Prior Code, § 56.064) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.090 DATE OF RECEIPT OF REPORTS.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports, which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 56.065) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.091 RECORD KEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter, any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements, and documentation
associated with best management practices established under §
56.081. Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or IMU or the city, or where the user has been specifically notified of a
longer retention period by the Operational Manager.
(Prior Code, § 56.066) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015; Ord. 24-12, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 56.092 CERTIFICATION STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Certification of permit applications, user reports and initial
monitoring waiver. Users submitting baseline monitoring reports under §
56.080(B)(1); users submitting reports on compliance with the categorical
pretreatment standard deadlines under §
56.082; users submitting periodic compliance reports required by §
56.083(A) through (C); and, users submitting an initial request to forego
sampling of a pollutant on the basis of §
56.083, the following certification statement must be signed by an authorized
representative as defined in §
56.004:
“I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   (B)   Annual certification for non-significant categorical industrial users.
A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial user by
the Operational Manager pursuant to division (3) of the definition of
“significant categorical industrial user” under §
56.004 must annually submit the following certification statement signed in
accordance with the signatory requirements in §
56.004. This certification must accompany an alternative report required by the
Operational Manager:
“Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for managing
compliance with the categorical pretreatment standards under 40 C.F.R. ___, I
certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that during the period
from ___, ___ to ___, __ [months, days, year]:
(a)   The facility described as ____________ [facility name] met the definition
of a non-significant categorical industrial user as described in § 56.004;
(b)   The facility complied with all applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements during this reporting period; and
(c)   The facility never discharged more than 100 gallons of total categorical
wastewater on any given day during this reporting period.
This compliance certification is based on the following information.
____________________________________”
   (C)   Certification of pollutants not present. Users that have an approved
monitoring waiver based on §
56.083 must certify on each report with the following statement that there has
been no increase in the pollutant in its wastestream due to activities of the
user.
“Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for managing
compliance with the Pretreatment Standard for 40 C.F.R. ___ [specify applicable
National Pretreatment Standard part(s)], I certify that, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the level of ___ [list
pollutant(s)] in the wastewaters due to the activities at the facility since
filing of the last periodic report under § 56.083(A).”
(Prior Code, § 56.067) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015; Ord. 24-12, passed 2-12-2024)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 56.105 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The Operational Manager, or his or her designee, shall have the right to
enter the premises of any user to determine whether the user is complying with
all requirements of this chapter and any individual wastewater discharge permit
or order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the Operational Manager ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
records examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
   (A)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Operational Manager shall be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   (B)   The Operational Manager shall have the right to set up on the user’s
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user’s operations.
   (C)   The Operational Manager may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated bi-annually to ensure their accuracy.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the Operational Manager and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the user.
   (E)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Operational Manager access to the
user’s premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 56.075) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.106 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Operational Manager has been refused access to a building, structure
or property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
of IMU designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or order
issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare
of the community, the Operational Manager may seek issuance of a search warrant
from the District Court of the county.
(Prior Code, § 56.076) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
56.999
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
§ 56.120 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge permits and
monitoring programs, and from the Operational Manager’s inspection and sampling
activities, shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Operational Manager, that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted at the
time of submission of the information or data. When requested and demonstrated
by the user furnishing a report that such information should be held
confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or
secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public, but
shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies for
uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in enforcement
proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents
and characteristics and other effluent data, as defined at 40 C.F.R. § 2.302
shall not be recognized as confidential information and shall be available to
the public without restriction.
(Prior Code, § 56.080) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE
§ 56.135 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The Operational Manager shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions
served by the POTW, a list of the users which, at
any time during the previous 12 months, were in significant noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. The term SIGNIFICANT
NONCOMPLIANCE shall be applicable to all significant industrial users (or any
other industrial user that violates divisions (C), (D) or (H) below) and shall
mean:
   (A)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter taken during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits as defined
in §
56.004;
   (B)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant parameter
during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
by §
56.004, multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   (C)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by §§
56.015 through
56.020 (daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit or narrative
standard) that the Operational Manager determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
   (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Operational Manager
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   (H)   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of best
management practices, which the Operational Manager determines will adversely
affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(Prior Code, § 56.085) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 56.150 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Operational Manager finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Operational Manager may serve upon that user a written notice
of violation. Within 45 calendar days of the receipt of such notice, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by
the user to the Operational Manager. Submission of such a plan in no way
relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the
authority of the Operational Manager to take any action, including emergency
actions or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of
violation.
(Prior Code, § 56.090) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.151 CONSENT ORDERS.
   IMU may enter into consent orders, assurances of compliance or other similar
documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible for
noncompliance. Such documents shall include specific action to be taken by the
user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the
document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
56.153 and
56.154 and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Prior Code, § 56.091) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.152 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The Operational Manager may order a user which has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, to appear before the Operational Manager and show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the
user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement
action, the reasons for such action and a request that the user show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least 21 days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on
any authorized representative of the user as defined in §
56.004 and required by §
56.150. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 56.092) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015; Ord. 24-12, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 56.153 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Operational Manager finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Operational Manager may issue an order to the user responsible
for the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a
specified time. If the user does not come into compliance within the time
provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are installed and properly
operated. Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address the
noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management practices
designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A
compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a
pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the
user of liability for any violation, including any continuing violation.
Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 56.093) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.154 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   When the Operational Manager finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the
Operational Manager may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and
desist all such violations and directing the user to:
   (A)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   (B)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and desist
order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 56.094) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.155 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Operational Manager finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Operational Manager may fine such user in an amount not to
exceed $1,000 per day that said violation exists. Such fines shall be assessed
on a per-violation, per-day basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term
average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during the
period of violation.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall, after 30 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 18% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 1.5% per month. A lien against the user’s
property shall be sought for unpaid charges, fines and penalties. User shall be
responsible for, and pay, all attorney fees and court costs incurred in
enforcing said penalties or liens.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Operational Manager to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the
fine amount within ten days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has
merit, the Operational Manager may convene a hearing on the matter. In the
event the user’s appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest
accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user. The Operational Manager may
add the costs of preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices
and orders, to the fine.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 56.095) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.156 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Operational Manager may immediately suspend a user’s discharge,
after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to
stop an actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably appears to present, or
cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons. The Operational Manager may also immediately suspend a user’s
discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere
with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an
endangerment to the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Operational Manager may take such steps as deemed necessary, including
immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to
the POTW, its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The
Operational Manager may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the
user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Operational Manager that the
period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings in §
56.157 are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Operational Manager prior to the date of
any show cause or termination hearing under §§
56.152 or
56.157.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Prior Code, § 56.096) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.157 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in this subchapter, entitled
“Administrative Enforcement Remedies,” any user who violates the following
conditions is subject to discharge termination:
      (1)   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit or general
permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
56.015 through
56.020.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
56.152 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the Operational Manager shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking
any other action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 56.097) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015; Ord. 24-12, passed 2-12-2024)
JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 56.170 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the Operational Manager finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Operational Manager may petition the Circuit Court, or any
other court of competent jurisdiction through the city/IMU’s attorney for the
issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which
restrains or compels the specific performance of the individual wastewater
discharge permit, order or other requirement imposed by this chapter on
activities of the user. The Operational Manager may also seek such other action
as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a requirement
for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive
relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against a user.
(Prior Code, § 56.105) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.171 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The Operational
Manager may take any, all or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with IMU’s enforcement response plan. However, the Operational
Manager may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant.
Further, the Operational Manager is empowered to take more than one enforcement
action against any noncompliant user.
(Prior Code, § 56.108) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 56.185 UPSET.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C) below are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five days):
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Prior Code, § 56.115) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.186 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
56.015(A) or the specific prohibitions in §
56.015(B)(3) through (B)(17) if it can prove that it did not know, or have
reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges
from other sources, would cause pass through or interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when IMU was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Prior Code, § 56.116) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.187 BYPASS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   Generally. A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   Bypass notifications.
      (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Operational Manager, at least ten days before the
date of the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Operational Manager of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The Operational Manager may waive the written
report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24
hours.
   (D)   Bypass.
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Operational Manager may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C) above.
      (2)   The Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Operational Manager determines that it
will meet the three conditions listed in division (D)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 56.117) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
56.999
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 56.200 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   IMU may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and
operating IMU’s pretreatment program, which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost
of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user’s discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports and certification statements submitted by users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals;
   (E)   Fees to recover administrative and legal costs associated with the
enforcement activity taken by the Operational Manager to address IU
noncompliance; and
   (F)   Other fees as IMU may deem necessary to carry out the requirements
contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this
chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines and penalties chargeable by
IMU.
(Prior Code, § 56.125) (Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed
1-12-2015)
§ 56.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to
the city for a maximum civil penalty of $1,000 per violation, per day. In the
case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall
accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
      (2)   The Operational Manager may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees,
court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement activities,
including sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages
incurred by IMU.
      (3)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user and any other factor as
justice requires.
      (4)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Prior Code, § 56.106)
   (C)   Criminal prosecution.
      (1)   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder,
or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 per
violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than 365 days for each
violation, or charge, or both.
      (2)   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into
the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of a
fine not more than $1,000 per violation, or be subject to imprisonment for not
more than 365 days per violation, or charge, or both. This penalty shall be in
addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or property damage
available under state law.
      (3)   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter, individual
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies,
tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of
not more than $1,000 per violation, or be subject to imprisonment for not more
than 365 days per violation, or charge, or both. This penalty shall be in
addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or property damage
available under state law.
      (4)   In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by a
fine not more than $1,000 per violation, or be subject to imprisonment for not
more than 365 days per violation, or charge, or both. This penalty shall be in
addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or property damage
available under state law.
(Prior Code, § 56.107)
(Ord. 2011-52-02, passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-12-2015)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   General penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the BOULEVARD.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and other portions of the roadway between two
intersections that may be legally designated as crossing places and marked by
stanchions, paint lines or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles, whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not
one street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this Traffic Code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and
footpaths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in a manner as to proceed in
the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street, improved, designated or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on any street, except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this Traffic
Code.
   (B)   The provisions of this Traffic Code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county or city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any
of the provisions of this Traffic Code, except as otherwise permitted in this
Traffic Code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this Traffic Code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this Traffic Code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this Traffic Code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this Traffic Code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this Traffic Code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle or any other signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose traffic regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks.
If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two
weeks, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the extended
order.
(Prior Code, § 70.05)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits
either turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the
signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at
another point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at another point as
may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed until
it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by the
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way.” Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane, all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above the lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at that place prohibits
the turn.
(Prior Code, § 70.20) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Accident involving death or serious injury; penalty for not reporting, see
KRS 189.990
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
(Prior Code, § 70.21)
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this Traffic Code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate or watchperson at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by
a police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.23) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic device or
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal or any commercial advertising. Nothing in
this section shall be construed as restricting any public department or public
utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or erecting
any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the city.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
(Prior Code, § 70.24) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this Traffic Code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
(Prior Code, § 70.25)
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency, any police officer may at his or her discretion disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.26)
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this Traffic Code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.001   Obstructing traffic
   
71.002   Reverse or U-turns
   
71.003   Backing vehicles
   
71.004   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.015   Duty of operator
   
71.016   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.030   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.031   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.032   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.045   Definitions
   
71.046   Permit required
   
71.047   Application for permit
   
71.048   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.049   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.050   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.051   Alternative permit
   
71.052   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.053   Contents of permit
   
71.054   Duties of permittee
   
71.055   Public conduct during parades
   
71.056   Revocation of permit
Operation of Golf Carts on Public Roadways
   
71.070   Definitions
   
71.071   City authorized to regulate
   
71.072   Requirements of golf carts operated on public roadways
   
71.073   Requirements for operation
   
71.074   Insurance required
   
71.075   Operation subject to traffic regulations of KRS Chapter 189
   
71.076   Golf carts exempted
   
71.077   Crossing of state maintained highways
   
71.078   Limitation of regulations
 
   
71.999   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.001 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in a manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   (1)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance.
      (2)   Should the operator of any vehicle enter any intersection so marked
when there is insufficient room on the other side of the intersection to
accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-control signal
notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this division
rather than division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 71.001) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.002 REVERSE OR U-TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 71.002) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the
vehicle at any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement.
   (B)   A vehicle from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in
a manner as to proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction
of travel.
(Prior Code, § 71.003) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.004 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive
the vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building or lot and across a sidewalk,
or its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension.
      (2)   On entering the roadway from the alley, driveway or building, the
operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
      (3)   The operator of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn
into an alley from the roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
(Prior Code, § 71.004) Penalty, see §
71.999
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.015 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident, in which any person is injured or
property damaged, to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render any assistance as may be needed.
(Prior Code, § 71.015) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.016 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 71.016) Penalty, see §
71.999
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.030 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) (Prior Code, § 71.030) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.031 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle
or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way,
immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as possible to the
edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain in
that position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep that position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall either, while
proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions.
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) (Prior Code, § 71.031) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.032 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) (Prior Code, § 71.032) Penalty, see §
71.999
PARADES
§ 71.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any PARADE, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park or
other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.045)
§ 71.046 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 71.046) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.047 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by the
official.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   Application. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by and on behalf of or for
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 71.047) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.048 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of or ambulance service to areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire; and
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
(Prior Code, § 71.048) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.049 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 71.049)
§ 71.050 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
(Prior Code, § 71.050)
§ 71.051 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of and shall have the effect of a parade permit
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.051)
§ 71.052 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.052)
§ 71.053 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.053) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.054 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.054) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.055 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.055)
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.007
§ 71.056 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 71.056)
OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON PUBLIC ROADWAYS
§ 71.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. Any self-propelled vehicle that:
      (1)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising
the play of golf or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
      (2)   Has a minimum of four wheels;
      (3)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than 35 mph;
      (4)   Is designed to carry not more than six persons including the
driver;
      (5)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
      (6)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of 1,200 pounds; and
      (7)   Meets the federal motor vehicle safety standards for low-speed
vehicles set forth in 49 C.F.R. § 571.500.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A city, county, charter county government, urban-county
government, consolidated local government, unified local government or a
special district.
(Prior Code, § 71.070) (Ord. 09-, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 71.071 CITY AUTHORIZED TO REGULATE.
   The city is authorized to regulate the operation of a golf cart on any
public roadway under its jurisdiction that lies within five road miles of an
entrance to a golf course specifying roadways that are open for golf cart use
and the City Council authorizes the use of golf carts on all roads within its
jurisdictional boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 71.071) (Ord. 09-, passed 6-8-2009; Ord. 24-13, passed 2-12-
2024)
§ 71.072 REQUIREMENTS OF GOLF CARTS OPERATED ON PUBLIC ROADWAYS.
   Regulations created under §
71.071 of this subchapter shall require that a golf cart operated on a
designated public roadway:
   (A)   Be inspected by a certified inspector designated by the City Police
Chief and certified through the Department of Vehicle Regulation to ensure that
the golf cart complies with the requirements of this section. The inspection
fee under this division (A) shall not exceed $5 with an additional fee not to
exceed $10 per trip charged if it becomes necessary for the certified inspector
to travel to the site of the golf cart rather than having the golf cart brought
to the Police Department’s inspection area; and
   (B)   Golf carts which bear an official permit issued by the city shall be
numbered and affixed to the lower left side (driver’s side) of the windshield
of the vehicle. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall prepare an application form for
the special permit and charge a yearly fee of $25 for each permit issued
annually beginning (date). Subsequent renewals of the permit shall be due on or
before July 1 of each year. There shall be no proration of the fee for any
permit issued after July 1 and all permits issued after July 1 shall expire on
the next July 1 following. Insurance and proof of inspection by a certified
inspector shall be presented prior to issuance of an official permit.
(Prior Code, § 71.072) (Ord. 09-, passed 6-8-2009; Ord. 10-75, passed 1-25-
2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.073 REQUIREMENTS FOR OPERATION.
   (A)   A person may operate a golf cart on a public roadway pursuant to §
71.071 of this subchapter if:
      (1)   The posted speed limit of the designated public roadway is 35 mph
or less;
      (2)   The operator of the golf cart does not cross a roadway at an
intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed limit of more
than 35 mph;
      (3)   The operator has a valid operator’s license in his or her
possession;
      (4)   The golf cart is being operated between sunrise and sunset; and
      (5)   The golf cart displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance
with KRS 189.820.
   (B)   All motorized golf carts must be complete with rear view mirrors,
lights (including brake lights, head lights and turn signals) and brakes. Each
golf cart will be equipped with seat belts and each passenger must be secured
with a seat belt.
(Prior Code, § 71.073) (Ord. 09-, passed 6-8-2009) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.074 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   A golf cart operating on a public roadway under §
71.071 of this subchapter shall be insured in compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by
the owner or operator, and the proof of insurance shall be inside the golf cart
at all times of operation on a public roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.074) (Ord. 09-, passed 6-8-2009) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.075 OPERATION SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS OF KRS CHAPTER 189.
   Any person operating a golf cart on a public roadway under the provisions of
this section shall be subject to the traffic regulations of KRS Chapter 189.
(Prior Code, § 71.075) (Ord. 09-, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 71.076 GOLF CARTS EXEMPTED.
   A golf cart operating on a public roadway designated by a local government
under §
71.071 of this subchapter is not considered to be motor a vehicle and is exempt
from:
   (A)   Title requirements of KRS 186.020;
   (B)   Vehicle registration requirements of KRS 186.050; and
   (C)   Emissions compliance certificates pursuant to KRS 224.20-720.
(Prior Code, § 71.076) (Ord. 09-, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 71.077 CROSSING OF STATE MAINTAINED HIGHWAYS.
   The Transportation Cabinet may prohibit the operation of a golf cart on a
public roadway designated under §
71.071 of this subchapter that crosses a state-maintained highway under its
jurisdiction if it determines that the prohibition is necessary in the interest
of public safety.
(Prior Code, § 71.077) (Ord. 09-, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 71.078 LIMITATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to a golf cart that is not
used on a public roadway except to cross a roadway while following a golf cart
path on a golf course.
(Prior Code, § 71.078) (Ord. 09-, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.031 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60
nor more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30
days, or both.
(KRS 189.993(8))
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
71.070 through
71.078 shall, upon conviction of a first offense, be fined not less than $100,
nor more than $250. Any person convicted of a subsequent violation of §§
71.070 through
71.078 within two years of a prior conviction shall be fined not less than
$250, nor more than $500.
   (D)   All persons and vehicles in violation of the following shall be guilty
of a violation and shall incur the designated fines:
 
Violation                             Fine
Cars without mufflers or with loud    Not less than $10, nor more than $100
mufflers
Repair of automobiles on city streets $25
Speeding                              $25
 
(Prior Code, § 71.999) (Ord. passed 8-23-1971; Ord. 09-, passed 6-8-2009)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.001   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.002   Manner of parking
   
72.003   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.004   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.005   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.006   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.007   Parking on parade route
   
72.008   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.009   Owner responsibility
   
72.010   Parking in parks
   
72.011   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.012   Parking with permits for persons with a disability
   
72.013   Holiday parking
   
72.014   Emergency vehicles exempted
   
72.015   Additional parking regulations
   
72.016   Parking in business lots after business hours
Designated Parking Areas
   
72.030   Designation of parking areas
   
72.031   Metered parking; optional annual fee
   
72.032   Issuance of permit; transferability
   
72.033   Cost of metered spaces
   
72.034   Unmetered spaces; no parking zones
   
72.035   Installation; construction of meters
   
72.036   Manner of parking; deposit of coins
   
72.037   Maximum parking time
   
72.038   Hours of operation
   
72.039   Slugs
   
72.040   Tampering and the like
   
72.041   Notice of violation
Impounding
   
72.055   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.056   Required notice to owner
   
72.057   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.070   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.071   Termination of emergency
   
72.072   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS 65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.001 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction or hindrance in or on any street,
alley or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
(Prior Code, § 72.001) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.002 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side, the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading; provided that the
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. This backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the centerline of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the centerline of any street. The diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which the vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park the
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.003 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (3)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (4)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk;
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (6)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (7)   On any controlled access highway;
      (8)   Within a highway tunnel;
      (9)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; or
      (10)   On an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
(KRS 189.450(5))
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(6))
(Prior Code, § 72.003) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.004 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this Traffic Code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to parking for persons with a disability, appropriate signs shall be erected
giving notice thereof. However, in lieu of erecting the signs or in conjunction
therewith, the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking
is prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the signs
have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the time
of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions which
by their very nature would not require the signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
(Prior Code, § 72.004) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.005 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
(Prior Code, § 72.005) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.006 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 72.006) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.007 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of the signs or directions.
(Prior Code, § 72.007) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.008 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee or person in charge of the property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) above, the owner, lessee or person in charge of
the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle removed in
accordance with the provisions of §§
72.055 through
72.057.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that an unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the
owner’s expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 72.008) Penalty, see §
72.999
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.009 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
(Prior Code, § 72.009) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.010 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot or tot lot within the city not
designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a roadway.
However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and regularly
maintained roadway in any park or playground where at least two wheels of the
motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 72.010) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.011 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
(Prior Code, § 72.011) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.012 PARKING WITH PERMITS FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for persons with a disability, when operated by a
person with a disability or when transporting a handicapped person, may be
parked in an appropriately designated parking place, or when parked in a
metered parking space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked
where any parking limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the
parking limit. The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that
period of time necessary to permit entrance or exit of the person with a
disability to or from the parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than
30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “No Stopping” or “No
Parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in a manner as to constitute a
traffic hazard.
(Prior Code, § 72.012) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.013 HOLIDAY PARKING.
   All metered areas along Broadway and Main Street in the city will be treated
as two-hour free parking areas during the Christmas holiday season beginning
December 8 to January 2 of each year. During this time, parking will be free
for two hours. After the vehicle has been parked for two hours, it is not
moved, it will be subject to a fine of $5.
(Prior Code, § 72.013) (Ord. 80-10-27, passed 10-27-1980) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.014 EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXEMPTED.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to emergency vehicles
when performing a function for which they are operated; but in other cases, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply to emergency vehicles, including police,
ambulances, fire and other emergency vehicles not performing their designated
function. The City Council may provide from time to time by minutes parking
spaces for emergency vehicles, which spaces shall be clearly marked by signs
and the spaces shall be considered no parking spaces by other vehicles.
   (B)   Functions which are permitted in this section for emergency vehicles
except as may be posted are as follows:
      (1)   Ambulances. Picking up or discharging patients under any
circumstances;
      (2)   Fire vehicles. The performance of firefighting duties; inspections,
if no other space is available and traffic is not blocked; if ready access to
the vehicle is necessary for the performance of those duties; and the
recharging of materials at hydrants. This does not include ordinary maintenance
such as washing or mechanical work; and
      (3)   City police vehicles. When upon a call; traffic-control; at the
scene of an accident; investigations if not other space is available and
traffic is not blocked; if ready access to the vehicle is necessary for the
performance of those duties; and the placement as may be necessary to assist
other emergency services including traffic-control. This does not include
maintenance of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.014) (Ord. 91-7, passed 8-12-1991) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.015 ADDITIONAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any motor vehicle,
including, but not limited to, trucks, vans or trailers, and those weighing
over 10,000 pounds, or exceeding 22 feet in length, to be parked on any public
street or highway in the city for more than two hours at any one time, at any
given location, nor shall any vehicle park in more than one marked parking
space.
   (B)   No motor vehicle, including, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks,
vans, trailers and the like shall be parked on any public street or highway in
the city which vehicle contains or transports any dangerous or hazardous
materials or substance, or which shall haul, transport or have loaded thereon,
any material or substance which is not covered.
(Prior Code, § 72.015) (Ord. 02-04, passed 4-23-2001) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.016 PARKING IN BUSINESS LOTS AFTER BUSINESS HOURS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any business parking lot
after the closing hours of the business if the lot or the window of the
business is marked by a sign stating: “No parking from a designated time until
a designated time.”
(Prior Code, § 72.016) (Ord. 7-79-2, passed 9-10-1979) Penalty, see §
72.999
DESIGNATED PARKING AREAS
§ 72.030 DESIGNATION OF PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Parking areas on the city streets and other ways within the city shall
be designated by appropriate resolution of the City Council, which areas shall
be marked either by signs with instructions and limitations or parking meters.
   (B)   The areas may be changed from time to time by the City Council as
circumstances dictate.
(Prior Code, § 72.030) (Ord. passed 1-19-1990; Ord. 91-7, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 72.031 METERED PARKING; OPTIONAL ANNUAL FEE.
   (A)   The city shall extend parking privileges to any person for any one
vehicle at a time at metered spaces without the payment at the meter, in
exchange for the payment of $50 per year.
   (B)   The payment shall be for a period from July 1 of each year, to June 30
of the following year, which period shall correspond with the fiscal year of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 72.031) (Ord. passed 1-19-1990; Ord. 91-7, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 72.032 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; TRANSFERABILITY.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall, upon payment of the fee, issue a permit to
be attached to the vehicle taking advantage of the privilege and the permit may
be moved from vehicle to vehicle so long as only one vehicle at a time is
taking advantage of the permit. The permit must be attached to the rear view
mirror or such as it can be viewed through the front windshield by a person
standing at the front of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.032) (Ord. passed 1-19-1990; Ord. 91-7, passed 8-12-1991)
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.033 COST OF METERED SPACES.
   All metered spaces shall bear a cost as approved by the City Council and
posted on the meters.
(Prior Code, § 72.033) (Ord. passed 1-19-1990; Ord. 91-7, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 72.034 UNMETERED SPACES; NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Parking spaces other than those metered shall be as approved by the
minutes of the City Council and as posted by sign with appropriate restrictions
and limitations thereon. All areas marked by yellow paint shall be
automatically a no parking zone.
   (B)   There shall be no parking at any other space or at any other location
on any city street, thoroughfare or other right-of-way, including alleys,
unless posted, metered or otherwise indicated.
(Prior Code, § 72.034) (Ord. passed 1-19-1990; Ord. 91-7, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 72.035 INSTALLATION; CONSTRUCTION OF METERS.
   (A)   The Mayor and the Street Committee of the City Council shall provide
for the installation of parking meters, including curb and street marking
lines, regulation and the operation thereof, and shall cause the meters to be
maintained in good workable condition.
   (B)   Meters shall be placed upon, adjacent to or near the curb next to
individual parking places, and meters shall be so constructed as to display a
signal showing legal parking upon deposit therein of the proper coin or coins,
of the United States as indicated by instructions on the meters, and for the
period of time conforming to the parking limits of the city, the signal to
remain in evidence until expiration of the parking period so designated, at
which time a change of signal or some other mechanical operation shall indicate
the expiration of the parking period.
(Prior Code, § 72.035) (Ord. 7-79-1, passed 9-10-1979)
§ 72.036 MANNER OF PARKING; DEPOSIT OF COINS.
   (A)   When any vehicle shall be parked next to a parking meter the owner or
operator of the vehicle shall park within the area designated by the curb or
street marking lines as indicated for parking, and upon entering the parking
space shall immediately deposit in the meter one or more official coins of the
United States of an amount as indicated by instructions on the meter. This
shall be deemed a license fee for the use of the parking space. It shall be
unlawful for any person to fail to park within the designated area or fail or
neglect to so deposit proper coin or coins.
   (B)   The parking space may then be used by the vehicle during the legal
parking limit provided by the ordinances of the city and as indicated by the
instructions on the meter, and the vehicle shall be considered as unlawfully
parked if it remains in the space beyond the legal parking limit and/or when
the parking meter displays a signal showing illegal parking. It shall be
unlawful for any person to cause or permit any vehicle registered in his or her
name to be unlawfully parked as set out in this section.
(Prior Code, § 72.036) (Ord. 7-79-1, passed 9-10-1979) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.037 MAXIMUM PARKING TIME.
   The maximum legal parking time in each of the parking meter zones shall be
two hours or other time and at rates for parking time as indicated by
instructions on each meter.
(Prior Code, § 72.037) (Ord. 7-79-1, passed 9-10-1979)
§ 72.038 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The provisions of §§
72.035 through
72.041 shall be applicable between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. each
day, except Sundays and legal holidays.
(Prior Code, § 72.038) (Ord. 7-79-1, passed 9-10-1979)
§ 72.039 SLUGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or cause to be deposited in
any parking meter, any slug, device or metallic substitute for a coin of the
United States.
(Prior Code, § 72.039) (Ord. 7-79-1, passed 9-10-1979) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.040 TAMPERING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, open, willfully break or
destroy any parking meter.
(Prior Code, § 72.040) (Ord. 7-79-1, passed 9-10-1979) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.041 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   It shall be the duty of police officers to take the parking meter number and
the state vehicle tag or license number of all persons violating the provisions
of §§
72.035 through
72.041, and place a parking or traffic violation card or ticket in or upon the
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.041) (Ord. 7-79-1, passed 9-10-1979)
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.055 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department, a warrant shall be issued immediately
for the violator’s arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
(Prior Code, § 72.055)
§ 72.056 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority, or private person or
business for any reason; when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated,
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority or by private person or business; or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority, or by private person or business, the police, other authority,
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the State
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 and within
ten business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify
the registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license
number and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of the
vehicle, and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) above is placed in a garage or
other storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the
notice provided in division (A) above by certified mail to the registered owner
at the address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as
defined in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of recovery of or taking
possession of the motor vehicle. This notice shall contain the information as
to the make, model, license number and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, the location of the vehicle and the amount of reasonable charges for
towing, recovery, storage, transporting and other applicable charges due on the
vehicle. When the owner of the facility fails to provide notice as provided
herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall forfeit all storage fees
accrued after ten business days from the date of tow. This division (B) shall
not apply to a tow lot or storage facility owned or operated by the city.
(Prior Code, § 72.056)
§ 72.057 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has
complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928, shall have a lien
on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in division (B)
below, for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in accordance with
KRS 281.926 and 281.932, as long as it remains in his or her possession.
      (2)   If after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932 have not been paid, the
motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in division (B) below, may
be sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have been
notified by certified mail at the addresses specified by KRS 281.928(1) ten
days prior to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of
any vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued
charges, the sale and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or
release of responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or
responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this
division (A)(2) shall be subject to prior recorded liens unless released by any
existing lienholder pursuant to division (A)(3) below.
      (3)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail
within the first ten days of impoundment in accordance with state law. Such
notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928, shall include the
make, model, license number, vehicle identification number, owner’s name and
last known address, and tentative date of sale for the vehicle, and state that
the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain a new title free and
clear of any liens, excluding tax liens. If the above-referenced certified
letter is not sent within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then
only ten days of storage may be charged. The lien holder has the right to take
possession of the motor vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and
paying the reasonable or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor
vehicle. If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession of the
motor vehicle under this division within 45 days of notification, and all
lienholders agree in writing, the tow company or storage facility may obtain a
new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle subject to a
lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190.
      (4)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under division
(A)(3) above, and the owner does not exercise the right to take possession of
the motor vehicle under this section within 45 days of notification required by
state law, the tow company or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS
186A.145 free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to the following contents of a
motor vehicle, which shall be released to the vehicle owner or the owner’s
designated agent upon request, if the request is made within 45 days of the
date the vehicle was towed:
      (1)   Prescription medication in its proper container;
      (2)   Personal medical supplies and equipment or records;
      (3)   Educational materials, including but not limited to calculators,
books, papers and school supplies;
      (4)   Documents, files, electronic devices or equipment which may be able
to store personal information or information relating to a person’s employment
or business;
      (5)   Firearms and ammunition. Notwithstanding the provisions of division
(C) below, firearms and ammunition which are not claimed by the owner of the
vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed shall be transferred
to the Department of Kentucky State Police for disposition as provided by KRS
16.220;
      (6)   Cargo in the possession of persons engaged in transportation in
interstate commerce as registered under KRS 186.020;
      (7)   Cargo in the possession of an integrated intermodal small package
carrier as defined by KRS 281.605(12);
      (8)   Child restraint systems or child booster seats; and
      (9)   Checks, checkbooks, debit or credit cards, money orders, stocks, or
bonds.
   (C)   Except as provided for in division (B)(5) above, any contents exempted
under division (B) above that are not claimed by the owner of the vehicle
within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed may be sold or otherwise
legally disposed of by the storage or towing company. Any contents exempted
under division (B) above that are not claimed by the owner of the vehicle
within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed shall not be sold, but shall
be otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing company.
   (D)   The storage or towing company shall not be responsible for contents in
a vehicle’s trunk or other locked compartment to which the storage or towing
company is without access, unless the towing company intentionally opens the
area without the owner’s consent.
   (E)   This section shall not apply when a local government causes a vehicle
to be towed pursuant to KRS 82.605 to 82.640 or if state government causes a
vehicle to be towed.
(KRS 376.275) (Prior Code, § 72.057)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.070 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds
that falling snow, sleet or freezing rain will create a condition which makes
it necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that parking be prohibited, he or she is
authorized to announce the prohibition, to become effective at a time specified
by him or her.
   (B)   After the effective time of the prohibition, no person shall park any
vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route.
However, if a fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and
prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is
to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency
route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following the fall.
   (C)   The prohibition of parking announced by the Chief of Police or other
authorized city official under the authority of this section shall remain in
effect until he or she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part
or in which the prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no
longer be in effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.070) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.071 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
If the announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it
shall be repeated between those hours.
(Prior Code, § 72.071)
§ 72.072 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On a street or highway designated
as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.072)
§ 72.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount
not less than $20 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(KRS 189.990(1))
    (C)   (1)   All persons and vehicles in violation of the following shall be
guilty of a violation and shall incur the designated fines:
 
Violation                                                              Fine
Overtime parking                                                        
   If paid within 72 hours                                          $1
   If paid after 72 hours                                           $10
Parking in a no parking area                                           $10
Parking in zone for persons with a disability without permit displayed $25
Parking or stopping of cars at crosswalks                              $5
 
      (2)   If an imposed fine is not paid within seven days, the Chief of
Police shall make a complaint and file same with the County District Court.
   (D)   All fines shall be in addition to removal costs and storage, and if
not paid, shall be subject to recovery by all remedies provided, including, but
not limited to, citation before the courts of the state.
   (E)   Each two hours a vehicle is in violation of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates any provision of §
72.015 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be punished by a fine of $25
for each offense. Each two-hour period the provision of §
72.015 may be violated shall be considered as a separate offense. If the fine
is not paid within 24 hours of issuance of a citation, the fine shall increase
by the sum of $10 per day for each day it remains unpaid.
   (G)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §
72.016 concerning the parking of motor vehicles in business parking lots after
hours, and for which a citation is issued shall be fined $5 for each offense.
The fine shall be paid to the Police Department within seven days after the
citation therefore is issued. If the fine is not paid within seven days, the
citing officer shall make a complaint to the District Court, and the violation
shall constitute a misdemeanor.
      (2)   The fact that a vehicle which is illegally parked is registered in
the name of a person shall constitute a prima facie presumption that the
registered owner was in control of the vehicle at the time of parking.
   (H)   (1) Any person who shall violate or permit or allow anyone to violate
any section of §§
72.035 through
72.041 may present the parking violation or traffic violation ticket, that has
been placed upon his or her vehicle to the Police Department dispatcher or
place the provided ticket envelope in one of the meter boxes within 24 hours
after the citation therefore is issued, and pay to the Police Department
dispatcher or seal in the ticket envelope the sum of $0.50 as the penalty for
the violation, or the sum of $2.50 if presented and paid within 72 hours of the
violation. If the same is not paid within the period of 72 hours, a complaint
shall be made to the District Court, and the violation shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
      (2)   The fact that a vehicle which is parked in violation of §§
72.035 through
72.041 is registered in the name of a person shall constitute a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was in control of the vehicle at the time
of the parking.
(Prior Code, § 72.999) (Ord. 7-79-1, passed 9-10-1979; Ord. 7-79-2, passed 9-
10-1979; Ord. 91-7, passed 8-12-1991; Ord. 02-04, passed 4-23-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Accident involving death or serious injury; penalty for not reporting, see
KRS 189.990
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on the bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as play streets by
the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful for
any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any kind to
go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board or fenders of
any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 73.99)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following streets or portions of streets are hereby designated as one-
way streets:
 
Street   Direction Extent                    Ord. No. Date Passed
Broadway East      Estill Avenue to Sycamore 4-79     4-23-1979
or such other streets as may be designated by executive order of the Mayor
from time to time
 
(Prior Code,
Chapter 75, Schedule I) (Ord. 24-14, passed 2-12-2024) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibited
      
II.   Parking restricted
      
III.   Parking in fire lanes
      
IV.   Parking meters and vending of produce and/or merchandise
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on the
following streets or portions thereof.
 
Street                Location                      Side Ord. No. Date Passed
                      From the Irvine-Ravenna city
River Drive (Kentucky line west to the intersection Both 90-2     1-19-1990
Highway #52)          of Court Street and River
                      Drive
or such other streets as may be designated by executive order of the Mayor
from time to time
 
      (2)   Any vehicle found in violation of division (A)(1) above by the city
police or any other law enforcement official shall be immediately towed at the
expense of the owner.
   (B)   Parking meters may be erected on such streets as are designated by
executive order of the Mayor from time to time and in addition to the following
streets and portions of streets and, when so erected, the provisions of this
division (B) shall be applicable thereto.
 
Street             Side Extent                             Ord. No. Date Passed
Broadway           Both From Main Street to Public Library 7-79-1   9-10-1979
Main Street        East From Board of Education to Bridge  7-79-1   9-10-1979
                  West From Board of Education to River   7-79-1   9-10-1979
                        Drive
                        From River Drive to Church Street;
North Court Street Both on West side 10 meters beyond      7-79-1   9-10-1979
                        Church Street
River Drive        Both From Main Street to Court Street   7-79-1   9-10-1979
And any other streets as may be designated by executive order of the Mayor from
time to time
 
(Prior Code,
Chapter 74, Schedule I) (Ord. 24-15, passed 2-12-2024) Penalty, see §
72.999
SCHEDULE II. PARKING RESTRICTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places.
 
Street                           Restriction               Ord. No. Date Passed
From Sycamore Street to the city With the left side of the 4-79     9-10-1979
limits                           vehicle next to the curb
On Broadway from Main Street to  With the left side of the 4-79     9-10-1979
Estill Avenue                    vehicle next to the curb
On Main Street and River Drive   With the left side of the 4-79     9-10-1979
within the city limits           vehicle next to the curb
and on such other streets as may be established by the executive order of the
Mayor from time to time
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedule II) (Ord. 24-15, passed 2-12-2024) Penalty,
see §
72.999
SCHEDULE III. PARKING IN FIRE LANES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park or stop motor vehicles in fire lanes on
the following public streets and such other streets as may be designated by
executive order of the Mayor from time to time:
 
Street          Ord. No. Date Passed
Cantrill Street -        8-23-1971
Oak Street      -        8-23-1971
Peyton Street   -        8-23-1971
Stevens Street  -        8-23-1971
Sycamore Street -        8-23-1971
 
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or stop motor vehicles in fire lanes
where same may be established in the future by executive order of the Mayor and
by the posting of “No Parking, Fire Lane” signs, and/or by painting yellow
lines on curbs. It shall be unlawful to park on yellow lines on the public
streets of the city, as well as on red lines.
   (C)   Violation of these restrictions shall constitute a misdemeanor which
shall be punishable upon conviction by a fine of $50.
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedule III) (Ord. 24-15, passed 2-12-2024)
SCHEDULE IV. PARKING METERS AND VENDING OF PRODUCE AND/OR MERCHANDISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to vend produce and/or merchandise
from vehicles at parking meter locations within the downtown district of the
city, the district being an area bounded on the north by Old Richmond Road, on
the south by the Kentucky River, on the west by Collins Street and on the east
by Estill Avenue, except that it shall be lawful to do so, subject to
compliance with applicable occupational license tax regulations of the city, on
the north side of River Drive between Estill Avenue and Main Street.
   (B)   Violation of this restriction shall constitute a misdemeanor, and any
person convicted of violating this restriction shall pay a fine in an amount
not less than $20, and not more than $50 for each violation, or shall be
confined in the county jail for a term not to exceed 30 days. Each day in which
any violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense, and continued
violation on the same date, after an arrest has been effected, shall be deemed
to be a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating this restriction shall become liable to the city
for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of the violation.
(Prior Code, Chapter 74, Schedule IV) (Ord. passed 6-28-1965)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
      
95.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Torture of dogs or cats
   
90.05   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.06   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.07   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
Dogs
   
90.20   Definition
   
90.21   License required
   
90.22   Registration and issuance of license
   
90.23   License tag to be attached to dog
   
90.24   Dogs running at large
   
90.25   Noise disturbance
   
90.26   Impoundment
   
90.27   Reclaiming impounded dog
Vicious Dogs
   
90.40   Definitions
   
90.41   Registration
   
90.42   Confinement
   
90.43   Leash and muzzle
   
90.44   Signs
   
90.45   Dog fighting
Non-Domestic Animals
   
90.60   Prohibitions
   
90.61   Exemptions
   
90.62   Rabbits
   
90.63   Proper care
   
90.64   Chicken and other fowl
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner or his or
her agent.
(KRS 257.010(1))
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by the animal upon the premises
of another.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including, but not limited to,
being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal is caused to
fight for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other
than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space
or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division (A) shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including, but not
limited to, horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act, being 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., or
subject to other federal laws governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) (Prior Code, § 90.03) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Torture of dogs or cats, see §
90.04
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 TORTURE OF DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires,
TORTURE means the intentional infliction of or subjection to extreme physical
pain or injury, motivated by an intent to increase or prolong the pain of the
animal.
   (B)   A person is guilty of torture of a dog or cat when he or she without
legal justification intentionally tortures a domestic dog or cat.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing or injuring of a
dog or cat:
      (1)   In accordance with a license to hunt, fish or trap;
      (2)   For humane purposes;
      (3)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering or cosmetic
purposes;
      (4)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including, but not
limited to, training for organized dog or cat shows, or other animal shows in
which a dog or a cat, or both, participate;
      (5)   For bona fide animal research activities, using dogs or cats, of
institutions of higher education; or a business entity registered with the
United States Department of Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject
to other federal laws governing animal research;
      (6)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased dog or cat;
      (7)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
dog or cat;
      (8)   For animal or pest control; or
      (9)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (D)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife Resources shall not constitute a violation of this section.
   (E)   The acts specified in this section shall not constitute cruelty to
animals under KRS 525.125 or 525.130.
(KRS 525.135) (Prior Code, § 90.04) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Torture of dogs and cats resulting in physical injury, second and subsequent
offenses, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.135
   Torture of dogs and cats resulting in serious physical injury or death, a
Class D felony, see KRS 525.135
§ 90.05 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) (Prior Code, § 90.05) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.06) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer or any person authorized by
the city may destroy or kill, or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
(KRS 257.100(1))
   (B)   Before destroying the animal, the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian or of two reputable citizens called by him or her
to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
(KRS 257.100(2))
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or his
or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or
his or her agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be
abandoned and may be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal
shelter or disposed of as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100(3))
   (D)   Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
(Prior Code, § 90.07)
DOGS
§ 90.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
(Prior Code, § 90.20)
§ 90.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in
the city without first obtaining a license for each dog.
   (B)   This section and §
90.22 shall not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within
the city for a period less than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 90.21) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 REGISTRATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All dogs kept in the city shall be registered as to sex, breed, name
and address of the owner, and name of the dog. At the time of the registration,
the owner shall obtain a license tag for the dog and shall pay a fee as
established by City Council for each dog.
   (B)   The license tag shall be valid for one year from the date of issue. A
new tag shall be obtained each year by every owner and a new fee paid.
(Prior Code, § 90.22) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 LICENSE TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall be worn
continuously, and the failure to have the tag so attached shall subject the
owner or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 90.23) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground or on any other public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 90.24) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of a character, intensity and duration as to disturb the
peace, quiet and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or more
separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain,
be lodged or fed within any dwelling, yard or enclosure which he or she
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
(Prior Code, § 90.25) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound the dog or have the
dog impounded in the appropriate place.
(Prior Code, § 90.26)
§ 90.27 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
(Prior Code, § 90.27)
VICIOUS DOGS
§ 90.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department possessing
or harboring or having the care or custody of a dog.
   UNCONFINED. A vicious dog is UNCONFINED if the dog is not securely confined
indoors or confined in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure upon the
premises of the owner of the dog. The pen or structure must have secure sides
and a secure top attached to the sides. If the pen or structure has no bottom
secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded into the ground no less than
one foot. All pens or structures must be adequately lighted and kept in a clean
and sanitary condition.
   VICIOUS DOG. Shall be the same definition contained in KRS 258.95(7),
including any subsequent amendments or alterations thereto.
(Prior Code, § 90.40) (Ord. 00-06, passed 7-10-2000; Ord. 24-16, passed 2-12-
2024)
§ 90.41 REGISTRATION.
   Upon enactment of this subchapter, and not less than 30 days thereafter,
each and every owner of a vicious dog as defined herein and which is kept or
confined within the city limit shall register the existence of the dog with the
City Clerk/Treasurer. The registration shall include but not be limited to the
taking of the information as to the dogs location, age, sex and method of
confinement. The registration shall require any and all other information as
may be directed by the Mayor. The registration shall be in the form of a
certification as to the truth and accuracy of the information so required.
(Prior Code, § 90.41) (Ord. 00-06, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 90.42 CONFINEMENT.
   The owner of a vicious dog shall not suffer or permit the dog to go
unconfined.
(Prior Code, § 90.42) (Ord. 00-06, passed 7-10-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.43 LEASH AND MUZZLE.
   (A)   The owner of a vicious dog shall not suffer or permit the dog to go
beyond the premises of the owner unless the dog is securely muzzled and
restrained by a chain or leash, and under the physical restraint of a person.
   (B)   The muzzle shall be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the
dog or interfere with its vision or respiration, but shall prevent it from
biting any human or animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.43) (Ord. 00-06, passed 7-10-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.44 SIGNS.
   The owner of a vicious dog shall display in a prominent place on his or her
premises a clearly visible warning sign indicating that there is a vicious dog
on the premises. A similar sign is required to be posted on the pen or kennel
of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.44) (Ord. 00-06, passed 7-10-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.45 DOG FIGHTING.
   No person, firm, corporation, organization or department shall possess or
harbor or maintain care or custody of any dog for the purpose of dog fighting,
or train, torment, badger, bait or use any dog for the purpose of causing or
encouraging the dog to attack human beings or domestic animals.
(Prior Code, § 90.45) (Ord. 00-06, passed 7-10-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS
§ 90.60 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or possess within the city limits, excepting any
part of the city having been designated as an agricultural zone, any non-
domestic type animal, including, but not limited to, chickens, ducks or other
fowl, pigs, goats, sheep, horses, cows, nor any other animal (whether tame or
otherwise), other than domestic dogs, cats, small birds, hampsters, guinea pigs
or other small animals of the kind generally and reasonably considered as pets
and which may be purchased at a legitimate pet store business, except, however,
rabbits may be kept as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Snakes and other small reptiles may be kept only upon the owners real
property, home, residence, apartment and the like. No snakes or other reptiles
may be possessed, exhibited, paraded or otherwise be found or kept in any
public place. Except, however, nothing herein shall be construed to mean any
legitimate pet business may not sell and display such on their premises or that
the animals may not be transported, as is reasonable and necessary for
veterinary services or for any organized educational display or exhibit where
the permission of that is granted by the school, civic group and the like.
   (C)   In addition to any other animals allowed to be kept within the city
limits herein, farm animals or livestock may be kept within any portion of the
city designated as an agricultural zone.
   (D)   No animal of any kind which may be considered non-domesticated, wild
or otherwise inherently dangerous may be kept within any part of the city
limits.
(Prior Code, § 90.60) (Ord. 00-02, passed 8-28-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.61 EXEMPTIONS.
   Domesticated animals specifically exempt from this subchapter shall be kept
pursuant to any and all other provisions of law, including city ordinances,
county ordinances, state statutes and the like.
(Prior Code, § 90.61) (Ord. 00-02, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 90.62 RABBITS.
   A maximum number of ten rabbits may be kept, in rabbit hutches, cages or
compounds, and out of the public view, and for so long as the animals are not
kept for breeding purposes. Rabbits may not be permitted to roam freely.
(Prior Code, § 90.62) (Ord. 00-02, passed 8-28-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.63 PROPER CARE.
   Any animals kept within the city limits shall be provided proper food and
shelter, and the cage, dog house, hutch or other enclosure and the like shall
be kept clean and free of any unpleasant or noxious odor, including rabbit
manure, at all times. No odors shall be permitted to escape across any boundary
line or unit or to disturb any person.
(Prior Code, § 90.63) (Ord. 00-02, passed 8-28-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.64 CHICKEN AND OTHER FOWL.
   (A)   Nobody shall, by either act or omission, cause, permit, promote,
suffer, allow, aid, encourage or engage in any of the following described
occurrences, which are hereby defined, declared and determined to be public
nuisances and prohibited: the location of any chicken or other fowl on any lot
or parcel of real estate in the city unless:
      (1)   There has been registered with the city:
         (a)   The addresses of that lot or parcel of real estate and the
owners thereof;
         (b)   The number and nature of the chicken and other fowl to be
located on that lot or parcel of real estate; and
         (c)   A diagram of that lot or parcel of real estate with an
identification on that diagram of all of the structures located on that lot or
parcel of real estate, including those designed and constructed for the use of
the chicken and other fowl, with their distances from each other and the
boundary lines of that lot or parcel of real estate.
      (2)   There are never anymore than a total of six chickens or other fowl
on any lot or parcel of real estate under one acre in size; and no more than 12
chickens or fowl on any lot or parcel of real estate over one acre in size;
      (3)   The chicken and other fowl on that lot or parcel of real estate are
always the female of the species and never the male of the species;
      (4)   Neither the chicken or other fowl nor any product thereof are ever
used for any commercial purposes; and
      (5)   Unless the chicken and other fowl are supervised and within the
custody and control of an adult, the chicken and other fowl are always kept
within a coop that is a covered and secure enclosure that is designed,
constructed and always maintained in such a way that each and every part of it
is always:
         (a)   In conformity with the zoning ordinances of the city;
         (b)   In a clean, functional and sanitary condition, free from
preventable offensive odors;
         (c)   At least two feet above the ground or at ground level with a
roosting area, every part of which is at least two feet above the ground in
which the chicken and other fowl may be secured from sunup to sundown;
         (d)   Large enough to allow free movement of each of the chickens and
other fowl located therein, but no less than three square feet of area for each
of them;
         (e)   Located only within the rear yard and at least ten feet from the
nearest boundary line of the lot or parcel of real estate upon which it is
located and at least ten feet from the nearest residential structure on that
lot or parcel or on any other lot or parcel of real estate abutting thereon;
         (f)   Located outside of any area on the lot or parcel of real estate
upon which it is constructed from which surface water drains directly onto any
other lot or parcel of real estate abutting thereon; and
         (g)   In a condition that protects and secures the chicken and other
fowl within it from predators and prevents any of them from leaving that
enclosure.
   (B)   The location of any unused coops for the purpose of chicken or other
fowl on any lot or parcel of real estate in the city for a period of 90
consecutive days is prohibited and must be removed immediately.
(Prior Code, § 90.64) (Ord. 20-03, passed 11-9-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$500, imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor for the first offense if the dog
or cat suffers physical injury as a result of the torture.
(KRS 525.135)
   (D)   Any person who violates §
90.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
90.40 through 90.46 shall be guilty of a gross misdemeanor and may be punished
by a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $500, or imprisonment of not
more than one year in the county jail, or by both fine and imprisonment, for
each offense. Each day the provision of §§
90.40 through 90.46 may be violated shall be considered as a separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to the penalty above, the city shall be entitled to
bring an action, at law or at equity, against the owner of any vicious dog and/
or the dog itself, seeking compliance with §§
90.40 through 90.46.
      (3)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
90.40 through 90.46 may additionally be subject to a civil penalty or fine of
not less than $100 and not more than $500 per day for each day §§
90.40 through 90.46 or any part thereof shall be violated.
      (4)   The city shall not be required to choose among its remedies
hereunder.
   (F)   Penalties are provided with regard to §§
90.60 through
90.63 as follows. Any owner or occupant of premises where any violation hereof
is found, maintained or kept is subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more
than $500 for each offense. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense for which the maximum fine may be imposed.
(Prior Code, § 90.99) (Ord. 00-06, passed 7-10-2000; Ord. 00-02, passed 8-28-
2000)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.20   Public hearing required
   
91.21   Notice requirements
   
91.22   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.23   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.24   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.25   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.40   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.41   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.42   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.43   Removal of ice and snow
   
91.44   Speed bumps
Sidewalks
   
91.55   Construction
   
91.56   Maintenance and repair
   
91.57   Notice to repair and compliance
   
91.58   Lien
   
91.59   Appeals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the City Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or, where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except that part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the City Clerk/Treasurer or other
proper administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from
the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 91.03)
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the City Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall furnish good and sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the
work. The Mayor, if authorized by City Council, may make separate contracts for
the different kinds of work with different parties.
(Prior Code, § 91.06)
Statutory references:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.20 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
monies for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.21 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 91.22 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.23 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.24 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate hearing for
each project. A single hearing encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
if all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the meeting,
shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(5))
§ 91.25 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair
or replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters, nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(6))
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to projects which
are under construction as of the effective date of this subchapter unless
construction is suspended after that date and the city desires to reactivate
the project.
(KRS 174.100(7))
(Prior Code, § 91.25)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.40 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
(Prior Code, § 91.40) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.41) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 91.42) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see §
92.20
§ 91.43 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
(Prior Code, § 91.43) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.44 SPEED BUMPS.
   (A)   No traffic-control devices, of any kind or nature and which are
commonly known as speed bumps and which are designed and intended for the
slowing of vehicular traffic, shall hereafter be placed upon any city street.
   (B)   This prohibition shall not apply to alley ways.
(Prior Code, § 91.44) (Ord. 1996-05, passed 8-12-1996) Penalty, see §
91.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 91.55 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation that desires or is ordered to
construct a sidewalk or entrance pavement in, upon or adjacent to any public
way in the city shall obtain a construction permit from the Building Inspector.
There shall be no charge for a permit.
   (B)   Al1 sidewalks or entrance pavements as described above shall be
constructed according to the City of Irvine Public Sidewalk Specifications and
Construction.
   (C)   Sidewalks in the city limits shall be required according to the
following conditions, and shall be the responsibility of the developer.
      (1)   Residential. Where a residential block exceeds 900 feet in length,
a through sidewalk, in a ten-foot easement may be required by the City Council.
      (2)   Commercial subdivision. Sidewalks shall be required for all
commercia1 lots.
      (3)   Industrial subdivision. Sidewalks may be required for industrial
lots as determined by the City Council.
      (4)   Sidewalk requirements.
         (a)   Service walks. Parallel to street for general public use.
            1.   Minimum width. If replacing existing walk, same width, but not
less than 48 inches. If new walk, 48 inches. Either case never narrower than
walks it leads to on other property.
            2.   Thickness. Minimum four inches concrete over base aggregate.
            3.   Slope. Three-fourths inch pitch side to side, draining away
from buildings towards parking strip or street. Always adjust slope of new walk
gently to meet slope of any abutting existing walk.
            4.   Final surface. Final surface of walk shall be level with
material on each side. Voids created by removal of form boards shall be filled.
            5.   Recommended materials. Use of darby or wood float to achieve
non-slip surface is recommended over broom finish.
         (b)   Curbs. Also see division (C)(4)(e) below, regarding ramps.
            1.   Full four-inch minimum height in no case lower than parking
strip or if parallel to and touching sidewalk, same elevation. If new curb is
elevated above parking strip, fill area and reseed. Curb shall be poured eight
inches deep.
            2.   Curbs shall have relief joints every six feet.
            3.   Edges shall be rounded minimum one-half inch radius. Use of
edging tool required.
            4.   a.   Driveways width at curb shall be four feet wider than
drive area. Control joints shall be cut where slope changes to sidewalk level
or drive area.
               b.   Concrete below full area of driveway apron must be constant
four inches thick.
         (c)   Materials.
            1.   350C psi concrete minimum. Air entrained preferred.
            2.   Expansion joint filler to be used against buildings, retaining
walls, steps and other walks already in place.
         (d)   Edges; control joints.
            1.   Edges. All edges rounded minimum one-half inch radius. Use of
edging tool required.
            2.   Control joints. Minimum four feet apart with a jointing tool
or cut with masonry blade 24 hours after pour.
         (e)   Handicap ramps.
            1.   Minimum width. Thirty-six inches street to walk.
            2.   Maximum slope. One in 12.
            3.   Ramp surface. Ramp surface must be non-slip.
            4.   Diagram.
               a.   Diagram shown below is typical but not only one allowed.
Flared sides may be splayed at curb.
               b.   Flared sides are to prevent pedestrians from tripping.
                  c.   Concrete below edge of ramp and for full area of ramp
must be four inches thick.
         (f)   Handicapped parking. Contact City Hall for handicapped parking
approval areas. These curb areas should be painted bright blue and marked with
handicapped parking signs.
(Prior Code, § 90.55) (Ord. 93- , passed - -1993)
§ 91.56 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawfu1 for any person, firm or corporation to dig, break
or damage in any manner, sidewalk, curb or entrance pavement as described in §
91.55 except when making improvements to the sidewalk or adjoining property.
Anyone causing damage or improvements shall be required to restore the sidewalk
and/or entrance pavement within 48 hours of the property damage or completion
of the property improvement.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every person owning real estate abutting and/
or fronting on any sidewalk in the city to maintain the sidewalk, at his or her
own expense and in a suitable state of repair as far as it fronts or abuts upon
his or her property or real estate. Every property owner shall repair or
replace all holes or uneven surfaces or other defects in the sidewalk according
to the specification described in §
91.55(B).
(Prior Code, § 90.56) (Ord. 93- , passed - -1993) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.57 NOTICE TO REPAIR AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector or Street Superintendent ascertains
the existence of holes or other defects in the sidewalks of the city, it shall
be his or her duty to notify, in writing, the owner of the property abutting
upon the defective sidewalk, to repair, reconstruct or replace at his or her
own expense, within a period of 30 days after delivery of the notice. The
notice required hereunder shall be sufficient if given according to any of the
following methods:
      (1)   To the owner personally;
      (2)   To the owner by mail addressed to him or her at his or her last
known place of residence;
      (3)   If the residence of the owner is unknown, the notice may be mailed
or delivered personally to any resident agent of the owner or to any tenant or
occupant of the premises of the owner; or
      (4)   If there is no known agent, tenant or occupant of the premises, the
notice may be posted on the premises.
   (B)   It is the duty of each owner of the property in the city, within 30
days after receipt of the notice provided for in division (A) above to repair,
reconstruct or replace, at his or her own expense, the sidewalk on which his or
her property abuts, as specified in the notice an as per the specifications
described in §
91.55(B). If the owner is a nonresident of the city, or cannot be found, it
shall be the duty of his or her agent in charge of the property upon receipt of
the notice, to make the repairs, reconstruction or replacement as herein
required. If there is no agent, it shall be the duty of the tenant or occupant
of the property upon receipt of the notice to make repairs, reconstruction or
replacement as herein required.
   (C)   The owner or representative shall contact the Building Inspector or
Street Superintendent for inspections both during and after construction to
assure specification compliance.
(Prior Code, § 90.57) (Ord. 93- , passed - -1993)
§ 91.58 LIEN.
   In the event the owner fails to make the repairs, the Building Inspector is
authorized to have the necessary repairs made and to assess the costs of the
repairs to the abutting owner and notify him or her of the assessment in
writing. In the event the owner fails to remit the cost as assessed within 30
days of the notice as given above, the Building Inspector shall take the
necessary steps to place a lien against the abutting property owner in the
office of the County Clerk in the amount of the unpaid assessment.
(Prior Code, § 90.58) (Ord. 93- , passed - -1993)
§ 91.59 APPEALS.
   Any aggrieved property owner, within ten days of the delivery or posting of
a notice to repair, may appeal to the Board of Adjustments, by delivering
written notice of the appeal to City Clerk/Treasurer, City Hall, 101 Chestnut
St., Irvine, KY 40336, specifying the objections to any noted deficiency. A
hearing date shall be scheduled within three days of receipt of the appeal,
excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays. A hearing will then be held within 30
days.
(Prior Code, § 90.59) (Ord. 93- , passed - -1993)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
91.55 through
91.58 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each offense.
Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.99) (Ord. 93- , passed - -1993)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Weeds
   
92.02   Nuisance conditions on private property
   
92.03   Cellars
   
92.04   Accumulation of water forming ice
   
92.05   Failure to maintain privately owned roadways or alleyways
   
92.06   Posting of signs
Littering
   
92.20   Litter regulations
Noise
   
92.35   Noise disturbances; generally
   
92.36   Noise disturbances; specific acts
   
92.37   Right of entry of law enforcement officer to investigate noise
disturbance
   
92.38   Order of abatement of noise disturbance
   
92.39   Citation for violation of order of abatement of noise disturbance
   
92.40   Mayor authorized to grant special variances relative to noise
disturbances
Administration and Enforcement
   
92.55   Abatement of nuisance
   
92.56   Authority of Mayor
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 WEEDS.
   (A)   Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, poison
ivy, poison oak or other weeds of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract
of land within the city are hereby declared to be a nuisance; and it shall be
unlawful to permit any weeds to grow or remain in any place.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building or lot
to permit any weeds, grass or plants, other than crops, trees, bushes, flowers
or other ornamental plants, to grow to a height exceeding 12 inches anywhere on
the lot, including those portions thereof abutting any street, road, alley or
other thoroughfare, and in the event the lot is crossed by a sidewalk, ditch,
pathway, private roadway, fence or other natural or human-made boundary or
divider, including those portions thereof between the boundary or divider and
the edge of the thoroughfare; any weeds, grass or plants exceeding such height
are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building or lot
to permit any tree, brush or other vegetation to grow in a manner which
interferes with normal sidewalk traffic or to grow so as to pose a threat to
safety on public rights-of-way due to obstruction of view, obstruction of
passage or in any other manner.
   (D)   There is hereby exempted from the scope of the provisions of divisions
(A) and (B) above property with in the city zones for agricultural uses, except
that the exemption shall not apply when the property has been planned for
development and a subdivision plat has been filed of record in the office of
the City Clerk/Treasurer reflecting the property as residential, if applicable.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 94-4, passed 10-10-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 NUISANCE CONDITIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Duty of maintenance of private property. No person owning, leasing,
occupying or having charge of any premises shall maintain or keep any nuisance
thereon, or shall any person keep or maintain the premises in a manner causing
substantial diminution in the value of the other property in the neighborhood
in which those persons are located.
   (B)   Exterior storage of nonoperating or non-licensed vehicles prohibited.
No person in charge of or in control of premises, whether as owner, lessee,
tenant, occupant or otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, wrecked,
junked, discarded or otherwise nonoperating motor vehicle or any motor vehicle
which is not properly licensed pursuant to KRS 186.020 to remain on the
property longer than ten days; and no person shall leave any vehicle on any
property within the city for a longer time than ten days; except that this
section shall not apply to historic motor vehicles registered and licensed in
conformance with KRS 186.043, property where the use is allowed under zoning
ordinances or other applicable laws, or to any vehicle in an enclosed building
or so located upon the premises as not to be readily visible from any public
place or from any surrounding private property. This section shall further not
apply with regard to any vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise
operated in a lawful place, other than in a residential district, and operated
in a lawful manner, when the keeping or maintenance of the vehicle is necessary
to the operation of the business enterprise; or with regard to a vehicle in an
appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner
by the city government or any other public agency or entity.
   (C)   Exterior use or storage of indoor furniture prohibited. No person
owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall allow the use
or storage of furniture which is upholstered or not designed for outdoor use in
an uncovered or exposed area where it is likely to decay, decompose or retain
moisture causing a health hazard or diminution in the value of neighboring
properties.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. passed 10-10-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CELLARS.
   (A)   All cellars shall be kept dry and well aired, free from standing
water, putrefying and noxious vapors and smells, and at all times well
sprinkled with lime or some other disinfectant when necessary.
   (B)   Any cellar not maintained as provided in division (A) above is hereby
declared a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. 94-4, passed 10-10-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ACCUMULATION OF WATER FORMING ICE.
   (A)   Water which is directed, or collected and discharged, by any person on
or across any public street or sidewalk, and which forms the accumulation of
ice on the street or sidewalk, so as to endanger the public health and safety
by preventing safe or reasonable flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, is
hereby declared a nuisance.
   (B)   Any person who causes or maintains a nuisance in violation of section
is subject to the abatement procedure.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) (Ord. 94-4, passed 10-10-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN PRIVATELY OWNED ROADWAYS OR ALLEYWAYS.
   (A)   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any private
roadway, alleyway or other area used for vehicular travel by members of the
general public shall fail to maintain the roadway, alleyway or other area in a
manner sufficient to assure public safety by allowing deterioration of the
roadway, alleyway or other area through potholes, uneven surface, breakup of
surface or in any other manner which causes or may tend to cause damage to
vehicles or injury to persons who travel on the roadway, alleyway or other
area.
   (B)   Property which is not maintained in a manner sufficient to comply with
division (A) above is hereby declared a nuisance.
   (C)   Any person who causes or maintains a nuisance in violation of
divisions (A) and (B) of this section is subject to the abatement procedure.
(Prior Code, § 92.05) (Ord. 94-4, passed 10-10-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, tack, nail or otherwise attach
any sale bill, sign, card notice or advertisement or other things to any
building, telegraph or telephone pole, electric light or gas pole, tree or
fence, within the limits of the city without the consent of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 92.06) (Ord. 10-79, passed 10-22-1979) Penalty, see §
92.99
LITTERING
§ 92.20 LITTER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Depositing of litter prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, in person or by his or her
agent, employee or servant, to cast, throw, sweep, sift or deposit in any
manner in or upon any public way or other public place in the city, or any
river, canal, public water, drain, sewer or receiving basin within the
jurisdiction of the city government, any ashes, debris, garbage, refuse or
waste of any kind, whether liquid or solid. Nor shall any person cast, throw,
sweep, sift or deposit any of the aforementioned items anywhere within the
jurisdiction of the city government in a manner that it may be carried or
deposited in whole or in part, by the action of the sun, wind, rain or snow,
into any of the aforementioned places.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to the deposit of material under a
permit authorized by any ordinance of the city government; or to goods, wares
or merchandise deposited upon any public way or other public place temporarily,
in the necessary course of trade, and removed therefrom within two hours after
being so deposited; or to articles for things deposited in or conducted unto
the city government sewer system through lawful drains in accordance with the
ordinances of the city government relating thereto.
   (B)   Vehicles to be covered. It shall be unlawful for any person, in person
or by his or her agent, employee or servant, to use any vehicle to haul any
ashes, debris, garbage, refuse or waste of any kind, whether liquid or solid,
unless the vehicle is covered to prevent any part of its contents from spilling
or dropping at all times while the vehicle is in motion on any street or alley
in the city. However, the requirements herein for covering the vehicles shall
not apply to vehicles carrying brush cuttings, tree trimmings, branches, logs
and similar waste material if the matter is securely lashed to the vehicle to
prevent spilling or dropping as aforesaid.
(Prior Code, § 92.20) (Ord. 94-4, passed 10-10-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
NOISE
§ 92.35 NOISE DISTURBANCES; GENERALLY.
   In addition to the specific prohibitions, no person shall make, continue or
cause to be made, continued or permitted any noise disturbances on or across a
public right-of-way or a public place. This section shall not apply to
noncommercial public speaking and public assembly activities conducted on any
public space or public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 92.35) (Ord. 94-4, passed 10-10-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.36 NOISE DISTURBANCES; SPECIFIC ACTS.
   The following acts, and the causing or permitting thereof, are declared to
be in violation of noise disturbances:
   (A)   Maintaining any refrigeration machinery or air conditioning,
consisting of air compressors or rotating or reciprocating machinery, in a
manner as to create a noise disturbance across a dwelling unit boundary;
   (B)   Operating or permitting the operation of any tools or equipment used
in construction, drilling or demolition work between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. prevailing local time, so that the sound therefrom creates a
noise disturbance across a dwelling unit boundary, except for emergency work of
public service utilities or by special variance as provided;
   (C)   Operating or permitting the operation of any mechanically powered saw,
drill, sander, grinder, lawn or garden tool, lawnmower or other similar device
used outdoors that creates a noise disturbance across a dwelling unit boundary
other than powered snow removal equipment, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m., prevailing local time, or on Saturday or Sunday before the hour of
9:00 a.m., prevailing local time;
   (D)   Loading, unloading, opening, closing or other handling of boxes,
crates, containers, building materials, garbage cans or similar objects between
the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., prevailing local time, in a manner as to
cause a noise disturbance across a dwelling unit boundary;
   (E)   Collecting refuse or operating refuse collection vehicles between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:30 a.m., prevailing local time, in a manner as to
create a noise disturbance across a dwelling unit boundary;
   (F)   (1)   Using, operating or permitting the operation of any loudspeaker,
public address system, mobile sound vehicle or similar device amplifying sound
therefrom on a public right-of-way or public space for any commercial purpose;
or
      (2)   Using, operating or permitting for any noncommercial purpose any
loudspeaker, public address system, mobile sound vehicle or similar device
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., prevailing local time, so that
the sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a dwelling unit
boundary.
   (G)   Operating or permitting the operation of powered model vehicles so as
to create a noise disturbance across a dwelling unit boundary or in a public
place between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., prevailing local time;
   (H)   Operating, playing or permitting the operation or playing of any
radio, television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument or similar device:
      (1)   In a manner as to create a noise disturbance across a dwelling unit
boundary; or
      (2)   In a manner as to create a continuing noise disturbance at 50 feet
from the device, when operated in or on a motor vehicle on a public right-of-
way or public space.
   (I)   Repairing, rebuilding, modifying, testing or operating any motor
vehicle, motorcycle, motor bicycle or motorboat in a manner as to cause a noise
disturbance across a dwelling unit boundary; or
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the city
any dog that barks or yelps or otherwise creates a noise disturbance across a
dwelling unit boundary.
(Prior Code, § 92.36) (Ord. 94-4, passed 10-10-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.37 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER TO INVESTIGATE NOISE
DISTURBANCE.
   Any city government law enforcement officer, in addition to any authority
vested in him or her, has the power, upon presentation of proper credentials,
to enter and inspect any dwelling, multi-family dwelling, building, structure
or premises within the city as may be necessary to enforce the provisions of
this subchapter. Needed permission is to be obtained from the occupant or, in
the case of unoccupied property, from the owner or his or her agent. If
permission is refused or is otherwise unobtainable, a search warrant must be
obtained upon the showing of probable cause to believe that a violation may
exist, before entry or inspection is made.
(Prior Code, § 92.37) (Ord. 94-4, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 92.38 ORDER OF ABATEMENT OF NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   In lieu of issuing a citation as provided, any city government law
enforcement officer may issue an order, either orally or in writing, requiring
the immediate abatement of any source of sound alleged to be in violation.
(Prior Code, § 92.38) (Ord. 94-4, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 92.39 CITATION FOR VIOLATION OF ORDER OF ABATEMENT OF NOISE
DISTURBANCE.
   Except where a person is acting in good faith to comply with an abatement
order issued, violation of any provision shall be cause for a citation to be
issued by a city government law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 92.39) (Ord. 94-4, passed 10-10-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.40 MAYOR AUTHORIZED TO GRANT SPECIAL VARIANCES RELATIVE TO NOISE
DISTURBANCES.
   (A)   The Mayor or his or her designated representative shall have the
authority, consistent with this section, to grant special variances to those
persons who can demonstrate that bringing a source of sound or activity into
compliance would constitute an unwarranted health hazard or an unreasonable
economic hardship upon the applicant.
   (B)   Any person seeking a special variance pursuant to this section shall
file a written application with the Mayor or his or her designated
representative. The application will be provided by the Mayor or his or her
designated representative. The application shall contain reasons why an
unwarranted health hazard or an unreasonable economic hardship would result if
the applicant was required to comply. The Mayor or his or her designated
representative additionally may require that the applicant give notice of the
application for special variance to persons who frequent the area of the sound
or activity and may be adversely affected by the granting of the variance. Any
individual who claims to be adversely affected by allowance of the special
variance may file a statement with the Mayor or his or her designated
representative containing any information to support his or her claim.
   (C)   In determining whether to grant or deny the application, the Mayor or
his or her designated representative shall balance the hardship to the
applicant, the community and other persons of not granting the special variance
against the adverse impact on the health, safety and welfare of persons
affected, the adverse impact on property affected any other adverse impact of
granting the special variance. Applicants for special variances and persons
contesting special variances may be required to submit any information the
Mayor or his or her representative may reasonably require. In granting or
denying an application, the Mayor or his or her representative shall place on
public file a copy of the decision and the reasons for denying or granting the
special variance.
   (D)   Special variances shall be granted by notice to the applicant
containing all necessary conditions including a time limit on the permitted
activity. The special variance shall not become effective until all conditions
are agreed to by the applicant. Noncompliance with any conditions of the
special variances shall terminate it and subject the person holding it to those
provisions of this subchapter regulating the source of sound or activity for
which the special variance was granted.
   (E)   Application for extension of time limits specified in special
variances or for modification of other substantial conditions shall be treated
like applications for initial special variances.
   (F)   The Mayor or his or her designated representative may issue guidelines
defining the procedures to be followed in applying for a special variance and
the criteria to be considered in deciding whether to grant a special variance.
(Prior Code, § 92.40) (Ord. 94-4, passed 10-10-1994)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 92.55 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Notice to abate. It shall be the duty of the Mayor and/or by the
Mayor, citation officers or others authorized to serve or cause to be served a
notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which there is kept or
maintained a nuisance in violation of the provisions of this chapter. The
notice shall describe the nuisance so maintained and shall demand abatement of
the nuisance within five days of notice, unless the nuisance constitutes and
immediate danger to health and well-being of the community, in which case the
notice shall demand abatement within 24 hours of the notice. The notice shall
also include the following:
      (1)   A statement to the effect that if the situation is not remedied
within the prescribed time, the city government will proceed to abate the
nuisance;
      (2)   A statement to the effect that the cost of abatement constitutes a
lien against the property in favor of the city government; and
      (3)   A statement to the effect that if the city government has abated
the nuisance, the Mayor or City Clerk/Treasurer will send a bill for the cost
of the abatement, to include an administrative cost, to the property owner and
occupant, and if the bill is not paid within 14 days following the mailing of
the bill, that a notice of lien claimed for the cost of the abatement will be
placed against the property. The property owner and occupant shall further be
informed that in the event the property is the subject of litigation, the lien
may be filed immediately upon the mailing of the bill.
   (B)   Service of notice. Notice shall be personally served upon owners or
occupants or shall be mailed to the last-known address of the owner of the
property as it appears on the current tax assessment roll. If the owner of the
property cannot be ascertained from the tax rolls in the exercise of reasonable
diligence, the Mayor or his or her designee officer shall make an affidavit to
that effect; and the serving of notice upon the owners may be made by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation for two consecutive
publication days. A copy of the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place
on the premises affected by the notice.
   (C)   Abatement by city government. If the owner or occupant so served does
not abate the nuisance within five days, the city government may proceed to
abate the nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of the abatement; and the
expense, including an administrative cost fee, shall be charged to and paid by
the owner or occupant. The five-day period provided for in this division (C)
shall be deemed to commence as follows:
      (1)   Where notice is personally served, on the day following service;
      (2)   Where notice is by mail, on the third day following mailing; and
      (3)   Where notice is by publication and posting, on the third day
following the initial publication and/or posting.
   (D)   Lien. The city government shall have a lien against the property for
its costs incurred in a nuisance abatement. This lien shall be evidenced by a
notice of lien claimed, filed in the County Clerk’s office, which notice shall
include the affidavit of the Mayor, City Clerk/Treasurer or the citation
officer, setting forth the property in question, the amount of the city
government’s costs of abatement, the date of abatement, and that the notice
provisions of this section were complied with before abatement. The City Clerk/
Treasurer shall bill the property owner and occupant of the premises at least
once following abatement, and no notice of lien claimed shall be filed against
the property until 14 days have elapsed since the bill is sent. If the property
is the subject of litigation, the lien may be filed immediately upon the
mailing of the bill. A copy of the notice of lien claimed shall be mailed to
the owner of the premises, or published in a newspaper of general circulation,
as required by statute, where the owner of the property cannot be ascertained.
However, the failure of the Clerk/Treasurer to record the notice of lien
claimed or the failure to mail the owner a copy of the notice or publish same,
or the failure of the owner to receive the notice shall not affect the right to
foreclose the lien for the charges as provided in division (E) below.
   (E)   Property to be sold. Property subject to a lien for unpaid nuisance
abatement charges shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of
the sale shall be applied to pay the charges after deducting costs as is the
case in the foreclosure of statutory liens. Foreclosure shall be an equity in
the name of the city government.
   (F)   Court proceedings. The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to
institute proceedings, in the name of the city government, in any court having
jurisdiction over the matter, against any property for which a bill for
nuisance abatement remains unpaid for 14 days after it is mailed. If the
property is the subject of litigation, the proceedings may be initiated
immediately upon the mailing of the bill.
   (G)   Release of lien. The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to
execute a release of the lien provided for in division (D) above upon payment
in full of the nuisance abatement cost evidenced by the lien or upon conclusion
of court proceedings resulting in the sale of the property regardless of
whether any portion of the costs were paid from the proceeds of the sale. The
lien release shall be filed in the County Clerk’s office.
   (H)   Unenforceable liens.
      (1)   The Mayor of law is hereby authorized to make the determination
that liens shall not be filed for the cost of nuisance abatement if the cost of
nuisance abatement is $500 or less and the cost of collection of the lien would
be greater than the lien itself, or when intervening in existing litigation is
not cost effective, or when the lien would not be enforceable as a matter of
law.
      (2)   All liens now of record meeting these criteria may be released upon
signature of the Mayor and all prior releases of liens are hereby ratified and
adopted as an act of this Council.
(Prior Code, § 92.55) (Ord. 94-4, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 92.56 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to exercise powers as may be necessary or
convenient to carry out and effectuate the provisions of nuisance abatement,
including the following powers in addition to any others herein granted:
   (A)   To enter upon all properties within the city for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To appoint and fix the duties of the officers, agents and employees as
he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter;
   (C)   To delegate any of his or her functions or powers under this chapter
to the officers, agents and employees as he or she may designate; and
   (D)   To promulgate regulations which may be necessary to carry out and
effectuate the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.56) (Ord. 94-4, passed 10-10-1994)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner or occupant of premises where any nuisance is caused,
maintained or kept in violation of any of these provisions, who fails to remove
or abate the same after notice as provided, is subject to a fine of not less
than $25 nor more than $500 for each day the nuisance remains after notice.
Each day the nuisance remains after notice shall constitute a separate offense
for which the maximum fine may be imposed. The penalty as herein provided is in
addition to the civil abatement procedures as set out herein.
   (B)   Every person failing to perform the duties required of him or her by
or to comply with the provisions of §
92.20 shall for every offense be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500,
and each day’s continuance of any violation shall be a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provisions of §§
92.35 through
92.40 regarding noise shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor more
than $500.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of §
92.06 concerning the posting of hand bills, advertisement or notices shall be
fined $5 for each offense. The fine shall be paid to the Police Department
within seven days after the citation therefor is issued. If same is not paid
within seven days, the citing officer shall make a complaint to the District
Court, and the violation shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 92.99) (Ord. 10-79, passed 10-22-1979; Ord. passed 10-10-1994)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fire Limits; Fire Warnings
   
93.01   Fire limits
   
93.02   Fire alarms; fire warning
Fireworks
   
93.15   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.16   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.17   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.18   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.19   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.20   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.35   Blasting permit
   
93.36   Storage of flammables and other matter
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention Code adopted by reference, see §
150.04
FIRE LIMITS; FIRE WARNINGS
§ 93.01 FIRE LIMITS.
   The boundaries subject to fire limits are hereby prescribed, as follows:
“Beginning on the west side of Main Street at the Kentucky River Bridge; thence
north with Main Street to the southeast corner of Chestnut Street and Main
Street; thence west with the south side of Chestnut Street to the southeast
corner of Chestnut Street and Collins Street; thence in a southerly direction
parallel with the east side of Collins Street to a point directly parallel with
the Kentucky River Bridge; thence east to the point of beginning at the
Kentucky River Bridge on the west side of Main Street.
Beginning on the east side of Main Street at the Kentucky River Bridge; thence
north with Main Street to the southwest corner of Main Street and River Drive;
thence in a southeastwardly direction and parallel with the south side of River
Drive to the southwest corner of River Drive and Estill Avenue; thence in a
southerly direction with the west side of Estill Avenue to the south line of
the L & N Railroad right-of-way; thence with the right-of-way in a westerly
direction back to the point of beginning.
Beginning at the northeast corner of Main Street and River Drive; thence with
Main Street north to the southeast corner of Main Street and Broadway; thence
east with Broadway to the southeast corner of Main Street and Court Street;
thence south with Court Street to the northwest corner of Court Street and
River Drive; thence west with River Drive to the point of beginning.
Beginning on the northeast corner of Main Street and Broadway; thence north
with Main Street to the northwest corner of the property of the United States
Post Office on Main Street; thence east with the line of the Post Office
property to Court Street; thence south with Court Street to the northwest
corner of Court Street and Main Street; thence west with Main Street to the
point of beginning.
Beginning at the southeast corner of Court Street and Broadway thence in a
southeasterly direction parallel with Broadway to the southwest corner of
Broadway and Estill Avenue; thence south with Estill Avenue to River Drive;
thence in a northeasterly direction parallel with River Drive to the northeast
corner of Court Street and River Drive thence north with Court Street to the
point of beginning.
Beginning at the northeast corner of Court Street and Broadway; thence in an
northerly direction with Court Street to a point directly parallel to the
northeast corner of the property of the United States Post Office; thence in a
southeasterly direction to a point directly parallel to the southwest corner of
Estill Avenue; thence south to a point on Broadway directly parallel with and
across the Street from the Southwest corner of Estill Avenue and Broadway;
thence in a northwesterly direction and directly parallel with Broadway to the
point of beginning at the northeast corner of Broadway and Court Street.”
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. passed 9-27-1965)
§ 93.02 FIRE ALARMS; FIRE WARNING.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to telephone a fire alarm or fire
warning to the City Fire Department without also reporting to this Department
the name and address of the person or persons reporting the fire alarm or fire
warning, and the telephone number from which the fire alarm or fire warning is
called in; and the City Fire Department is hereby authorized and required to
answer only those calls within its jurisdiction as are properly reported in
accordance with the terms of this section.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. passed 4-13-1964) Penalty, see §
93.99
FIREWORKS
§ 93.15 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in this subchapter, FIREWORKS means any composition or device
for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion,
deflagration or detonation, and which meets the definition of CONSUMER
FIREWORKS as defined in division (B) below or DISPLAY FIREWORKS as defined in
division (D) below and as set forth in the United States Department of
Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials regulations. FIREWORKS does not
include:
      (1)   Exception number 1: toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with dot
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times;
      (2)   Exception number 2: model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks; or
      (3)   Exception number 3: propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in this subchapter, CONSUMER FIREWORKS means fireworks that
are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion and that comply with the construction, chemical
composition and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer Product
Safety Commission. The types, sizes and amount of pyrotechnic contents of these
devices are limited as enumerated in this section. Some small devices designed
to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices, ground
devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and aerial
devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition. CONSUMER
FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in
CPSC, 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, are classified as Division 1.4G explosives
by the United States Department of Transportation, and include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations;
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch;
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch;
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch;
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect;
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device;
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function; and
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces white
or colored smoke as the primary effect;
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight;
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability;
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight;
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals;
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, stars, components producing reports containing up
to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term “mine” refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term “shell” refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A
mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The term “cake” refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground; and
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-fourths inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced;
and
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed in this section are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK
NOISEMAKERS and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the United States
Department of Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale,
possession, sale and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Devices containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams
of pyrotechnic composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report;
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report;
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report;
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced;
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced; and
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in this subchapter, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means pyrotechnic
devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes, but is
not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130 milligrams)
of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of
pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as CONSUMER FIREWORKS. DISPLAY FIREWORKS are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, and
are classified as Class B explosives by the United States Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items is as follows.
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) above are not legal for retail sale
but are legal under permits granted pursuant to §
93.16 for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may be
sold at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
(KRS 227.708)
(Prior Code, § 93.15)
§ 93.16 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, copartnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use or explode any
display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department, or Mayor, or similar official
where there is no fire department, may grant permits for supervised public
displays of fireworks by municipalities, fair associations, amusement parks and
other organizations or groups of individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (3)   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives (ATF) license and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (A)(1) above shall be issued only to a
competent display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This competent display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local fire chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days
in advance of the date of the display. After the privilege is granted, sales,
possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be lawful
for that purpose only. No permit granted under this division (A)(5) shall be
transferable. For the purposes of this division (A)(5), PUBLIC DISPLAY OF
FIREWORKS shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials
before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division (A)(7). The regulations shall address the process
by which permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably
necessary to effectuate this division (A)(7).
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit
as outlined in division (A) above. The permit holder shall present the permit
along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale;
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives;
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation and highway use;
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads;
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports;
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations;
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the United States Department of the Interior or any equivalent
or local agency; and
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
nonprofit or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks as
defined in §
93.15(B) and as permitted pursuant to §
93.17.
(KRS 227.710) (Prior Code, § 93.16) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   Except as provided in §
93.16, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.15(B) may be offered for sale, sold at retail or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the following requirements are met.
   (A)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in §
93.15(B) shall register annually with the State Fire Marshal, who may assess a
fee of no more than $25 for each site at which fireworks shall be sold. The
registration requirement under this division (A) shall not apply to permanent
business establishments which are open year round and in which the sale of
fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business. Each location shall
be required to charge sales tax at the current rate imposed on retailers in KRS
139.200.
   (B)   Permanent business establishments open year-round and in which the
sale of consumer fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business shall
only be permitted to sell those consumer fireworks described in §
93.15(B), or shall meet the criteria for “seasonal retailer” described in
division (C) below.
   (C)   SEASONAL RETAILERS shall be defined as any person, firm, co-
partnership, nonprofit or corporation intending to sell “consumer fireworks”
between June 10 and July 7, or December 26 and January 4 of each year or both,
and shall include permanent businesses, temporary businesses, stores, stands or
tents. A seasonal retailer shall register with the State Fire Marshal, who may
assess a fee of no more than $250 for each site at which fireworks shall be
sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate
imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200.
   (D)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit or corporation intending
to sell consumer fireworks, as defined in §
93.15(B), as the primary source of business, that is not a seasonal retailer as
defined in division (C) above, shall register with the State Fire Marshal, who
may assess a fee of no more than $500 for each site at which fireworks will be
sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate
imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200.
   (E)   The annual registration required by this section shall be received by
the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale at
the site for which the registration is intended. Evidence that a sales and use
tax permit has been obtained from the Department of Revenue shall be presented
to the State Fire Marshal as a condition of registration. If the registration
is received less than 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale at the site
for which registration is intended, an additional assessment of $100 shall be
added to the initial fee.
   (F)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall have its
registration certificate displayed in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (G)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) – Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition).
   (H)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.15(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
   (I)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under this section unless the individual is supervised by a parent
or guardian.
   (J)   The State Fire Marshal may revoke the registration of any site which
is in violation of a requirement of this section, or any other requirement
provided pursuant to this chapter. If the violation renders any property
especially susceptible to fire loss, and there is present such hazard to human
life or limb that the public safety imperatively requires emergency action, the
State Fire Marshal may take that action as provided in KRS 227.330(6).
   (K)   A person lawfully possessing consumer fireworks, as defined in §
93.15(B), may use those items if:
      (1)   He or she is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Fireworks are not ignited within 200 feet of any structure, vehicle
or any other person; and
      (3)   Use of the fireworks does not place him or her in violation of any
lawfully enacted local ordinance.
(KRS 227.715) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.18 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.16 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in his or her judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his or her agents,
employees or subcontractors.
(Prior Code, § 93.18) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry; gold
star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate; toy snakes
which contain no mercury; smoke novelties and party novelties, which contain
less than 0.25 grain of explosive mixture; shells or cartridges, used as
ammunition in firearms; blank cartridges for a show or theater or for signal or
ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports or for use by military
organizations; or the sale of any kind of fireworks, provided the same are to
be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730) (Prior Code, § 93.19)
§ 93.20 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or display
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure and of the state fire marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) above shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall restrict a local government from
enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750) (Prior Code, § 93.20)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.35 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting the permit, may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
(Prior Code, § 93.30) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior or any material of
a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for these hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
(Prior Code, § 93.31) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.16 or
93.17, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4))
   (C)   Anyone found guilty of violation of §
93.02 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 93.99) (Ord. passed 4-13-1964)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Policy
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful practice
   
94.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
94.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
94.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
94.07   Exemption
   
94.08   Administration
   
94.09   Enforcement
   
94.10   Investigations; subpoena; giving of evidence
   
94.11   Enforcement by private persons
   
94.12   Interference; coercion or intimidation
   
94.13   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the city.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) (Ord. 1996-10, passed 12-9-1996)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
94.04, 94.05 or 94.06.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. 1996-10, passed 12-9-1996)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below and §
94.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth in this section shall apply to all dwelling except as exempted by
division (B) below.
   (B)   Nothing in §
94.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
the private individual owner does not own more than three single-family houses
at any one time; provided further that in the case of the sale of any single-
family house by a private individual owner not residing in the house at the
time of the sale or who was not the most recent resident of the house prior to
the sale, the exemption granted by this division (B) shall apply only with
respect to one sale within any 24-month period; provided further, that a bona
fide private individual owner does not own any interest in, nor is there owned
or reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement,
title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or
rental of, more than three single-family houses any one time; provided further,
that the sale or rental of any single-family house shall be excepted from the
application of this title only if the house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or
salesperson, or of the facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any broker, agent,
salesperson or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of the living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence in providing
sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 1996-10, passed 12-9-1996)
§ 94.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
94.03 and except as exempted by §§
94.03(B) and 94.07, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable to
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, familial status or handicapped status;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status or handicapped status;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status or handicapped
status, or an intention to make any preference, limitation or discrimination;
or
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status or handicapped status that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when the dwelling is in fact so
available.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) (Ord. 1996-10, passed 12-9-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefore for
the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount
interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of the loan or other
financial assistance, because of the race, color, religion or national origin
of the person or of any person associated with him or her in connection with
the loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of the loan or other
financial assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, leasee, tenants
or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which the loan or
other financial assistance is to be made or given; provided, that nothing
contained in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the
exception contained in §
94.03(B).
(Prior Code, § 94.05) (Ord. 1996-10, passed 12-9-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of access, membership or participation, on account of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, familial status or handicapped status.
(Prior Code, § 94.06) (Ord. 1996-10, passed 12-9-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association
or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised
or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association
or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to those persons, unless membership in
religion is restricted on account of race, color or national origin. Nor shall
anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the
public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
(Prior Code, § 94.07) (Ord. 1996-10, passed 12-9-1996)
§ 94.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A) The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall be
with the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may delegate any of these functions, duties and powers to
employees of the city or to boards of employees, including functions, duties
and powers with respect to investigating, conciliating, hearing, determining,
ordering, certifying, reporting or otherwise acting as to any work, business or
matter under this chapter. The Mayor shall by rule prescribe rights of appeal
from the decisions of his or her hearing examiners to other hearing examiners
or to other officers in the city to boards of officers or to himself or
herself, as shall be appropriate and in accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Mayor to commence educational and conciliatory activities as will further
the purposes of this chapter. He or she shall call conferences of persons in
the housing industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the
provisions of this chapter and his or her suggested means of implementing it,
and shall endeavor with their advice to work out programs of voluntary
compliance and of enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 94.08) (Ord. 1996-10, passed 12-9-1996)
§ 94.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the Mayor. Complaints shall be in writing
and shall contain information and be in a form as the Mayor requires. Upon
receipt of a complaint, the Mayor shall furnish a copy of the same to the
person or persons who allegedly committed or about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, or
within 30 days after the expiration of any period of reference under division
(C) below, the Mayor shall investigate the complaint and give notice in writing
to the person aggrieved whether he or she intends to resolve it. If the Mayor
decides to resolve the complaints, he or she shall proceed to try to eliminate
or correct the alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of
conference, conciliation and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of
informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent
proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the persons
concerned. Any employee of the Mayor who shall make public any information in
violation of this provision shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more
than one year.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him or her and with the leave of the Mayor which shall be granted
whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his or her answer
at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If, within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Mayor, the
Mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this chapter, the
person aggrieved may, within 30 days thereafter, file a complaint with the
Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Mayor will
assist in this filing.
   (D)   If the Mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance within 30
days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days hereafter
commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the respondent named
in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected by this chapter,
insofar as the rights relate to the subject of the complaint. If the court
finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur,
the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in the practice or order
affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Mayor shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary compliance.
(Prior Code, § 94.09) (Ord. 1996-10, passed 12-9-1996)
§ 94.10 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENA; GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the Mayor shall have access at all
reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and other
evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and copy
materials and take and record the testimony or statements of persons as are
reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided,
however, that the Mayor first complies with the provisions of the Fourth
Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The Mayor may issue
subpoenas to compel his or her access to or the production of materials, or the
appearance of persons, any may issue interrogatories to a respondent, to the
same extent and subject to the same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas
or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a civil action in the United
States District Court for the district in which the investigation is taking
place. The Mayor may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Mayor, a respondent shall be entitled
to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in the same of the
Mayor to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as subpoenas
issued by the Mayor himself or herself. Subpoenas issued at the request of a
respondent shall show on their face the name and address of the respondent and
shall state that they were issued at his or her request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Mayor shall be entitled to the
same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings in United States
District Courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a subpoena issued at the
request of a respondent shall be paid by him or her.
   (D)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, the
person may petition the Mayor to revoke or modify the subpoena. The Mayor shall
grant the petition if he or she finds that the subpoena requires appearance or
attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it requires production of
evidence which does not relate to any matter under investigation, that it does
not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be produced, that
compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other good reason.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Mayor or other
person at whose request it was issued may petition for its enforcement in the
state court for the district in which the person to whom the subpoena was
addressed resides, was served or transacts business.
   (F)   The City Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Mayor
participates as a part or as amicus pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.10) (Ord. 1996-10, passed 12-9-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted by §§
94.03, 94.04, 94.05 and 94.06 may be enforced by civil actions in state or
local courts of general jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within
180 days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred: provided,
however, that the court shall continue the civil case brought pursuant to this
section or §
94.09(D) from time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the Mayor are likely to result in satisfactory
settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained or in the
complaint made to the Mayor and which practice forms the basis for the action
in court; and provided, however, that any sale, encumbrance or rental
consummated prior to the issuance of any court order issued under the authority
of this chapter, and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer or tenant
without actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or civil
action under the provisions of this chapter shall not be affected.
   (B)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees in the case
of a prevailing plaintiff; provided, that the plaintiff in the opinion of the
court is not financially able to assume the attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 94.11) (Ord. 1996-10, passed 12-9-1996)
§ 94.12 INTERFERENCE; COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
persons in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
94.03,
94.04,
94.05 or
94.06. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Prior Code, § 94.12) (Ord. 1996-10, passed 12-9-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.13 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, familial status or handicapped status, and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
the person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, familial status or handicapped status in any of
the activities, services, organization or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Prior Code, § 94.13) (Ord. 1996-10, passed 12-9-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Investigations; subpoena; giving of evidence. Any person who willfully
fails or neglects to attend and testify or to answer any lawful inquiry or to
produce records, documents or other evidence as set forth in §
94.10, if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful
order of the Mayor, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more
than one year, or both. Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the
Mayor, shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact in
any report, account, record or other document submitted to the Mayor pursuant
to his or her subpoena or other order, or shall willfully neglect or fail to
make or cause to be made full, true and correct entries in the reports,
accounts, records or other documents, or shall willfully mutilate, alter, or by
any other means falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
   (C)   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases. Any citizen because
he or she is or has been, or in order to discourage the citizen or any other
citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons to participate,
without discrimination on account of race, color, religion or national origin,
in any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in §
94.13(A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assemble opposing any
denial of the opportunity to so participate, shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and it bodily injury
results shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than ten
years, or both; and if death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any
term of years or for life.
(Prior Code, § 94.99) (Ord. 1996-10, passed 12-9-1996)
CHAPTER 95: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
95.01   Applicability
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Prohibited acts
   
95.04   Response authority
   
95.05   Liability for costs
   
95.06   Authorized release
   
95.07   Contractual indemnification and subrogation
   
95.08   Disclaimer of liability
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 APPLICABILITY.
   Pursuant to authority provided by KRS 67.083(7) and 83A.060, the provisions
of this chapter shall apply to all persons manufacturing, using, storing or
transporting hazardous materials within the city; and an unauthorized release
of a hazardous material:
   (A)   In which the safety of local residents and/or irreversible damage to
the environment is imminent without immediate action;
   (B)   The responsible party cannot or has refused to act in a reasonable
time or manner, or the responsible party is not known through existing
reporting or record keeping requirements; and
   (C)   The responsible party would be required by existing local, state and/
or federal regulations to report, contain and remediate the hazardous material.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 11-10, passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 11-2011, passed 11-
14-2011)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED RELEASE. A release of hazardous materials in accordance with an
appropriate permit granted by a local, state or federal agency having primary
jurisdiction over such release.
   CONSUMER PRODUCT. The meaning as recited in 15 U.S.C. § 2052.
   COSTS. All expenses incurred by local government and/or local and/or
regional emergency response organizations, regardless of whether such agencies
are publicly or privately owned, in responding to any hazardous materials
spill, leak or other release into the environment, and for any remedial or
removal actions taken to protect and safeguard the public health and safety,
property or the environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, costs
incurred for personnel, equipment and the use thereof; materials, supplies,
services and damage to or loss of equipment, whether publicly or privately
owned; and related expenses resulting directly from response to a release or
threatened release of a hazardous material.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who works, with or without compensation, in a
workplace.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
government agency or other entity engaged in a business or providing services
and which has employees.
   ENVIRONMENT. The navigable waters of the United States and any other surface
water, ground water, drinking water supply, soil surface, subsurface strata,
storm sewer, or publicly owned sanitary sewer or treatment works (other than
those handling only wastewater generated at a facility) within the city. The
term shall include air only for purposes of reporting releases pursuant to
additional provisions of this chapter.
   FACILITY. Any building, structure, installation, equipment, pipe or pipeline
(including any pipe into a sewer or publicly owed treatment container), tank,
motor vehicle, truck trailer, rolling stock or aircraft, or any site or area
where a hazardous material has been deposited, stored, disposed of, abandoned,
placed or otherwise come to be located. Consumer products in consumer use and
vessels are not included.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any element, compound, substance or material, or any
combination thereof, which is toxic, flammable, explosive, corrosive or
radioactive, or is highly reactive when mixed with other substances, including,
but not limited to, any substance or material designated a hazardous material
pursuant to the Hazardous Materials Transportation Law (49 U.S.C. §§ 5101 et
seq.), or is listed in Appendix A, Table 302.4, 40 C.F.R. part 302, “List of
Hazardous Materials and Reportable Quantities,” as amended, published by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and incorporated herein by
reference the same as if fully set out herein, in a quantity and form which may
pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, property or the
environment when improperly released, treated, stored, transported, disposed of
or otherwise managed; and such element, compound, substance or material may
encompass oxidizers or etiological or carcinogenic agents.
   NORMAL APPLICATION OF PESTICIDES. Application pursuant to the label
directions for application of a pesticide produced and registered under the
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), as amended, or
pursuant to the terms and conditions of an experimental use permit issued under
FIFRA, or pursuant to an exemption granted under FIFRA.
   OIL. Oil of any kind or in any form, including, but not limited to,
petroleum, fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse and oil mixed with wastes other than
dredged spoil.
   PERSON. Any individual; business; firm; partnership; corporation;
consortium; association; trust; joint-stock company; cooperative; joint
venture; city; county; city or county special district; the state or any
department, agency or political subdivision thereof; the United States
government; or any other commercial or legal entity.
   RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, escaping,
emptying, discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping or disposing of a hazardous
material into or upon any land, air, water, well, stream, sewer or pipe so that
such hazardous materials, or any constituent thereof, may enter the
environment. The term shall not apply to:
      (1)   A claim which may be asserted against the employer of such
claimants, as provided by CERCLA regulations for any release resulting in
exposure to the claimants solely within a workplace;
      (2)   Emissions from the engine exhaust of a motor vehicle, rolling
stock, aircraft, vessel or a pipeline station pumping engine; or
      (3)   The normal application of fertilizers and pesticides.
   REMEDIAL ACTION. Any action consistent with a permanent remedy taken instead
of, or in addition to, any removal actions in the event of a release or
threatened release of a hazardous material into the environment, to prevent or
minimize the release of hazardous materials so that those materials do not
migrate to cause a substantial present or potential hazard to human health,
property or the environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, such
actions at the location of the release as storage; confinement; perimeter
protection using dikes, trenches or ditches, or clay (or other earth) cover;
neutralization; cleanup of released hazardous materials or contaminated
materials; recycling or reuse; diversion; destruction; segregation of reactive
wastes; repair or replacement of leaking containers; collection of leachate and
runoff; on-site treatment or incineration; provision of alternative water
supplies; and any monitoring reasonably required to ensure that such actions
protect public health and welfare, and the environment.
   REMOVAL. The cleanup or removal of released hazardous materials from the
environment; such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to monitor, assess
and evaluate the release or threatened release of hazardous materials; the
disposal of removed material; or the taking of such actions as may be necessary
to prevent, minimize or mitigate damage to public health or welfare, or the
environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, security fencing;
provision of alternative water supplies; and temporary evacuation, reception
and care of threatened persons.
   REPORTABLE QUANTITY. That quantity as defined under the following
classifications.
      (1)   Listed hazardous materials. The quantity appearing in column “RQ”
for each hazardous material listed in:
         (a)   “List of Hazardous Substances and Reportable Quantities,” 40
C.F.R. part 302, as amended; or
         (b)   “Extremely Hazardous Substances,” designated in 40 C.F.R. part
355, under SARA Title III.
      (2)   Petroleum or petroleum products. Twenty-five gallons or more of a
petroleum product within a 24-hour period, and 75 gallons or more of diesel
fuel in a 24-hour period, or any amount that creates a visible sheen on surface
waters.
      (3)   Releases to sanitary sewer system. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this definition, any release of a hazardous material to a sanitary
sewer system, which release is prohibited under applicable pretreatment or
other regulations of the municipal utilities or other sewer system operating in
the county, shall be deemed to be released in reportable quantities.
   RESPONSE. Any remedial or removal action, including, but not limited to,
response by local public safety and emergency agencies, or regional hazardous
materials teams, and subsequent actions taken to ensure the preservation and
protection of the public health, safety and welfare, and the environment.
   VESSEL. Every description of watercraft or other artificial contrivance
used, or capable of being used, as a means of transportation on water.
   WORK PLAN. A written plan that is approved and signed by the responsible
party and used to clean up and dispose of the released product. WORK PLAN shall
include the manner in which the product will be removed; where the waste will
be taken; how it will be transported, including routes to the disposal site;
approval by appropriate state authorities for the disposal; and a timetable for
such action to be completed. If the released product is on property, or
meanders onto property, other than that of the product owner or overseer of the
product, the WORK PLAN shall also include those actions necessary and a
timetable for the return of the property to its original state. The WORK PLAN
shall be submitted to the local Emergency Management Agency Director within 15
days immediately after the emergency portion of the event has concluded, as
established by the fire chief of the fire department with jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) (Ord. 11-10, passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 11-2011, passed 11-
14-2011)
§ 95.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Notice upon discovery. When a release or a threatened release, other
than an authorized release, of a hazardous material in a quantity equal to or
exceeding the reportable quantity hereinbefore established for such material
occurs, or is imminent on or in any facilities of any kind within the county,
the person in charge of such facilities, upon discovery of such release or
threatened release, or otherwise being provided evidence that a release has
occurred, even though controlled, shall immediately cause notice of the
existence of such release or threatened release, the circumstances of same and
the location thereof, to be communicated to the County 911 Communications
Center.
   (B)   Emergency telephone number. The notice required to be given under this
section shall be given by telephoning 911 or such other emergency telephone
number as may be subsequently designated. One completed call to the number,
through which call the required information is communicated, shall meet the
requirements for notification of local agencies.
   (C)   Duty to control releases. The notice required to be given by this
section shall not be construed as forbidding or otherwise exempting any person
on, in or about the facilities from exercising all diligence necessary to
control such release prior or subsequent to such notice to the 911 Emergency
Communication Center, especially if such effort may result in the containment
of the release and/or the abatement of any hazard to life and/or property.
   (D)   Duty to report to other agencies. No statement contained in this
section shall be construed to exempt or release any person from any other
notification or reporting procedures in accordance with applicable state or
federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) (Ord. 11-10, passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 11-2011, passed 11-
14-2011)
§ 95.04 RESPONSE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief of the jurisdiction in which such release or threatened
release is located shall have primary authority for taking remedial or removal
actions necessary to control or contain such release or threatened release, and
to ensure the protection of human health, property and the environment. The
Mayor shall have executive authority for the jurisdiction in which the release
or threatened release occurs.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall immediately report any release or threatened
release to the Mayor and to the County Emergency Services Coordinator, or
equivalent agency within the county government. If, in the opinion of the
executive authority, the seriousness of the situation warrants, the Mayor shall
declare the existence of a state of emergency in the jurisdiction; and,
thereafter, the response authority provided by this section shall be vested in
the Mayor. In that event, the Mayor may authorize the Fire Chief, or other
appropriate person to exercise all or part of the response authority provided
by this section until further notice. As soon as time allows, after arrival on
scene and facts have been gathered to report, the Fire Chief shall notify all
appropriate state officials of the event.
   (C)   All local emergency response personnel shall cooperate with, and
operate under the direction of, the chief executive officer of the
jurisdiction, the Fire Chief or other person then exercising response authority
under this section, until such time as the person then exercising response
authority has determined that the response is complete, or responsibility for
response has been assumed by the state or federal agency having primary
jurisdiction over such release or threatened release.
   (D)   The person exercising response authority under this section shall
coordinate and/or cooperate with other federal, state or local public health,
safety and emergency agencies involved in the response to a release or
threatened release of hazardous materials.
   (E)   The person exercising response authority under this section may, with
the approval of the executive authority of the jurisdiction, obtain vital
supplies, equipment, services and other resources found lacking and needed for
the protection of human health, property or the environment, and obligate the
jurisdiction for the fair market value thereof.
(Prior Code, § 95.04) (Ord. 11-10, passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 11-2011, passed 11-
14-2011)
§ 95.05 LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision or rule of law, the following persons
shall be jointly and severally liable for all costs of removal or other
remedial actions incurred by local public safety and emergency agencies, or the
city, as a result of a release or threatened release of hazardous materials
into the environment:
   (A)   The owner and/or operator of a facility or vessel from which there is
a release or substantial threat of release of hazardous materials;
   (B)   Any person who, at the time of disposal, transport, storage or
treatment of hazardous materials, owned or operated the facility or vessel used
for such disposal, transport, treatment or storage from which there was a
release or substantial threat of a release of hazardous materials;
   (C)   Any person who, by contract, agreement or otherwise, has arranged with
another party or entity for transport, storage, disposal or treatment of
hazardous materials owned, controlled or possessed by another party or entity
from which facility there is a release or substantial threat of a release of
hazardous materials; or
   (D)   Any person who accepts or accepted any hazardous materials for
transport to disposal, storage or treatment facilities from which there is a
release or substantial threat of a release of hazardous materials.
(Prior Code, § 95.05) (Ord. 11-10, passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 11-2011, passed 11-
14-2011)
§ 95.06 AUTHORIZED RELEASE.
   There shall be no liability under this chapter for any release permitted by
local, state or federal law, but only to the extent such release is made in
accordance with an appropriate permit granted by the state or federal agency
having primary jurisdiction over such release, and that such release is in full
compliance with that permit with respect to time, location and manner of the
release so that such release will not create a hazard or potential hazard to
human health, property or the environment; or, if such release is in
substantially lesser quantities than those reportable quantities established by
state or federal law, regulations, permit requirements or ordinances of the
jurisdiction in which such release occurs.
(Prior Code, § 95.06) (Ord. 11-10, passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 11-2011, passed 11-
14-2011)
§ 95.07 CONTRACTUAL INDEMNIFICATION AND SUBROGATION.
   (A)   No conveyance, transfer, sale, indemnification, hold harmless or
similar agreement shall be effective to release the owner or operator of any
facility or vessel or any person who may be liable for a release of hazardous
materials or threat thereof under this chapter. Nothing in this section shall
bar any arrangements to insure, hold harmless or indemnify a party to such
agreement for any liability under this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this section, including the provisions of division (A)
above, shall bar a cause of action an owner, operator or any other person
subject to liability under this chapter, or a guarantor, has or would have by
reason of subrogation or otherwise against any person.
(Prior Code, § 95.07) (Ord. 11-10, passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 11-2011, passed 11-
14-2011)
§ 95.08 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the administering
agency, or on the part of the response authority, for any damages that result
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder. All persons are advised to determine to their own satisfaction the
level of protection, in addition to that required by this chapter, necessary or
desirable to ensure that there is no unauthorized release of hazardous
materials.
(Prior Code, § 95.08) (Ord. 11-10, passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 11-2011, passed 11-
14-2011)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   The County Attorney shall have the authority to charge an owner, manager,
overseer or operator who violates any provision of this chapter. The penalties
for violation so charged shall be as follows:
   (A)   A fine of $500 for a violation consisting of the failure to provide
immediate notification to the local 911 Center or emergency services
authorities, as required herein. In addition, a $100 fine shall be assessed for
each hour thereafter, from the time a release or threatened of release was
discovered until the County 911 Center actually received notification thereof;
   (B)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $500 for each failure
to cooperate with local authorities in performing their duties, or to provide
necessary information concerning when the threat was discovered, what action
was taken prior to notification and arrival of local emergency services, other
dangers that may be involved, free and unrestricted access to the area of
threat, or free and immediate access to interview any and all employees who
witnessed the particular incident or otherwise obtained information in regard
thereto; or for otherwise hindering investigation by local authorities;
   (C)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $500 for failure to
provide a work plan, or to follow the conditions listed in the said work plan
and the requirements as noted under the work plan provisions of this chapter;
and
   (D)   A fine of not less than $100 and not more than $250 for each violation
of any other provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.99) (Ord. 11-10, passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 11-2011, passed 11-
14-2011)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS, PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS AND RECYCLERS
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
114.   YARD SALES
      
115.   AMUSEMENTS
      
116.   ELECTRICAL COMPANIES
      
117.   MOTOR VEHICLE RECYCLERS
      
118.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
119.   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLES AND VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Conditions for issuance and acceptance of licenses
   
110.02   Definition
   
110.03   License required to engage in any business, trade, occupation or
profession
   
110.04   License not transferable
   
110.05   Display of license
   
110.06   Partial payment prohibited
   
110.07   Proration of fees
   
110.08   Amount of fee for persons selling more than one line in same business
   
110.09   Due date; interest and penalty for nonpayment
   
110.10   Enforcement by Chief of Police and/or police officers
   
110.11   Closing of business for nonpayment
   
110.12   Specifications for business proprietor and employees
   
110.13   Schedule of fees
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE AND ACCEPTANCE OF LICENSES.
   The issuance and acceptance of each and all of the licenses provided for in
§
110.13 of this chapter, and the use and enjoyment of the privileges thereby
granted, shall be subject to the provisions and conditions that follow in §§
110.02 through
110.12 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. passed 11-24-1986)
§ 110.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, PERSON, FIRM or CORPORATION shall apply to
individuals engaged and associated in the same occupation, profession and
conducting their business in the same manner as if one person was the sole
owner and manager.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) (Ord. passed 11-24-1986)
§ 110.03 LICENSE REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN ANY BUSINESS, TRADE, OCCUPATION OR
PROFESSION.
   Before exercising any of the privileges of engaging in any business, trade,
occupation or profession in the city, during the license year, every person,
firm or corporation, desiring to do so shall first procure the city license and
pay the fee or tax.
(Prior Code, § 110.03) (Ord. passed 11-24-1986) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license shall be transferred or transferable.
(Prior Code, § 110.04) (Ord. passed 11-24-1986) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   All licenses must be permanently and conspicuously displayed in the original
place of business for which they are granted.
(Prior Code, § 110.05) (Ord. passed 11-24-1986) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 PARTIAL PAYMENT PROHIBITED.
   No partial payment for any kind of license shall be allowed or accepted.
(Prior Code, § 110.06) (Ord. passed 11-24-1986)
§ 110.07 PRORATION OF FEES.
   (A)   All license, privilege and occupational fees due to the city pursuant
to this chapter shall be prorated for the year during which the same are
required.
   (B)   The business, trade, occupation or profession shall pay the city an
amount equal to one-twelfth of the annual tax of license fee imposed times the
number of months remaining in the calendar year, and any fraction of a month
shall be counted as a whole month.
(Prior Code, § 110.07) (Ord. passed 11-24-1986; Ord. 91-8, passed 12-9-1991)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR PERSONS SELLING MORE THAN ONE LINE IN SAME BUSINESS.
   Any person, firm or corporation that sells more than one line in the same
business shall pay full license fee on the main line and 35% on each additional
line as set forth in this chapter. In the event there is a question as to the
main line, the City Clerk/Treasurer and/or the City Council shall determine the
same.
(Prior Code, § 110.08) (Ord. passed 11-24-1986) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 DUE DATE; INTEREST AND PENALTY FOR NONPAYMENT.
   All license fees or taxes shall become due and payable on January 1 of each
year, and if not paid within one month thereafter, the fees or taxes shall bear
interest from January 1 of each year at 12% and a penalty of 10% of the
principal sum is levied by reasons of nonpayment.
(Prior Code, § 110.09) (Ord. passed 11-24-1986)
§ 110.10 ENFORCEMENT BY CHIEF OF POLICE AND/OR POLICE OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and/or police officers to
inspect and report to the City Council on proper licenses issued and the proper
display of same, and to swear out and have warrants issued for the arrest of
violators of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.10) (Ord. passed 11-24-1986)
§ 110.11 CLOSING OF BUSINESS FOR NONPAYMENT.
   For nonpayment of the license within 30 days after the penalty date, the
City Council may at its discretion instruct the Mayor to order the places of
business closed.
(Prior Code, § 110.11) (Ord. passed 11-24-1986)
§ 110.12 SPECIFICATIONS FOR BUSINESS PROPRIETOR AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, each business shall have one
proprietor and any additional proprietor shall be considered a full-time
employee.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, a FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE shall be any
person working over 30 hours per week. Any person working 30 or fewer hours per
week shall be considered PART TIME and will be counted as half.
(Prior Code, § 110.12) (Ord. passed 11-24-1986)
§ 110.13 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The annual license fees or taxes to be paid to the city for the purpose of
general revenue are hereinafter specified, and they are imposed upon and
required of all persons, firms and corporations who shall exercise the
privileges or engage in the businesses, trades, occupations and professions set
out in this section designated in the city, for and during each license year
from January 1 to December 31 each year, and which are as follows:
Business, Profession or Occupation Fee/Tax
Business, Profession or Occupation                                            Fee/
                                                                              Tax
Accountants, certified and non-certified                                      $150
Adding machines, cash registers, typewriters, renting, selling or repair      $100
Adult care                                                                    $100
Advertising billboards, each board                                            $100
Advertising or soliciting advertisement, not specifically licensed, each
person
   Per day                                                                 $25
   Per year                                                                $100
Agents, representatives or solicitors, not otherwise licensed or specifically
provided for taking or soliciting orders or making sales (making sales to
others than those businesses, trades, occupations, professions or entities
covered by items of this chapter)
   Per day                                                                 $25
   Per year                                                                $100
Air conditioning and heaving (HVAC)                                           $150
Appliances and engine sales and repair                                        $50
Architects and draftspersons                                                  $100
Attorneys, each person                                                        $150
Auction house or lot
   Per day                                                                 $25
   Per year                                                                $150
Auctioneers
   Per day                                                                 $25
   Per year, unless licensed as real estate dealer                         $100
Automobile body, building, repairs                                            $175
Automobile, buying and selling used cars, each lot not used in operation of   $175
garage or new car agency
Automobile financing, each person or agency nonresident company having a
representative, solicitor, correspondent or agent in the city, engaged in the
business of financing or loaning money on automobiles and taking chattel      $150
mortgages thereon or bills of sales secured therefore or buying the notes on
bills of sales secured by mortgage or other liens on the same
Automobile garages, repairs                                                   $175
Automobile supplies, wholesale                                                $100
Awnings, as in or installation of                                             $100
Bakery                                                                        $100
Bakery, agency, each agent delivering from truck                              $100
Banks and other financial lending institutions                                $1,000
Barber shop, first chair                                                      $50
   Each additional chair                                                   $15
Beauty shop, first operator                                                   $50
   Each additional operator                                                $15
Bingo or game of chance
   Per day                                                                 $500
   Per year                                                                $200
Bowling alleys                                                                $100
Branch banks                                                                  $500
Brick or stone mason                                                          $60
Broadcasting studio                                                           $150
Broker, merchandise                                                           $100
Cabinet maker or furniture shop                                               $100
Car wash                                                                      $100
Carnival or circus, per week or fraction thereof                              $200
Carpenter                                                                     $75
Carpet cleaners                                                               $100
Cash advance, including any business doing paycheck or other advance          $250
Chiropractor                                                                  $150
Computer service and/or repair                                                $150
Concrete blocks, concrete ready mix, manufacture and sale of                  $200
Contractor, engaged in the business of contracting for building, or other
work and employing
   Less than 3 employees                                                   $75
   3 to 10 employees                                                       $100
   10 or more employees                                                    $250
Credit, collecting or bookkeeping                                             $100
Daycare                                                                       $100
Dentistry, per dentist                                                        $150
Drycleaning                                                                   $100
Electrician working by hour or job                                            $75
Engineers                                                                     $150
Excavating contractors
   Less than 5 pieces of multi-wheel or track equipment                    $150
   5 pieces or more of multi-wheel or track equipment                      $200
Exhibitions, given on the streets or in any building in the city to which     $100
admission is charged, per event
Exterminators, pest control                                                   $100
Farm service, equipment and supply store                                      $100
Flea markets                                                                  $100
Flooring, selling and/or installing                                           $100
Florist and/or nursery                                                        $100
Fortune teller, hypnotist, magnetic or divine healer, phrenologist faith      $1,000
cure, palmistry or similar occupation for reward or compensation
Frame shop                                                                    $100
Funeral home                                                                  $250
Garbage and rubbish removal                                                   $100
Gas, bottle, delivery or causing to be delivered                              $100
Gasoline and fuel center, per pump                                            $25
Gasoline, kerosene and lubricating oil, wholesale delivery in city            $150
Gift, novelty shop or antique shop                                            $100
Greenhouses                                                                   $100
Groceries, retail
   Proprietor plus 1 employee                                              $100
   Proprietor plus 2 to 10 employees                                       $150
   Proprietor plus 10 employees                                            $250
Groceries, wholesale delivery by truck from warehouse, maintained within the  $250
city
Gun repair and sales                                                          $100
Hardware, dealer, retail sales                                                $100
Health spas or gyms                                                           $100
Hospitals                                                                     $1,500
Hotel with less than 10 rooms                                                 $100
   10+ rooms                                                               $150
Ice cream manufacturing, selling and delivering                               $100
Ice cream, selling from cars, trucks or other vehicles                        $200
Ice, manufacturing, selling and delivering wholesale                          $100
Insurance adjuster                                                            $100
Insurance agent not included below                                            $150
Insurance business, general agency                                            $150
Interior decorator                                                            $100
Janitorial                                                                    $75
Jewelry store                                                                 $100
Laundromat                                                                    $100
Lawn care services, excluding lawn mowing                                     $50
Lawn mowing                                                                   $0
Loans, small, each company                                                    $150
Lumberyard, wholesale or retail                                               $100
Machine, slot or coin, including all vending machines, soft drinks, pin ball  $100
or any other coin/slug-operated machine for charity
Manufacturing or industry (except first five years of operation)
   Less than 25 employees                                                  $150
   25+ employees                                                           $300
Medicine, practicing the profession of
   4 persons per practice group                                            $500
   Each additional practitioner                                            $125
Mercantile business or corporation selling at retail, goods, appliances, gas
or electric, other than groceries
   Proprietor plus 1 employee                                              $100
   Proprietor plus 2 to 10 employees                                       $150
   Proprietor plus 10+ employees                                           $250
Mobile food vendors                                                           $200
Mobile home parks, each mobile home                                           $10
Mobile home sales                                                             $200
Monument sales                                                                $100
Motel and/or tourist court
   Less than 10 units                                                      $100
   10+ units                                                               $150
Music retail store                                                            $100
Neon signs, installing/repairing                                              $100
Newspapers, publishing and/or job printing                                    $100
Nursing home                                                                  $500
Oculist or optometrist, each person                                           $150
Office equipment and supplies                                                 $100
Painters, paper hangers, floor sanders by job/hour                            $75
Paints, glass and wallpaper                                                   $100
Parking lots or garage                                                        $100
Paving contractor
   Less than 5 pieces of multi-wheel or track equipment                    $150
   5+ pieces of multi-wheel or track equipment                             $200
Peddlers of any kind from car, truck, vacant lot                              $50
Pharmacy                                                                      $150
Photographer
   Local                                                                   $50
   Traveling per day                                                       $20
   Traveling per year                                                      $50
Plasterers working by hour or job                                             $75
Plumbing, heating and/or pipefitting
   Less than 3 employees                                                   $75
   3 to 8 employees                                                        $100
   8+ employees                                                            $250
Real estate agency, including principal broker                                $150
Real estate agents not covered above                                          $100
Rentals (such as U-Haul)                                                      $150
Restaurant
   Proprietor plus 1 employee                                              $100
   Proprietor plus 2 to 10 employees                                       $150
   Proprietor plus 10+ employees                                           $250
Savings and loan                                                              $500
Seamstress                                                                    $100
Sheet metal working by hour or job                                            $100
Shoe repair                                                                   $50
Skating rink                                                                  $100
Solicitors, door-to-door, except for charity
   Per day                                                                 $20
   Per year                                                                $100
Sporting goods                                                                $100
Tattoo, body piercing                                                         $500
Tax preparation                                                               $100
Taxicab, each cab                                                             $30
Television broadcasting studio, soliciting advertising                        $250
Theatres                                                                      $100
Tire dealer                                                                   $150
Tourist homes, boarding houses, and bed and breakfast                         $100
Trucks or automobile, used for business in the city at a rated capacity
   1/2-ton or less                                                         $100
   3/4-ton                                                                 $100
   1-ton                                                                   $100
   1-1/2-ton trucks                                                        $125
   2-ton and over                                                          $150
   This does not apply to farm vehicles, when a trailer is attached to any
truck for which license is required by this chapter, the ton capacity, or
load limit of the trailer shall be added to the ton capacity of the truck in
tonnage class. Trucks or automobiles of any business which pays any other
license fee are exempt from this fee.
Veterinary                                                                    $150
Warehouse and storage                                                         $200
Welders                                                                       $75
Wrecker                                                                       $100
 
(Prior Code, § 110.13) (Ord. passed 11-24-1986; Ord. 06-01, passed 2-13-2006;
Ord. passed - -2009; Ord. 23-04, passed 11-28-2022)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation engaging in any business, profession or
calling or the doing of business, profession or calling, or the doing of
anything for which a license is required, without first procuring a license
therefor, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be
fined any sum not less than $5 nor more than $500 or imprisoned in the county
jail not less than one nor more than 30 days, or both so fined and imprisoned,
for each violation. Each day the business, occupation, profession, trade or
calling is engaged in, or the doing of anything for which a license is
required, without the license, shall constitute a separate offense, but no
prosecution shall be a bar to a civil action for the recovery of the required
license fee or fees.
(Prior Code, § 110.99) (Ord. passed 11-24-1986)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of that business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   (a)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means
carrying goods for sale, making sales or making deliveries; or
         (b)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (2)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
(Prior Code, § 111.01)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk/Treasurer. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their applications the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business; and
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as
the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
applications, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or possesses any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
(Prior Code, § 111.04)
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk/Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. This notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 111.05)
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or conviction of the licensee
of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in a way as
to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the
public.
(Prior Code, § 111.06)
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Council, within 14 days after notice of the decision
has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written statement setting
forth the grounds for appeal. The Council shall set the time and place for a
hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the person in the same
manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the Council after the hearing shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 111.07)
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
“Licensed Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during the time that he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
(Prior Code, § 111.08)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 111.99)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS, PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS AND RECYCLERS
Section
Pawnbrokers and Precious Metal Dealers
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Pawnbroker not to receive article from minor or during night
   
112.03   Pawnbroker to keep register of loans and purchases; state officers may
inspect
   
112.04   Pawnbroker to give ticket and receipt for articles; sale after 60
days; notice before sale
   
112.05   Daily reports in cities and unincorporated areas
   
112.06   Maximum interest; service charges
   
112.07   Receipts for payments
   
112.08   Ten-day hold for purchased items
   
112.09   Duties of precious metal dealers
   
112.10   Hold of purchased metals by precious metal dealer
   
112.11   Transactions with persons convicted of larceny-related offenses
prohibited
   
112.12   Reporting through web-based central reporting system
   
112.13   Separate violations
Recyclers
   
112.25   Definition
   
112.26   Duties of purchasers of metal and objects containing metal
   
112.27   Records received by law enforcement
   
112.28   Business records
   
112.29   Exceptions
   
112.30   Prohibited items to be purchased by recyclers
   
112.31   Ferrous metal transactions
   
112.32   Full description of purchased metal
   
112.33   Reporting through web-based central reporting system
   
112.34   Transactions with persons convicted of larceny-related offenses
prohibited
   
112.35   Separate violations
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Motor vehicle recyclers, see
Chapter 117
PAWNBROKERS AND PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LEADSONLINE. An existing web-based central reporting system that allows
pawnbrokers and precious metal dealers to report their transactions to law
enforcement with information required by Kentucky Revised Statutes and this
chapter.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property, or
who deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the
property back again at a stipulated price, or who makes a public display at his
or her place of business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote
their business, or who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on
personal property or deposit is a pawnbroker.
   PRECIOUS METAL DEALER. Any business that engages in the purchase of
nonferrous metals for the purposes of reselling and/or recycling metal for its
physical qualities. Businesses are also identified as PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS if
that business advertises that they purchase gold or silver for cash. A PRECIOUS
METAL DEALER does not include any recycler who, as part of their business,
purchases motor vehicles for scrap metal.
(Prior Code, § 112.01) (Ord. 11-01, passed 11-14-2011)
Statutory reference:
   For similar definitions under state law, see KRS 226.010
§ 112.02 PAWNBROKER NOT TO RECEIVE ARTICLE FROM MINOR OR DURING NIGHT.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of pledge or pawn, any article whatever
from a minor at any time, nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 112.02) (Ord. 11-01, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   For similar provision, see KRS 226.030
§ 112.03 PAWNBROKER TO KEEP REGISTER OF LOANS AND PURCHASES; STATE
OFFICERS MAY INSPECT.
   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of all
articles effected or made by him or her. The register shall show the dates of
all loans or purchases, and the names of all persons who have left any property
on deposit as collateral security, or as a delivery or sale. Opposite the names
and dates shall be written in plain hand a full description of all property
purchased or received on deposit as collateral security, the time when the loan
falls due, the amount of purchase money, the amount loaned and the interest
charged. The register shall at all times be open to the inspection of any
officer of this state when in the discharge of his or her official duty.
(Prior Code, § 112.03) (Ord. 11-01, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 226.040
§ 112.04 PAWNBROKER TO GIVE TICKET AND RECEIPT FOR ARTICLES; SALE AFTER 60
DAYS; NOTICE BEFORE SALE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased, or upon which money is
loaned, having on each a copy of the entries required by KRS 226.040 to be kept
in his or her register. He or she shall not make any charge for the ticket or
receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan; provided that, not less than ten days
before making the sale, the pawnbroker shall have given notice to the person by
whom the article was pawned, by mail addressed to the post office address of
such person as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying such person that,
unless he or she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing
said notice, the article will be sold.
(Prior Code, § 112.04) (Ord. 11-01, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 226.050
§ 112.05 DAILY REPORTS IN CITIES AND UNINCORPORATED AREAS.
   (A)    Every pawnbroker in a city or in the unincorporated area of any
county shall by 11:00 a.m.
each day, make available to the Chief of Police of the city, the chief law
enforcement officer of the county or to the Department of Kentucky State
Police, a true and correct written report of all goods received by him or her,
whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report. The
report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable.
   (B)   The Chief of Police of the city, the chief law enforcement officer of
the county or the Department of Kentucky State Police shall furnish blanks for
the reports required by division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 112.05) (Ord. 11-01, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 226.070
§ 112.06 MAXIMUM INTEREST; SERVICE CHARGES.
   Any pawnbroker, as defined in KRS 226.010, may, in loaning money on deposit
of personal property, charge, contract for or receive interest at a rate not
exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid principal balance of the loan, and may
charge, contract for and receive a reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of
the value of the loan per month, for investigating the title, storing and
insuring the property, closing the loan, making daily reports to local law
enforcement officers and for other expenses, losses and incidental costs
associated with servicing such loans. It is further provided that such fee when
made and collected shall not be deemed interest for any purpose of law. No
pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly charge, receive or contract for any
interest or consideration greater than that allowed by this section.
(Prior Code, § 112.06) (Ord. 11-01, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 226.080
§ 112.07 RECEIPTS FOR PAYMENTS.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to such person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give such person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(Prior Code, § 112.07) (Ord. 11-01, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 226.090
§ 112.08 TEN-DAY HOLD FOR PURCHASE ITEMS.
   Pawnbrokers shall place a ten-day hold on items purchased without a pawn
agreement before reselling such property.
(Prior Code, § 112.08) (Ord. 11-01, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 DUTIES OF PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS.
   Precious metal dealers shall be subject to pawnbroker orders listed in §§
112.03 and
112.05.
(Prior Code, § 112.09) (Ord. 11-01, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 HOLD OF PURCHASED METALS BY PRECIOUS METAL DEALER.
   Precious metal dealers shall place a ten-day hold on items purchased, in
their original form upon
entering a precious metal dealer, before those items may be resold, damaged or
recycled.
(Prior Code, § 112.10) (Ord. 11-01, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 TRANSACTIONS WITH PERSONS CONVICTED OF LARCENY-RELATED OFFENSES
PROHIBITED.
   Pawnbrokers and precious metal dealers are prohibited from engaging in any
transaction for a period of three years with a person convicted of a crime in
any County Court where their conviction involved the selling or pawning of
stolen property to any pawnbroker or precious metal dealer in the county, the
City of Irvine or the City of Ravenna, Kentucky. Law enforcement shall supply
pawnbrokers and precious metal dealers with the names and date of conviction of
anyone convicted of such crime.
(Prior Code, § 112.11) (Ord. 11-01, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 REPORTING THROUGH WEB-BASED CENTRAL REPORTING SYSTEM.
   Reporting to a web-based central reporting system identified as Leadsonline
shall be the primary method of reporting transactions for pawnbrokers and
precious metal dealers and will suffice for reporting directly to the
appropriate law enforcement agency as set forth in §
112.05. In the event an unintended circumstance prevents reporting through the
web-based system, pawnbrokers and precious metal dealers shall revert to
reporting in accordance with §
112.05.
(Prior Code, § 112.12) (Ord. 11-01, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 SEPARATE VIOLATIONS.
   Each incident which results in a violation of this subchapter shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 112.13) (Ord. 11-01, passed 11-14-2011)
RECYCLERS
§ 112.25 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LEADSONLINE. An existing web-based central reporting system that allows
recyclers to report their transactions to law enforcement with information
required by Kentucky Revised Statute and this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.20) (Ord. 11-02, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 112.26 DUTIES OF PURCHASERS OF METAL AND OBJECTS CONTAINING METAL.
   Every recycler, dealer in junk or metals, dealer in secondhand articles,
vendor of bottles or rags, collector of, or dealer in articles found in ashes,
garbage or other refuse, whether such dealers, collectors or vendors have
established places of business or operate a business of an itinerant nature,
shall, with regard to any catalytic converter, metal beverage container that is
capable of holding more than two liters of beverage and is marketed as
returnable, railroad rails, nonferrous metal or an alloy thereof, ferrous or an
object containing nonferrous metal, ferrous metal, or an alloy thereof:
   (A)   Keep a register that contains:
      (1)   A photocopy of a valid driver’s license or other government-issued
identification card or document which contains the name, photograph and
signature of the seller. If the purchaser has a copy of the seller’s valid
photo identification on file, it shall not be necessary for the purchaser to
make another copy of the identification document for each purchase if the
purchaser references the number on the identification document in the register
at the time of each purchase;
      (2)   The state and license number of the motor vehicle used to transport
the purchased catalytic converter, metal beverage container that is capable of
holding more than two liters of beverage and is marketed as returnable,
railroad rail, nonferrous metal or an alloy thereof, or object containing
nonferrous metal or an alloy thereof, to the place of purchase, which shall be
provided by the seller of the items;
      (3)   The time and date of the transaction;
      (4)   A description in the usage of the trade of the kind and weight of
the railroad rail, nonferrous metal or an alloy thereof, or object containing
the nonferrous metal or an alloy thereof purchased; and
      (5)   The amount paid for the material and the unit basis of the
purchase, such as by ounce or pound and the like.
   (B)   Not purchase any metal that has been smelted, burned or melted unless,
in addition to the other requirements of this division (B), the seller provides
the following, and the purchaser maintains a copy thereof:
      (1)   A signed certificate of ownership stating that he or she is the
owner of the metal and is entitled to sell it; or
      (2)   A signed certificate from the owner of the metal stating that he or
she is the owner of the metal, and that the person selling the metal is
authorized to sell the metal on behalf of the owner.
   (C)   Not purchase any catalytic converter, metal beverage container that is
capable of holding more than two liters of beverage and is marketed as
returnable, railroad rail, nonferrous metal or an alloy thereof, or an object
containing nonferrous metal or an alloy thereof from a person who:
      (1)   Is less than 18 years of age; or
      (2)   Is unable or refuses to provide the identification and information
required in division (A) above.
   (D)   Retain the information required by this section for a period of two
years, after which time, the information may be retained, destroyed in a manner
that protects the identity of the owner of the property and the seller of the
property, or transferred to a law enforcement agency specified in division (G)
below;
   (E)    If the purchaser ceases business, transfer all records and
information required by this section to a law enforcement agency specified in
division (G) below;
   (F)   Permit any peace officer to inspect the register, and if the peace
officer deems it necessary to locate specific stolen property, may inspect the
catalytic converter, metal beverage and container that is capable of holding
more than two liters of beverage is marketed as returnable, railroad rail,
nonferrous metal or an alloy thereof, or object containing nonferrous metal or
an alloy thereof received during business hours;
   (G)   Upon written request of the sheriff or Chief of Police, as
appropriate, make a report containing the information required to be retained
in the register under division (A) above in person, in digital format, in
writing or by electronic means within 24 hours of the transaction to:
      (1)   The sheriff of the county in which the purchase was made and the
sheriff of the county in which the business is located; and
      (2)   When the purchase was made in a city, county, urban-county, charter
county, consolidated local government or unified local government, to the
Police Department of the city, county, urban-county, charter county,
consolidated local government or unified local government in which the purchase
is made and the Police Department of the city, county, urban-county, charter
county, consolidated local government or unified local government in which the
business is located, unless there is no police department in that jurisdiction.
   (H)   Comply with a written request pursuant to division (G) above until a
written notice to cease sending the reports required by division (G) above is
received by the purchaser. A request may relate to:
      (1)   All records of purchases;
      (2)   Records of a specific class of metals or items purchased;
      (3)   Records of purchases during a specific period of time; or
      (4)   Records of a specific purchase or purchases.
   (I)   Retain, the property in its original form or a photograph or digital
image of the property for a period of three business days from the date of
purchase unless notified by a peace officer having reasonable cause to believe
that the property may be stolen property, in which case, the property may be
seized as evidence by the peace officer or, if not seized, shall be retained
for an additional 30 days unless earlier notified by a peace officer that the
property may be sold.
(Prior Code, § 112.21) (Ord. 11-02, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.27 RECORDS RECEIVED BY LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   A sheriff or Police Department receiving records pursuant to this subchapter
shall retain the records for two years, after which time, it may either retain
or destroy the records in a manner that protects the identity of the owner of
the property, the seller of the property and the purchaser of the property.
(Prior Code, § 112.22) (Ord. 11-02, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.28 BUSINESS RECORDS.
   Any record required to be made or reported pursuant to this subchapter may
be kept and reported in hard copy or digital or in electronic format.
(Prior Code, § 112.23) (Ord. 11-02, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 112.29 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to the purchase, sale or transfer of:
   (A)   A motor vehicle, aircraft or other item that is licensed by the state
or federal government pursuant to a legitimate transfer of title or issuance of
a junk title;
   (B)   A firearm, part of a firearm, firearm accessory, ammunition or
ammunition component;
   (C)   A knife, knife parts, accessory or sheath for a knife, or knifemaking
products;
   (D)   A nonreturnable used beverage container or food container;
   (E)   Jewelry, household goods containing metal, garden tools and similar
household items, except for a catalytic converter or metal beverage container
that is capable of holding more than two liters of liquid and which is marketed
as returnable, which takes place at a flea market or yard sale;
   (F)   A single transaction involving a purchase price of $10 or less, but
more than two transactions with the same person involving a purchase price of
$10 or less in one seven-day period shall be reportable transactions;
   (G)   Material disposed of as trash or refuse that contains or may contain a
catalytic converter, metal beverage container that is capable of holding more
than two liters of beverage and is marketed as returnable, railroad rail,
nonferrous metals or an alloy thereof, or an object that contains or may
contain a railroad rail or nonferrous metals or an alloy thereof, which is
collected by a municipal waste department or by a licensed waste hauler and no
payment is made to the person from whom the material is collected by the person
or agency collecting the material;
   (H)   A catalytic converter, metal beverage container that is capable of
holding more than two liters of beverage and marketed as returnable, railroad
rail, nonferrous metal or alloy thereof, or an object containing railroad rail,
nonferrous metal or an alloy thereof from a person who has maintained a record
pursuant to this subchapter to a person who is to further recycle the metal or
object containing the metal;
   (I)   A catalytic converter, metal beverage container that is capable of
holding more than two liters of beverage and marketed as returnable, railroad
rail, nonferrous metal or an alloy thereof, or object containing nonferrous
metal or an alloy thereof under a written contract with an organization,
corporation or association registered with the commonwealth as a charitable,
philanthropic religious, fraternal, civic, patriotic, social or school
sponsored organization;
   (J)   A purchase, pursuant to a written contract, from a manufacturing,
industrial or other commercial vendor that generates catalytic converters,
metal beverage containers capable of holding more than two liters of beverage
and which are marketed as returnable, railroad rail, nonferrous metal or an
alloy thereof, or object containing nonferrous metal in the ordinary course of
business;
   (K)   An item purchased by, pawned to or sold by a pawnbroker licensed
pursuant to KRS Chapter 226, engaging in the business authorized by that
chapter; or
   (L)   A catalytic converter, metal beverage container that is capable of
holding more than two liters of beverage and is marked as returnable, or
railroad rails.
(Prior Code, § 112.24) (Ord. 11-02, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 112.30 PROHIBITED ITEMS TO BE PURCHASED BY RECYCLERS.
   No recycler shall accept any metal that bares a municipality name, utility
company and/or government wastewater removal entity or property that is used
for highway safety. This specifically includes, but not limited to, manhole
covers, storm grates, and guard rails and their supports. These items may be
sold to a recycler by the originating entity or by anyone in possession of a
notarized letter containing:
   (A)   The originating agency’s name and authorizing officials contact
information;
   (B)   The name of the person who was given the metal for disposal by the
authorizing official. The person listed on this notarized letter by the
authorizing official shall be the only seller of these specific metals to the
recycler; and
   (C)   A list of materials that is to be released to the person for disposal.
(Prior Code, § 112.25) (Ord. 11-02, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.31 FERROUS METAL TRANSACTIONS.
   All ferrous metals shall also be included in the duties of purchasers set
forth in §
112.26. Included in ferrous metals are trailers and mowing equipment.
(Prior Code, § 112.26) (Ord. 11-02, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 112.32 FULL DESCRIPTION OF PURCHASED METAL.
   Make, model, type and/or serial numbers shall be reported in accordance with
§
112.26. In addition, a photograph, digital or video image may be maintained by
the recycler to ensure compliance with this section. In the event a make,
model, type or serial number cannot be located, the purchaser shall report a
full detailed description of the item purchased.
(Prior Code, § 112.27) (Ord. 11-02, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.33 REPORTING THROUGH WEB-BASED CENTRAL REPORTING SYSTEM.
   Reporting to a web-based central reporting system identified as Leadsonline
shall be the primary method of reporting transactions and will suffice for
reporting directly to the appropriate law enforcement agency as set forth in §
112.26. In the event an unintended circumstance prevents reporting through the
web-based system, recyclers shall revert to reporting in accordance with §
112.26.
(Prior Code, § 112.28) (Ord. 11-02, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.34 TRANSACTIONS WITH PERSONS CONVICTED OF LARCENY-RELATED OFFENSES
PROHIBITED.
   Recyclers are prohibited from engaging in any transaction for a period of
three years with a person convicted of a crime in any County Court where their
conviction involved the selling of stolen metal or a stolen motor vehicle to
any recycler in the county, the City of Irvine or the City of Ravenna. Law
enforcement shall supply recyclers with the names and date of conviction of
anyone convicted of such crime.
(Prior Code, § 112.29) (Ord. 11-02, passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.35 SEPARATE VIOLATIONS.
   Each incident which results in a violation of this subchapter shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 112.30) (Ord. 11-02, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalty for violation of §§
112.01 through
112.13 shall be as follows:
      (1)   First conviction: Class B misdemeanor constituting a fine not to
exceed $250 and/or up to 90 days in jail; and
      (2)   Second conviction: Class A misdemeanor constituting a fine not to
exceed $500 and/or up to one year in jail.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of §§
112.25 through
112.35 shall be as follows: Class A misdemeanor constituting a fine not to
exceed $500 and/or up to one year in jail.
(Prior Code, § 112.99) (Ord. 11-01, passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 11-02, passed 11-
14-2011)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 226.990
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04   Due date; interest
   
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
(Prior Code, § 113.01) (Ord. passed 11-28-2005)
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 10% of the first year’s premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of the policies.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) (Ord. passed 11-28-2005)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 91A.080(2)
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 10% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of the policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which the company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policyholders: however, any license fee or tax
imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability of personal injures to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers’ Compensation laws and
shall not include premiums received on policies of group health insurance
provided for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2) and 18A.228 or, premiums
received by any state employee benefit fund created pursuant to KRS Chapter 18A
for the purpose of providing health benefits to state employees.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) (Ord. passed 11-28-2005)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 91A.080(3)
   State Workers’ Compensation laws, see KRS 342.0011 et seq.
§ 113.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(Prior Code, § 113.04) (Ord. passed 11-28-2005)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 91A.080(8), (9)
§ 113.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Prior Code, § 113.05) (Ord. passed 11-28-2005)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 91A.080(8)
CHAPTER 114: YARD SALES
Section
   
114.01   Permit required
   
114.02   Posting of permit on demand of police required
   
114.03   Issuance of permit; conditions
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for a yard sale to be conducted in the city without
first obtaining a valid permit from the City Clerk/Treasurer for the sum of $5
per sale. The permit first required to be obtained before a yard sale may be
held shall be issued to a physical address. Regardless of the number of persons
residing at any given location, restrictions as to place, time and frequency of
yard sales shall apply to the physical location of the yard sale.
(Prior Code, § 114.01) (Ord. 8-72, passed 8-28-1972; Ord. 3-90, passed 3-27-
1990; Ord. 02-2002, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 POSTING OF PERMIT ON DEMAND OF POLICE REQUIRED.
   Failure to post the permit upon demand by the police of the city shall be
prima facie evidence of violation of this chapter requiring citation by the
police of the city.
(Prior Code, § 114.02) (Ord. 8-72, passed 8-28-1972; Ord. 3-90, passed 3-27-
1990; Ord. 02-2002, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   The permit required by §
114.01 shall be issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer upon application therefore,
and shall be subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   The permit shall specify the date on which the yard sale is permitted
to be conducted.
   (B)   No applicant shall be permitted to conduct a sale or sales for more
than six days in any one year. A year is from January 1 to December 31.
   (C)   No applicant shall be permitted to conduct a sale or sales for more
than three days in any one month.
   (D)   No applicant shall be permitted to conduct a sale or sales for more
than three days in succession.
   (E)   No signs shall be posted on utility poles or street signs and all
signs shall be removed after sale. The applicant and physical address or
location of any yard sale found to be advertised by any posting upon any
utility pole, street sign or public property, or upon any private property
without consent, shall be prohibited from any other yard sale, and no permit
shall be granted for a period of one year from the violation.
   (F)   No yard sales may be conducted on any Sunday.
   (G)   No yard sales may be held during the three days of the annual Mushroom
Festival.
(Prior Code, § 114.03) (Ord. 8-72, passed 8-28-1972; Ord. 3-90, passed 3-27-
1990; Ord. 02-2002, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall conduct a yard sale in the city without having in his
or her possession a valid permit from the City Clerk/Treasurer shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $25
nor more than $100. Each day that a sale is conducted without a permit shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 114.99) (Ord. 8-72, passed 8-28-1972; Ord. 3-90, passed 3-27-
1990; Ord. 02-2002, passed - -)
CHAPTER 115: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
115.01   Definition
   
115.02   Hours of operation
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLACES OF AMUSEMENT. Any place of amusement with an electronic game and/or
games, billiards and/or pool tables located therein.
(Prior Code, § 115.01) (Ord. 8-9-82, passed - -)
§ 115.02 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the hours that places of amusement
must not be open for business are between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.,
Sunday through Saturday of each week.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person,
partnership, association, company, corporation, syndicate or other groups, or
groups of organization of individuals who may own, control and/or operate a
place of amusement within the hours prohibited herein above under division (A)
above.
(Prior Code, § 115.02) (Ord. 8-9-82, passed - -) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any individual, partnership, association, company, corporation, syndicate or
any other groups of individuals violating any provision of this chapter shall
constitute a violation and the citing officer shall make a complaint to the
District Court and shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 115.99) (Ord. 8-9-82, passed - -)
CHAPTER 116: ELECTRICAL COMPANIES
Section
   
116.01   Permit required
   
116.02   Wiring requirements
   
116.03   Electrical Inspector
   
116.04   Inspection required
   
116.05   Liability
   
116.06   Fees for inspection and certificate
   
116.07   License
   
116.08   License fee
 
   
116.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Electrical inspection fees, see §
150.05
§ 116.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any individual or group of individuals applying for a license to carry on
electrical installations and wiring within the city shall fully verify to the
license issuing bureau that they are qualified to perform electrical work in
accordance with the rules, regulations and requirements of the latest edition
of the National Electrical Code. In the event that the license issuing bureau
cannot fully decide upon his or her qualification, these individuals or
individual may be brought before a meeting of the licensed electrical
contractors.
(Prior Code, § 116.01) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 116.02 WIRING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All electrical wiring and appliances hereafter installed in or
attached to any building or structure or added to any existing electric wiring,
within the corporate limits of the city, shall be sufficiently insulated,
supported, protected free from hazards to life or property caused by
overloading or short circuiting, installed in accordance with the rules,
regulations and requirements of the latest edition of the National Electrical
Code, and subject to the inspection and approval of the city’s Electrical
Inspector.
   (B)   All materials, flexible cords, fittings or devices shall be of an
approved type and all electrical wiring shall be maintained in accordance with
the Code.
(Prior Code, § 116.02) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 116.03 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Council shall at its pleasure appoint a licensed Electrical
Inspector, whose duty it shall be to make the inspections herein provided and
issue certificates approving work done in accord herewith and who shall receive
and be paid only fees provided by §
116.06. The Electrical Inspector will inspect work done only by electricians
duly licensed by the city.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any person installing work under this chapter
to notify the Electrical Inspector on the blank furnished for that purpose when
the work is ready for inspection and pay the fees in advance.
(Prior Code, § 116.03) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 116.04 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to conceal
electrical wiring until after the wiring shall have been inspected and a
certificate of approval issued.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any electric light or power company to
connect with or furnish current to any electric installation within the
corporate limits of this city until after the electric installation shall have
been inspected and a certificate of approval issued.
(Prior Code, § 116.04) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.05 LIABILITY.
   This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any person, firm or corporation owning,
operating, controlling or installing any electric wiring, electric devices or
electric material, or furnish electric current, for damage to person or
property caused by any defect therein nor shall the city be held as assuming
any liability to reason of the inspection held as authorized herein, or
certificate of inspection issued as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 116.05) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 116.06 FEES FOR INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATE.
   The fees for inspection and certificate provided herein shall be:
Service Fee
Service                                Fee
Branch circuit wiring, 4 circuits      Minimum of $3
                                       Plus $0.50 for each circuit over 4 (each
                                      500 square feet of floor space shall
                                       constitute a circuit)
Fixture work, first 30 sockets or less Minimum of $3
                                      Plus $0.10 for each additional socket
                                       over 30
(Where rough wiring and fixtures can be inspected on one trip, a reduction of
25% of total fee will be made; motors and generators including feeders.)
First machine                          Minimum $2
                                      Plus $0.50 for each additional machine
Switch boards, for each panel board    Minimum $2
 
(Prior Code, § 116.06) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 116.07 LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person or persons desirous of doing electrical work in the city
limits must make application for an electrical license.
   (B)   Any firm desirous of employing any employee to do electrical wiring in
the city shall have one or more employees from the firm make an application for
an electrical supervisors license.
(Prior Code, § 116.07) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 116.08 LICENSE FEE.
   All person or persons desirous of doing electrical work in the city limits
who does not have an established business in the city for the present and
previous year shall pay a license fee in the amount as set by Council from time
to time.
(Prior Code, § 116.08) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter,
shall upon conviction, be fined not less then $10 nor more than $100 for each
offense. The imposition of one penalty for any violation, or permit it to
continue, and any person, firm or corporation shall be required to correct or
remedy the violation or defects within ten days and each ten days that prohibit
conditions are mentioned shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 116.99) (Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 117: MOTOR VEHICLE RECYCLERS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Duties of motor vehicle recycler
   
117.03   Records received by law enforcement
   
117.04   Transactions with persons convicted of larceny-related offenses
prohibited
   
117.05   Separate violations
 
   
117.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Recyclers, see also §§
112.25 through
112.35
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LEADSOLINE. An existing web-based central reporting system that allows
recyclers to report their transactions to law enforcement with information
required by the Kentucky Revised Statutes and this chapter.
   MOTOR VEHICLE RECYCLER. Any individual or business, or principals, employees
or agents thereof, that purchases motor vehicles for the purpose of crushing
and/or recycling motor vehicles for scrap metal.
(Prior Code, § 117.01) (Ord. 11-03, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 117.02 DUTIES OF MOTOR VEHICLE RECYCLER.
   Under this chapter, each motor vehicle recycler shall be obligated to follow
and comply with the following regulations and requirements:
   (A)   Keep a register that contains:
      (1)   A photocopy of a valid driver’s license or other government-issued
identification card or document which contains the name, photograph and
signature of the seller. If the purchaser has a copy of the seller’s valid
photo identification on file, it shall not be necessary for the purchaser to
make another copy of the identification document for each purchase if the
purchaser references the number on the identification document in the register
at the time of each purchase;
      (2)   The state and license number of the motor vehicle used to transport
the motor vehicle, to the place of purchase, which shall be provided by the
seller of the items;
      (3)   The time and date of the transaction;
      (4)   The year, make, model, license plate number and vehicle
identification number of the motor vehicle purchased by the motor vehicle
recycler; and
      (5)   The amount paid for the motor vehicle and the unit basis of the
purchase, such as by ounce or pound, or the like.
   (B)   Shall hold motor vehicles purchased, in their original form as
presented to the motor vehicle recycler, for a period of three business days,
unless notified, within that three-day period by a peace officer having
reasonable cause to believe that the property may be stolen property, in which
case, the motor vehicle may be seized as evidence by the peace officer or, if
not seized, shall be retained for an additional 30 days unless earlier notified
by a peace officer that the property may be sold. Certain motor vehicles may be
recycled immediately. A motor vehicle may be recycled immediately after
transaction if meeting any one of the following conditions:
      (1)   Motor vehicle is missing an engine or transmission upon entering
the business;
      (2)   Motor vehicle has fire damage to its exterior;
      (3)   Motor vehicle is sold to a motor vehicle recycler with a junk
title. Motor vehicle recyclers shall retain a copy of the junk title with the
transaction record and keep for two years. The registrant on the junk title
shall be the only person who can sell the specific motor vehicle to the motor
vehicle recycler. The motor vehicle recycler shall hold the motor vehicle for
five business days if sold by anyone other than the registrant listed on the
junk title except as provided under division (B)(5) below;
      (4)   Motor vehicles that are sold to the motor vehicle recycler by a
businesses engaged in towing, impound, insurance or any other motor vehicle
recycler where reporting to another law enforcement agency or Leadsonline
registration and notification has already been accomplished;
      (5)   Motor vehicle is determined to be older than ten years old. This
can be done by using the VIN number to ascertain the year of the motor vehicle;
and
      (6)   The motor vehicle is determined to be ten years old or less and the
motor vehicle is being sold by the person whose name appears on the title to
the motor vehicle. A copy of the title and the identification of the person
selling the vehicle will be maintained together.
   (C)   Not purchase any motor vehicle from a person who:
      (1)   Is less than 18 years of age; or
      (2)   Is unable or refuses to provide the identification and information
required in division (A) above.
   (D)   Retain the information required by this section for a period of two
years, after which time, the information may be retained, destroyed in a manner
that protects the identity of the owner of the property and the seller of the
property or transferred to a law enforcement agency specified in division (G)
below;
   (E)   If the purchaser ceases business, transfer all records and information
required by this section to a law enforcement agency specified in division (G)
below;
   (F)   Permit any peace officer to inspect the register, during normal
business hours, and if the peace officer deems it necessary, to locate and
inspect the specific stolen motor vehicle received during business hours;
   (G)   Upon written request of the Sheriff or Chief of Police, as
appropriate, transmit a report containing the information required to be
retained in the register under division (A) above to Leadsonline, web based
central reporting system, within 24 hours of the transaction;
   (H)   If an unintended circumstance prevents transmitting reports to
Leadsonline, motor vehicle recyclers shall submit their reports in person, in
digital format, in writing or by electronic means to the County Sheriff and
Police Department within 24 hours of the transaction; and
   (I)   Comply with a written request pursuant to division (G) above until a
written notice to cease sending the reports required by division (G) above is
received by the purchaser. A request may relate to:
      (1)   All records of purchases;
      (2)   Records of a specific motor vehicle;
      (3)   Records of purchases during a specific period of time; or
      (4)   Records of a specific purchase or purchases.
(Prior Code, § 117.02) (Ord. 11-03, passed 3-10-2014) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.03 RECORDS RECEIVED BY LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   A sheriff or police department receiving records pursuant to this section
shall retain the records for two years, after which time, it may either retain
or destroy the records in a manner that protects the identity of the owner of
the property, the seller of the property and the purchaser of the property.
(Prior Code, § 117.03) (Ord. 11-03, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 117.04 TRANSACTIONS WITH PERSONS CONVICTED OF LARCENY-RELATED OFFENSES
PROHIBITED.
   Motor vehicle recyclers are prohibited from engaging in any transaction for
a period of three years with a person convicted of a crime in any County Court
where their conviction involved the selling of stolen metal or a stolen motor
vehicle to any recycler in the county and the city. Law enforcement shall
supply recyclers with the names and date of conviction of anyone convicted of
such crime.
(Prior Code, § 117.04) (Ord. 11-03, passed 3-10-2014) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.05 SEPARATE VIOLATIONS.
   Each incident which results in a violation of this chapter shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 117.05) (Ord. 11-03, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   The penalties for violation of this chapter shall be as follows: Class A
misdemeanor constituting a fine not to exceed $500 and/or up to one year in
jail.
(Prior Code, § 117.99) (Ord. 11-03, passed 3-10-2014)
CHAPTER 118: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
118.001   Definitions
   
118.002   State law adopted
   
118.003   Scope
   
118.004   Economic hardship; retail drink sales
Office of the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator
   
118.015   Alcoholic Beverage Administrator
   
118.016   Appeals
Licenses
   
118.030   Classification of licenses; fee schedule
   
118.031   Certain special licenses defined
   
118.032   Term of licenses; proration of fees
   
118.033   Form, content of city license
   
118.034   Application fee
   
118.035   Advertisement
   
118.036   Other conditions
   
118.037   Application; renewal
   
118.038   Approval of application
   
118.039   Denial of application
   
118.040   Refund of fees
   
118.041   Regulatory license fee
   
118.042   Change of ownership
   
118.043   Transfer of license
   
118.044   Refusal of license; guidelines for approval of quota licenses
   
118.045   Review of license; books, records, audio and visual recordings, and
reports
   
118.046   Dormancy
   
118.047   Premises selling groceries, gasoline and the like prohibited from
obtaining license
   
118.048   Treating prohibited; exceptions; sampling
Sale of Alcoholic Beverages
   
118.060   Hours of sale
   
118.061   Compliance with regulations and prohibitions
   
118.062   Maintenance of state license
   
118.063   Display of required licenses and certain signs
Conditions, Prohibitions and Restrictions
   
118.075   Criminal conduct on premises prohibited
   
118.076   Conducting business with minor
   
118.077   Gambling
   
118.078   Radio receiving apparatus
   
118.079   Security
   
118.080   Prizes prohibited
   
118.081   Drunkenness
   
118.082   Underage sales
   
118.083   Legal transactions for wholesalers, distributors and retailers
   
118.084   Employment restrictions
   
118.085   Happy hour restrictions
   
118.086   Lavatory facilities required
   
118.087   Nudity and adult entertainment activities prohibited
   
118.088   Drive-through outlets permitted
   
118.089   Retail premises not to be disorderly per KRS 244.120
   
118.090   Consumption on licensed package premises prohibited
   
118.091   Exceptions
   
118.092   Habitual congregating
Mandatory Responsible Beverage Service Training
   
118.105   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
Signs and Advertising
   
118.120   Signs and advertising
Administration and Enforcement
   
118.135   Alcoholic beverage control vested in the Police Chief
   
118.136   Right of entry; search and seizure
   
118.137   Suspension or revocation of license
 
   
118.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 118.001 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of the words used throughout this chapter, unless the
context requires otherwise, shall have the same meaning as those set out in the
Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control Law (KRS Chapters 241 through 244) of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and all amendments and supplements thereto. For the
purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board established pursuant to
KRS 241.030.
   CATERER (MALT BEVERAGE, DISTILLED SPIRITS AND WINE). A professional food
service business preparing food in a licensed and inspected commissary,
transporting food and alcoholic beverages (malt beverage, distilled spirits and
wine) to the caterer’s designated and inspected banquet hall or to a location
selected by the customer, and serving the food and alcoholic beverages to the
customer’s guests.
   CITY LICENSE. A license established and authorized pursuant to the terms
hereof and issued by the city.
   CITY LICENSEE. A person who has been issued a city license pursuant to the
terms hereof by the city, including the officers and agents of the licensee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, partnership, joint venture or
unincorporated association of persons or any combination thereof, and the
shareholders, officers, agents and servants, and employees thereof.
   PREMISES. The premises described in the city license issued pursuant to the
terms hereof and the application therefor.
   RETAIL LIQUOR DRINK SAMPLING LICENSE and RETAIL LIQUOR PACKAGE SAMPLING
LICENSE. A license that allows customers to sample distilled spirits and/or
wine at a retail liquor drink or a retail liquor package establishment that
have met certain requirements.
   SOUVENIR PACKAGE SUNDAY SALES. Pursuant to state law, a souvenir retail
liquor license for Sunday sales may be issued to any licensed state distiller
that has a gift shop or other retail outlet on its premises, if the distillery
is located in wet territory and has a souvenir retail package license.
   SPECIAL PRIVATE CLUB LICENSE (NQ-3 RETAIL DRINK LICENSE). A license issued
to any nonprofit social, fraternal, military or political organization club, or
entity which for more than two years prior to the date of application has
maintained and operated a club room or rooms from which the general public is
excluded.
   SPECIAL TEMPORARY LICENSE. A license that may be issued to any regularly
organized fair, exposition, racing association or other party, when a necessity
exists that shall authorize the licensee to exercise the privileges of a
distilled spirits, wine and malt beverage quota retail drink license at
designated premises for a specified and limited time, not to exceed 30 days.
All restrictions and prohibitions apply.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STATE LICENSE. A license authorized by KRS 243.030 to 243.675.
   TRAFFIC IN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Any action, business or transaction in
regard to the production, storage, transportation, distribution, sale, delivery
and transfer of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 118.01) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.002 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of KRS Chapters 241 through 244 and all amendments thereto,
relating to the manufacture, sale, transportation, possession or other
disposition of spirituous, vinous or intoxicating malt liquor for medicinal,
sacramental, scientific or mechanical purposes are adopted as a portion of this
chapter as far as applicable, except as otherwise lawfully provided by city
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 118.02) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.003 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall be construed to apply to the manufacture and traffic in
both malt beverages and distilled spirits and wine where the context permits
such application. Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the licensee,
or the owner, proprietor, employee, agent or person in charge of any licensed
premises where alcoholic beverages are sold from the restrictions, requirements
and penalties of any other ordinance or ordinances of the city or of any
statutes of the state relating to violations pertaining to alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 118.03) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.004 ECONOMIC HARDSHIP; RETAIL DRINK SALES.
   Pursuant to state law, the City Council has determined that an economic
hardship exists with the city and that the sale of alcoholic beverages by the
drink could aid economic growth. Accordingly, the City Council has the
authority to provide for the issuance of any licenses permitted by KRS 243.070,
or the issuance of any other reasonable administrative regulations as may be
necessary for the enforcement or regulation of alcoholic beverages within the
city limits.
(Prior Code, § 118.04) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
OFFICE OF THE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE ADMINISTRATOR
§ 118.015 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 241.160, there is hereby created the Office of
Alcoholic Beverage Administrator.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint someone to fill the position of Alcoholic
Beverage Administrator pursuant to KRS 241.170.
   (C)   The Alcoholic Beverage Administrator may, from time to time, appoint
such additional personnel as is necessary to assist him or her in the
administration of the alcoholic beverages laws and ordinances.
   (D)   The salary for the office of Alcoholic Beverage Administrator, if any,
together with the salaries of any other personnel assisting the Alcoholic
Beverage Administrator, shall be fixed from time to time by the City Council.
   (E)   The functions of the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator shall be the
same with respect to the
city licenses and regulations as the functions of the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board of the commonwealth (hereinafter referred to as ABC Board) with
respect to state licenses and regulations, except that no amendment to these
regulations proposed by the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator may be less
stringent than the statutes relating to alcoholic beverage control, or than
regulations of the ABC Board. No regulation of the Alcoholic Beverage
Administrator shall become effective until the City Council has first
appropriately approved it.
   (F)   No person shall be a Alcoholic Beverage Administrator, an investigator
or an employee of the under the supervision of the Alcoholic Beverage
Administrator, who would be disqualified to be a member of the ABC Board under
KRS 241.100.
   (G)   The Alcoholic Beverage Administrator shall have all authority as
authorized under KRS Chapters 241 through 244. The Alcoholic Beverage
Administrator, and the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator’s investigators, may
inspect any premises where alcoholic beverages are manufactured, sold, stored
or otherwise trafficked in, without first obtaining a search warrant.
   (H)   Should the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator at any time have
reasonable grounds to believe that any applicant, licensee, employee of a
licensee, or any stockholder, agent or employee of a licensed corporation, LLC
or other business organization, has a criminal record, he or she shall have the
authority to require such person to appear in person at the Police Department
for the purpose of having his or her fingerprints taken.
   (I)   The Alcoholic Beverage Administrator before entering upon his or her
duties as such, shall take the oath as prescribed in § 228 of the Constitution
and shall execute a bond with a good corporate surety in the penal sum of not
less than $1,000. The Alcoholic Beverage Administrator may require any employee
under the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator’s supervision to execute a similar
bond in such penal sum as the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator deems necessary.
(Prior Code, § 118.10) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.016 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from the orders of the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator may be
taken to the State ABC Board by filing with the Board within 30 days a
certified copy of the orders of the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator. The Board
shall hear matters at issue as upon an original proceeding. Appeals from orders
of the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator shall be governed by KRS Chapter 13B.
   (B)   When any decision of the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator shall have
been appealed, or when a protest has been lodged against an application for any
license within the city, and the ABC Board shall have made a decision regarding
such appeal or protested application, the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator,
upon receipt of notice of finality of the decision, shall enter such orders and
take such action as required by the final order of the ABC Board. As provided
by law, and as used herein, no order of the ABC Board is final until all
appeals or appeal times shall have been exhausted. A final order of the ABC
Board is the order entered by said Board, unless an appeal is taken from the
Board’s order, in which case the final order is the order entered by the Board
upon direction from the reviewing court of last resort in the final order of
said reviewing court.
(Prior Code, § 118.11) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
LICENSES
§ 118.030 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   For the privilege of causing, permitting and engaging in the actions,
business and transactions authorized thereby in regard to traffic in alcoholic
beverages in the city and pursuant to the authority of KRS 243.070, there is
hereby established a corresponding city license for each of the state licenses
described in the following schedule. The actions, business and transactions
authorized and permitted thereby shall be and are the same as those of the
state licenses to which the city licenses correspond and which are indicated
and described in the sections of state law indicated in the following schedule.
The fees for such city licenses shall be the maximum allowed by law as
indicated in the following schedule.
   (B)   No person shall cause, permit or engage in any of the actions,
business or transactions authorized by such city and state licenses within the
city without both a valid city license and a valid state license.
   (C)   Only those licenses set out in this section shall be issued. The
license fees are subject to the provisions of divisions (C)(15), (C)(16) and
(C)(17) of below.
(1)   Distilled spirit licenses as set forth in KRS 243.030:                   $500
(a)   Distiller’s license, per annum;                                        $3,000
(b)   Rectifier’s license, per annum;                                        $3,000
(c)   Wholesaler’s distilled spirits and wine license, per annum; and        $1,000
(d)   Quota retail package license, per annum
(2)   Quota retail drink license, per annum                                    $1,000
(3)   Special temporary license, per event                                     $166.66
(4)   Nonquota type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine an$2,000
malt beverages), per annum
(5)   Nonquota type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine an$1,000
malt beverages), per annum
(6)   Nonquota type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine an$300
malt beverages), per annum
(7)   Distilled spirits and wine special temporary license, per event          $200
(8)   Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum                           $300
(9)   Extended hours supplemental license, per annum                           $2,000
(10)   Caterer’s license, per annum                                          $800
(11)   Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per annum             $1,000
(12)   Malt beverage licenses as follows:                                      $500
(a)   Brewer’s license, per annum;                                           $500
(b)   Microbrewery license, per annum;                                         $400
(c)   Malt beverage distributor’s license, per annum;                        $200
(d)   Nonquota retail malt beverage package license, per annum;                $200
(e)   Nonquota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license, per annum; and       $100
(f)   Malt beverage brew-on license, per annum
(13)   Limited restaurant license (includes distilled spirits, wine and malt   $1,200
beverages), per annum
(14)   Limited golf course license (includes distilled spirits, wine and malt  $1,200
beverages), per annum
(15)   The fee for the following license types may not be increased by more than
5% above the 2013 fee for the current license or th e former license type listed
beside it during any five-year period. The fees for the licenses described in
this division (C)(15) are still subject to the maximum amounts listed for those
licenses in divisions (C)(1) to (C)(14) above:
(a)   Quota retail package license: retail package liquor licenses;
(b)   Quota retail drink license: retail drink license;
(c)   Nonquota type 1 retail drink license: convention center or convention hot 
complex license;
(d)   Nonquota type 2 retail drink license: restaurant drink licenses;
(e)   Nonquota retail malt beverage package license: retail malt beverage
license;
(f)   Nonquota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license: retail malt beverage
license;
(g)   Limited restaurant; and
(h)   Limited golf course license.
(16)   The fee for each of the first five supplemental bar licenses shall be the
same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no charge for each   
supplemental license in excess of 5 to the same licensee at the same premises.
(17)   The holder of a nonquota retail malt beverage package license may obtain 
Nonquota type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of $50.
 
(Prior Code, § 118.20) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.031 CERTAIN SPECIAL LICENSES DEFINED.
   (A)   Special temporary licenses. A special temporary license may be issued
only as set out in KRS 243.260. This license shall authorize the licensee to
exercise the privileges of a quota retail drink license and an NQ4 retail malt
beverage licensee at designates premises for a specified and limited time, not
to exceed 30 days, and shall expire when the qualifying event ends. All
restrictions and prohibitions applying to a distilled spirits and wine quota
retail drink licensee or an NQ4 retail malt beverage drink license shall apply
also to a special temporary licensee.
   (B)   A nonprofit organization holding an NQ4 retail malt beverage drink
license may be issued a special temporary license to sell distilled spirits and
wine by the drink on the licensed premises for a specified and limited time,
not to exceed ten days. The temporary license may be issued in conjunction with
any public or private event, including, but not limited to, weddings,
receptions, reunions or similar occasions.
   (C)   A special license is required for Sunday sales. No licensee shall
offer alcoholic beverages for sale at any time between 12:00 midnight on Sunday
and 6:00 a.m. on Monday unless the licensee has obtained a special license for
Sunday sales.
   (D)   A limited restaurant license may be granted to any qualifying
restaurant that permits distilled spirits, wine and beer sales by the drink for
consumption on the premises of the qualifying restaurant. Said restaurants must
have seating capacity of at least 50 persons and derive at least 70% of their
gross receipts from the sale of food if the alcoholic beverage is purchased in
conjunction with the sale of food. A limited restaurant license does not permit
package sales for consumption off the premises. If a restaurant wishes to have
a bar or sell alcohol without a corresponding purchase of food, it must have
seating capacity of at least 100 persons and derive at least 70% of its gross
receipts from the sale of food.
(Prior Code, § 118.21) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.032 TERM OF LICENSES; PRORATION OF FEES.
   (A)   All city licenses, except special temporary licenses, shall be valid
for a period of no more than one year and shall begin and end on the dates
specified by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control administrative
regulations for the city. When any person applies for a new license authorized
by KRS Chapters 241 through 244 and §
118.034, he or she shall be charged, if the license is issued, the full fee for
the respective license if six months or more remain before the license is due
to be renewed and one-half the fee if less than six months remain before the
license is due to be renewed. No abatement of license fees shall be permitted
to any person who held a license of the same kind for the same premises in the
preceding license period and who was actually doing business under the license
during the last month of a preceding license period.
   (B)   The renewal by the city of the certificate or permit of any alcoholic
beverage license shall not be construed to waive or condone any violation that
occurred prior to the renewal and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings
against the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 118.22) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.033 FORM, CONTENT OF CITY LICENSE.
   (A)   The city licenses authorized and established hereby shall each be
evidenced by a document, the form and content of which shall be prescribed by
regulation of the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator.
   (B)   However, the documents must be of the same color and designation as
those of the state licenses to which the city licenses correspond and must:
      (1)   Comply with all of the provisions for state licenses required by
KRS 243.440; and
      (2)   Contain a declaration that the license authorizes the search of the
licensed premises by any peace officer at any time for any purpose; the removal
therefrom of any evidence of any crime or other violation of any law; and the
use thereof in any trial or hearing in regard thereto.
(Prior Code, § 118.23) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.034 APPLICATION FEE.
   A non-refundable application fee of $50 shall be paid with the filing of the
application for a city license. If the license is granted, the application fee
shall be credited against the initial license fee.
(Prior Code, § 118.24) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.035 ADVERTISEMENT.
   (A)   Before an application for a license shall be considered, the applicant
must publish a notice of its intent to apply for an alcoholic beverage license
in a newspaper meeting the requirements of KRS Chapter 424. The advertisement
shall state the name and address of the applicant. It shall also state the
members of the partnership, if the applicant is a partnership and membership of
the LLC if the applicant is an LLC, as well as the name of the business and its
address. If the applicant is a corporation, the advertisement shall state the
names and addresses of the principal officers and directors of the corporation,
as well as the name and address of the corporation itself. All advertisements
shall state the location of the premises for which the license is sought, and
the type of license for which application is made.
   (B)   The applicant shall attach to the application a newspaper clipping of
the advertisement and proof of the publication as provided in KRS 424.170.
(Prior Code, § 118.25) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.036 OTHER CONDITIONS.
   In addition to any other inquiries, conditions or considerations required or
permitted by law:
   (A)   The Alcoholic Beverage Administrator shall not grant any alcoholic
beverage license or approve a renewal of a license until the applicant and his
or her place of business shall have been approved by the City Building
Inspector, and any and all other inspections required by the Kentucky Building
Code;
   (B)   All applicants shall voluntarily submit to a criminal background check
and shall sign a waiver allowing the release of this information to the
Alcoholic Beverage Administrator;
   (C)   No license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages shall be granted or
renewed to any person who is delinquent in the payment of any taxes or fees due
the city at the time of the license, nor shall any license be granted or
renewed to sell upon any property owned and occupied by the licensee upon which
there are any delinquent taxes or fees due the city. Further, if a licensee
becomes delinquent in the payment of any taxes or any fees due the city at any
time during the license period, the license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages
shall be subject to revocation or suspension; and
   (D)   No person, whether an applicant for or shall in any manner attempt to
bribe, threaten, unduly influence or intimidate the Alcoholic Beverage
Administrator, or any member of his or her staff, or any state Alcoholic
Beverage Administrator or staff, in any matter in which an application or
proposed application for or procedure for revocation or suspension is pending
before such officer. This division (D) is not intended to stifle expressions of
opinion; however, it is intended to make clear that the Alcoholic Beverage
Administrators are public officials charged with the administration and
enforcement of the law, both local and state. Any person applying for a
license, or contesting the revocation or suspension of a license, who engages
in attempted bribes, threats, attempted undue influence or intimidation of a
City or State Alcoholic Beverage Administrator or staff shall be disqualified
from receiving or retaining a license, in addition to other penalties as
provided by law. The procedures for appeals shall apply to disqualifications,
revocations or suspensions under this section. This section shall not be
interpreted to prohibit monetary settlements in lieu of revocation or
suspension of license after a final order or revocation or suspension, where
the chapter and applicable statutes allow for such payments in settlement.
(Prior Code, § 118.26) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.037 APPLICATION; RENEWAL.
   Subject to the limitations and restrictions described herein, city licenses
shall be originally issued by the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator and renewed
by him or her upon the expiration thereof upon receipt of the following
documents and fees more than 30 days prior to the effective date of an original
license and more than 15 days prior to the expiration date of any license to be
renewed:
   (A)   A written application therefore with the truth of the information,
statements and representations therein attested by the signature and the oath
or affirmation of the applicant. The form and content of such application shall
be prescribed by regulation of the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator; however,
provision for the following information, statements and representations shall
and must be included therein:
      (1)   All information required by KRS 243.390 to be contained in the
application for state licenses;
      (2)   A consent by the applicant to the search of the licensed premises
by any peace officer at any time for any purpose, the removal therefrom of any
evidence of any crime or other violation of any law; and the use thereof in any
trial or hearing in regard thereto; and
      (3)   The names and addresses of the applicant and all shareholders.
   (B)   The approval of the applicant, the application and the premises
described therein by the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator;
   (C)   Documentary evidence of a valid state license which corresponds to the
city license for which the application is being made; and
   (D)   The applicable fee, paid in cash or by certified or cashier’s check,
for the city license which is the subject of the application. No licensee shall
enter into or begin operating any business for which a license is required
until the license fee has been paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 118.27) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.038 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   Within 30 days of the date of the application for an original city license
and 15 days of the date of an application for renewal of a city license, the
Alcoholic Beverage Administrator shall, by mail or personal delivery thereof,
notify the applicant, in writing, of either the approval thereof or the
disapproval thereof and a hearing in regard thereto.
(Prior Code, § 118.28) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.039 DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   As is similarly set forth in KRS 243.450, the Alcoholic Beverage
Administrator shall not approve any application for a city license if:
   (A)   The applicant, application or premises described therein do not fully
comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws in regard to alcoholic
beverages;
   (B)   The applicant and/or any shareholder, officer, agent, servant or
employee thereof has caused, permitted or engaged in any act for which the
revocation of a state or city license is authorized;
   (C)   The applicant and/or any shareholder, officer, agent, servant or
employee thereof had a state license or city license which was revoked within
two years of the date of the application, or the premises described therein
where the premises or any portion thereof described in a state license or city
license revoked during such time;
   (D)   Any statement or representation in the application is false; or
   (E)   In the exercise of sound discretion, the Alcoholic Beverage
Administrator determines any cause or reason for refusing to approve an
application reasonably related to the purpose and objective of this chapter and
the state laws and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
Among those factors that the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator shall consider in
the exercise of his or her discretion are: public sentiment in the area; number
of license outlets in the area; potential for future growth; type of area
involved; type of transportation involved; and financial potential of the area.
(Prior Code, § 118.29) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.040 REFUND OF FEES.
   Should any licensee under this chapter be prohibited from conducting the
licensed business for the full period covered by the license because of any
changes that may hereafter be made in the laws of the Commonwealth with
reference to alcoholic beverages or other cause outside licensee’s control,
then the city shall refund to licensee the proportionate part of the license
fee for the period during which licensee is prevented from carrying on said
business if the licensee provides sufficient proof to the Alcoholic Beverage
Administrator that such period of inactivity was not the fault of the licensee
or the result of a revocation, suspension or other wrongdoing by licensee, or
an agent or employee of the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 118.30) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.041 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075, there is hereby imposed a regulatory license
fee on the gross receipts of sale of alcoholic beverages of each license issued
by the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator. As of the time of adoption of this
chapter, the regulatory license fee shall be 5% of gross sales of all alcoholic
beverages sold by the drink. In the case of retail sales of package distilled
spirits and wine, the regulatory license fee shall be 5% of gross sales. The
regulatory license fee shall be 5% on gross retail sales of package malt.
Thereafter, the City Council shall adopt at the budget adoption for each
subsequent fiscal year, such annual rate for the regulatory license fee as
shall be reasonably estimated to ensure full reimbursement to the city for the
cost of any additional policing, regulatory or administrative expense related
to the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city. Should the city fail to address
the regulatory license fee in any budget, then the regulatory license fee shall
remain at the level at which it was last fixed until such time as the City
Council shall adjust the fee.
   (B)   Payment of such regulatory fee shall be remitted to the Alcoholic
Beverage Administrator, and shall be held in a separate account maintained for
the purpose of fully reimbursing the for the estimated cost of any additional
policing, regulatory or administrative expense related to the sale of alcoholic
beverages in the city. The regulatory license fee shall be in addition to any
other taxes, fees or licenses permitted by law, except that a credit against a
regulatory license fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount equal to any
license fee imposed by the city pursuant to KRS 243.070. Payment of the
regulatory license fee shall accompany the tax return approved for such use by
the City Council. The return and payment are due no later than by the end of
the month immediately following each calendar quarter.
   (C)   Failure to pay such quarterly remittance within ten days of the due
date constitutes a violation and subjects licensee to suspension or revocation.
   (D)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay quarterly remittance by
the due date is 5% of the tax
for each 90 days or fraction thereof. The total late filing penalty shall not
exceed 25% of the tax; provided, however, that in no case shall the penalty be
less than $10.
   (E)   Interest at the rate of 8% per annum will apply to any late payments.
(Prior Code, § 118.31) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.042 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   If after a license to individuals or to a sole proprietor has been
issued, there is change in any fact required to be set forth in the
application, a verified amendment in writing giving notice of the change shall
be filed with the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator within ten days of the
change.
   (B)   Since a number of licenses issued by the city are in the name of
corporations or other business organizations, it is necessary that ownership
changes in such organizations be reported to the Alcoholic Beverage
Administrator. The Alcoholic Beverage Administrator can, therefore, investigate
the person to whom the ownership or management is transferred in order to
ascertain whether that person is precluded by statute from holding an interest
in an alcoholic beverage license.
      (1)   As used with regard to a partnership, corporation, LLC or other
business organization herein, the word “change” is construed to include any
change in managers, partners or LLC members, directors, or officers of the
corporation, or change in ownership or stock whereby any person secures 10% of
the outstanding ownership or stock transfer of more than 10% of the total
ownership or stock shall require a new license.
      (2)   The following information will be required concerning any new
manager, partner or LLC member, new director, officer, or person securing any
interest in alcoholic beverage license:
         (a)   Name and address;
         (b)   Nature of interest;
         (c)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
         (d)   Date of birth;
         (e)   Date residence was established in the state or if a resident of
the state. If a city resident, indicate when residence was established;
         (f)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license
or in any LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding
a license under this chapter;
         (g)   Extent of stock or company ownership; and
         (h)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or in
any LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a
license in any other state or province.
      (3)   This information shall be filed with the Alcoholic Beverage
Administrator as a verified amendment of the application pursuant to which the
license was granted. Filing shall be made within ten days of any change of
required information.
(Prior Code, § 118.32) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.043 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A city licensee shall not assign or transfer any city license to any other
person or premises unless that person and/or premises complies with all of the
provisions of this chapter; the transfer of the license is approved by the
Alcoholic Beverage Administrator; and the transfer of the state license to
which the city license corresponds is approved by the state. A transfer fee of
$100 shall be paid to the city for the transfer of the city license.
(Prior Code, § 118.33) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.044 REFUSAL OF LICENSE; GUIDELINES FOR APPROVAL OF QUOTA LICENSES.
   (A)   The Alcoholic Beverage Administrator may refuse to issue or renew a
license for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a license and for suspension
or revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for state
licenses according to KRS 243.450, 243.490 and 243.500, as well as violation of
any city ordinance regarding alcohol beverage licensing, sales or the
administration thereof;
      (2)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of license
would be authorized; or
      (3)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his or
her application.
   (B)   In the case of quota licenses, before approving an application, the
Alcoholic Beverage Administrator is hereby directed to consider, in addition to
the factors set out in KRS 243.450, 243.490 and 243.500, and any other factors
the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator determines in his or her discretion to be
reasonable and pertinent to the license application, including the following
criteria:
      (1)   Ownership. The city places great value on business owners who are
invested in the Irvine community;
      (2)   Economic. The city desires businesses which make the most positive
impact on the community, in number of jobs, payroll, property investment and
revenues to the city;
      (3)   Site of business. The city is interested in serving all geographic
areas of the city. Therefore, the city does not wish to cluster all licensed
ABC outlets in one area;
      (4)   Aesthetics. The city is committed to protecting the character and
beauty of our community;
      (5)   Revitalization of downtown. The city wholeheartedly supports the
revitalization of downtown and the revitalization and reuse of existing
buildings;
      (6)   Capital. The city values businesses that demonstrate their ability
to financially support and sustain their viability; and
      (7)   Public support of licensed business in the area. The city intends
that sentiment and safety be considered in deciding upon the approval of retail
liquor sales licenses in any area of the city.
   (C)   An applicant who has been refused a license by the Alcoholic Beverage
Administrator may appeal the refusal to the ABC Board pursuant to KRS 241.200.
(Prior Code, § 118.34) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.045 REVIEW OF LICENSE; BOOKS, RECORDS, AUDIO AND VISUAL RECORDINGS, AND
REPORTS.
   (A)   Applicants to whom a license is issued pursuant to this chapter shall
provide periodic information demonstrating compliance with the conditions
license, such as, but not limited to, the continuing requirement that a minimum
percentage of the applicant’s business income is earned from the sale of food.
This documentation shall be on a schedule to be coordinated with the
applicant’s quarterly regulatory fee filings. The city shall provide the form
schedule to the licensee. The licensee’s acceptance of a license to manufacture
or traffic in alcoholic beverages shall constitute consent to the filing of the
quarterly report. In the case of caterer filing, the quarterly report shall
each catered event by type of event, date and address of the event, and shall
provide a per event breakdown of sales and the ratio of food sales to alcohol
sales during the reporting period. This requirement for filing of reports
notwithstanding, the city may at any time come upon the premises of any
licensee and examine the books, audio and visual recordings, and records to
determine whether the licensee is in compliance with all parts of this chapter.
In the event the conditions of any license requirement are not met during any
particular quarter, the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator shall have discretion
in determining whether revocation is appropriate or whether the licensee may be
allowed a reasonable period of time to reach compliance. If a good faith effort
is demonstrated by the licensee, the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator may apply
an accounting period of at least one year in determining whether or not the
food sale percentage requirement has been met.
   (B)   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain upon the
licensed premises adequate books and records of all transactions involved in
the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the ABC Board. Such books and records shall be available at all
reasonable times for inspection by the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator and
such city employees who may assist the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator in his
or her review.
(Prior Code, § 118.35) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.046 DORMANCY.
   (A)   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business
authorized by such a license or else the license will be declared dormant and
become null and void after 90 days. Such is the intent of this section.
Realizing that a licensee, like other business, may have his or her business
interrupted by situations not under his or her control, various exceptions to
the dormancy rule have been included in this section.
   (B)   Any license under which no business is transacted, a period of 90 days
shall be deemed inactive unless the conditions set forth in division (C) below
are proved to the satisfaction of the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator, the
license shall be surrendered to the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator. If the
license is not voluntarily surrendered, it shall be revoked by the Alcoholic
Beverage Administrator.
   (C)   The provisions of division (B) above shall not apply to any licensee
who is unable to continue in business at the premises for which a license is
issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, the acquisition of
the premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental agency under
power of eminent domain, whether acquisition is voluntary or involuntary, or
loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing lease. Prior to the
expiration of 90 days of inactivity, such licensee shall furnish to the
Alcoholic Beverage Administrator a verified statement setting forth the fact
that the licensee is unable to continue in business, for any of the specific
reasons set forth herein, and the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator may grant an
extension of the dormancy with the license continuing to remain in effect
during the license period or until same is transferred to another premises,
notwithstanding the fact that no business is transacted during said period;
provided, however, no such license shall be considered valid unless business is
conducted thereunder within 12 months from the date of notice to the Alcoholic
Beverage Administrator. Such extension may not extend beyond the renewal date
but may be for such times as the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator deems
appropriate in exercise of his or her sound discretion.
(Prior Code, § 118.36) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.047 PREMISES SELLING GROCERIES, GASOLINE AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED FROM
OBTAINING LICENSE.
   (A)   As prohibited in KRS 243.088, 243.230 and 243.280, no city license
shall be issued to sell malt beverages at retail within or upon any premises
from which gasoline and lubricating oil are sold for from which the servicing
and repair of motor vehicles is conducted unless there is continuously
maintained an inventory on the premises for sale at retail of not less than
$5,000 of food, groceries and related products valued at cost.
   (B)   No city license shall be issued to sell distilled spirits or wine at
retail by the drink package from any premises used as or in connection with the
operation of any business in which a substantial part of the commercial
transaction consists of selling at retail staple groceries, or gasoline or
lubricating oil.
(Prior Code, § 118.37) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.048 TREATING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS; SAMPLING.
   (A)   No retail licensee shall give away any alcoholic beverage in any
quantity or deliver it in any quantity for less than a full monetary
consideration, except as provided by division (B) below.
   (B)   A retailer licensed to sell distilled spirits and wine or a retailer
licensed to sell packaged distilled spirits and wine may, after acquiring a
license, allow customers to sample distilled spirits and wine under the
following conditions:
      (1)   Sampling shall be permitted only on licensed premises and during
regular business hours;
      (2)   A licensee shall not charge for the samples provided to customers;
      (3)   Sample sizes shall not exceed:
         (a)   One ounce for wine; and
         (b)   One-half ounce for distilled spirits; and
      (4)   A licensee shall limit a customer to:
         (a)   Two distilled spirits samples per day; and
         (b)   Six wine samples per day.
   (C)   Retailers licensed shall:
      (1)   Notify the office of the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator at City
Hall at least seven days in advance of conducting a sampling event; and
      (2)   Limit a sampling event to a period not to exceed four consecutive
hours between 12:00 noon and 8:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 118.38) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 118.060 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below and a license holder under §
118.030, no premises for which there has been granted a license for the sale of
distilled spirits or wine at retail shall be permitted to remain open for any
purpose between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. However, if a licensee provides a
separate department within his or her licensed premises capable of being locked
and closed off, within which is kept all stocks of distilled spirits and wine,
and all fixtures and apparatus connected with his or her business as a
licensee, and the department is kept locked during the times mentioned above,
he or she shall be deemed to have complied with this section.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) below, no brewer or distributor
shall deliver any malt beverages on Sunday or between the hours of 12:00 a.m.
and 6:00 a.m. on any other day of the week. No retailer shall sell, give away
or deliver any malt beverages between 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (C)   In all places wherein spirituous, vinous or intoxicating liquors or
malt beverages are sold by the drink for consumption on the premises in the
city, all customers must vacate the premises by 1:30 a.m.
   (D)   Facilities receiving a minimum of 50% of its income from the sale of
food and meeting the requirements of state law shall be eligible to receive a
Sunday retail drink license. The hours of operation for a facility holding a
Sunday NQ-2 retail drink license shall be the hours of 1:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m.
on Sundays. This division (D) does not exempt retailers from observing all
other conditions and requirements under any other ordinance or laws of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky. A premise which has been granted a souvenir package
Sunday sale license shall be eligible to operate between the hours of 12:00
p.m. to 12:00 a.m. on Sunday. Convenience stores, grocery stores and packaged
liquor stores which have been granted a NQ-4 retail malt beverage package
license and/or a distilled spirits and wine retail package license shall be
eligible to operate between the hours of 1:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. on Sunday.
   (E)   Private clubs which meet the requirements below shall be eligible to
receive a Sunday retail drink license. The hours of operation for a facility
holding a Sunday retail drink license shall be the hours of 1:00 p.m. to 12:00
a.m. on Sundays. This division (E) does not exempt retailers from observing all
other conditions and requirements under any other ordinance or laws of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky. Private clubs are those which have been granted all
appropriate licenses for the sale of distilled spirits, wine and malt beverages
which:
      (1)   Having dining facilities with a minimum seating capacity of 100
people at tables;
      (2)   Are nonprofit, eleemosynary organizations with a membership of at
least 200; and
      (3)   Have been in existence for a period of at least two years.
   (F)   Per KRS 244.290, in years where December 31, (New Year’s Eve) falls on
a Sunday, the hours of operation, on December 31, for any facility holding a
valid distilled spirits and wine retail drink license, or a malt beverage
retail drink license per §
118.030, shall be from 1:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., Monday morning, January 1. This
division (F) does not exempt retailers from observing all other conditions and
requirements under any other ordinance or laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 118.40) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 16-02, passed 2-8-
2016) Penalty, see §
118.999
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS. 244.290 and 244.480
§ 118.061 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   At all times during which any person has a valid city license issued
pursuant to the provisions hereof, that person shall fully comply with all of
the rules, regulations, requirements and prohibitions set forth in this
chapter.
   (B)   A city licensee shall comply fully with all of the provisions hereof
and all of the rules and regulations of the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator in
regard thereto; all provisions of the state statutes and the rules and
regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in regard to the
license premises and the actions, business and transactions conducted thereon
subsequent to the issuance of a state license therefor and prior to the
expiration, revocation or suspension thereof which are hereby incorporated
herein and made applicable to all city licenses corresponding thereto, the
premises described therein, and the actions, business and transactions
conducted thereon; and the city licensee shall comply fully therewith.
(Prior Code, § 118.41) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.062 MAINTENANCE OF STATE LICENSE.
   A city licensee shall maintain the state license to which the city license
corresponds and fully comply with all state statutes and the rules and
regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in regard thereto.
(Prior Code, § 118.42) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.063 DISPLAY OF REQUIRED LICENSES AND CERTAIN SIGNS.
   As required by KRS 244.083, a city licensee who has a valid city retail
distilled spirits, wine or malt beverage license shall cause to be displayed in
a conspicuous and prominent place on the licensed
premises each of the following documents so that they may be seen and observed
by all persons entering the licensed premises:
   (A)   A sign or placard at least eight inches by 11 inches in size with the
following message printed on or displayed thereon in 30-point or larger type:
“Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) years are subject to a fine up to
Five Hundred ($500.00) Dollars if they:
a.   Enter license premises to buy or have served or delivered to them any
alcoholic beverages; or
b.   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase any alcoholic beverages; or
c.   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages.”
   (B)   (1)   All valid city licenses issued therefor and the state license to
which they correspond.
      (2)   The failure to so display such licenses shall be prima facie
evidence that no such valid licenses have been issued or exist and all actions,
business and transactions authorized thereby conducted on such premises are
illegal and in violation of the provisions hereof and the state statutes and
regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in regard thereto.
(Prior Code, § 118.43) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 118.075 CRIMINAL CONDUCT ON PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   A city licensee shall not cause, permit or engage in any conduct upon the
licensed premises by either the commission of a prohibited act or the omission
of a required act which is a crime or other violation of any governmental
agency having jurisdiction thereof or any officer or agency thereof.
(Prior Code, § 118.50) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.076 CONDUCTING BUSINESS WITH MINOR.
   As prohibited by KRS 244.080 and 244.085, no person shall cause, permit,
encourage or engage in any of the following actions in the city:
   (A)   The possession or consumption of any alcoholic beverages by any person
under 21 years of age in or upon any licensed premises or public places; and
   (B)   The misrepresentation of the name, address, age or other
identification of any person under 21 years of age for the purpose of obtaining
alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 118.51) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.077 GAMBLING.
   No gambling or game of chance unless otherwise authorized by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be permitted in any form on such licensed
premises. Dice, slot machines or any device of chance is prohibited and shall
not be kept on such premises.
(Prior Code, § 118.52) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.078 RADIO RECEIVING APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee licensed under this chapter to have or
maintain any radio receiving apparatus on such which is intentionally adjusted
so as to receive messages broadcast from any law enforcement agency in the
county as it is now or may hereafter be operated. In addition to other
penalties provided for the violation of this section, the Chief of Police or
the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator, or his or her designated investigator
shall have the authority to confiscate any and all such radio receiving
apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 118.53) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.079 SECURITY.
   The licensee shall be responsible for maintaining security on his or her
premises including providing adequate outside lighting to permit customers to
utilize the parking area and to promote the safety, health and welfare of the
public utilizing the licensed premise. Security standards are further necessary
to discourage unlawful activity in and around the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 118.54) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.080 PRIZES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the licensee under this chapter who sells alcoholic
beverages of any kind to give away or offer to give away anything tangible of
value as a premium or prize, or for any other purpose in direct connection with
the sale of alcoholic beverages nor shall any licensee give away any alcoholic
beverage in any quantity for less than a full monetary consideration.
(Prior Code, § 118.55) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.081 DRUNKENNESS.
   No licensee, agent or employee of the licensee shall allow any person to
become drunk or intoxicated on the premises nor shall any licensee sell alcohol
to any person who is actually or apparently under the influence of alcoholic
beverages, or known to the seller or server to be an habitual drunkard or any
person known to the seller or server to have been convicted of drunkenness as
many as three times within the most recent 12-month period. No licensee shall
permit any person who is actually or apparently under the influence of
alcoholic beverages to remain on the licensed premises. As used herein, whether
a person is actually or apparently under the influence of alcoholic beverages
shall be determined by the licensee or server with specific reference to the
principles and guidelines established in mandatory alcohol server training as
to the signs of alcohol intoxication.
(Prior Code, § 118.56) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.082 UNDERAGE SALES.
   The licensee shall not sell or dispense alcoholic beverages to any person
who is under 21 years of age. The licensee shall check all identification cards
to ascertain that every person attempting to purchase or consume alcoholic
beverages is at least 21 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 118.57) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.083 LEGAL TRANSACTIONS FOR WHOLESALERS, DISTRIBUTERS AND RETAILERS.
   No wholesaler or distributor shall sell any alcoholic beverages to any
person in the city for any consideration except under the usual credit or cash
terms of the wholesaler or distributor at or before the time of delivery. Nor
shall any retail licensee sell to a purchaser for any consideration except for
cash at time of purchase.
(Prior Code, § 118.58) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.084 EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   No licensee shall knowingly employ in connection with his or her business
any person who:
   (A)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two years;
   (B)   Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of intoxicating liquors within the last two
years;
   (C)   Is under the age of 20 years who will be serving alcoholic beverages
or who will be having any contact whatsoever with the sale of alcohol as
defined under state statute; or
   (D)   Within two years prior to the date of his or her employment, has had
any city license under this chapter revoked for cause.
(Prior Code, § 118.59) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.085 HAPPY HOUR RESTRICTIONS.
   Licensees shall not offer reduced drink specials (e.g., two-for-one, happy
hours) after the hour of 11:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 118.60) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.086 LAVATORY FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   All retail beer and retail drink licenses shall be required to provide
indoor or outdoor lavatory facilities for their customers where such beverages
are consumed on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 118.61) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.087 NUDITY AND ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall offer or permit nudity, adult entertainment activities,
including nude or nearly nude dancing, adult motion picture, television, slide
or stage shows, cabarets, or sexual entertainment centers on any licensed
premise. No licensee shall permit explicit sexual activity, whether actual or
simulated,
upon any licensed premises. No licensee shall sponsor or permit wet t-shirt or
wet clothing contests, lingerie fashion shows, mud wrestling, Jell-O wrestling
or similar activities, nor shall a licensee allow dancing with touching for
compensation (including, but not limited to, wages, tips or gratuities), or any
other service, display or contest requiring physical contact between patrons
and/or patrons and employees on any licensed premises. No licensee shall
sponsor, offer or permit drinking contests, all-you-can-drink specials or free
drinks on any licensed premises in the city.
(Prior Code, § 118.62) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.088 DRIVE-THROUGH OUTLETS PERMITTED.
   A licensee is permitted to operate a vehicle drive-through outlet for the
sale of alcoholic beverages provided the same complies with all building
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 118.63) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.089 RETAIL PREMISES NOT TO BE DISORDERLY PER KRS 244.120.
   (A)   A retail licensee, a patron or the licensee’s agents, servants or
employees shall not cause, suffer or permit the licensed premises to be
disorderly.
   (B)   Acts which constitute disorderly premises consist of causing,
suffering or permitting patrons, the licensee or the licensee’s servants,
agents or employees to cause public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, or
create a risk through:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting or in violent, tumultuous or threatening
behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise;
      (3)   Refusing to obey an official order to disperse issued to maintain
public safety in dangerous proximity to a fire, hazard or other emergency;
      (4)   Creating a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
that serves no legitimate purpose;
      (5)   Creating a public nuisance which is further defined by KRS 241.010
(50);
      (6)   Engaging in criminal activity that would constitute a capital
offense, felony or misdemeanor; or
      (7)   Failing to maintain the minimum health, safety or sanitary
standards established by the state or local government, or state administrative
regulations, for the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 118.64) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.090 CONSUMPTION ON LICENSED PACKAGE PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   No licensee of a package store, whether trafficking in distilled spirits,
wine or malt beverages, shall permit consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
premises unless said person or entity shall also have a drink license
conferring the privilege of consumption on the premises or shall have a retail
malt beverage license, which permits on-premises consumption. Any licensee who
intends to permit on-premises consumption shall, prior to permitting on-
premises consumption, notify the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator in writing of
this decision. A licensee who does not permit on-premises consumption shall
post a prominent notice on the premises stating that consumption of alcoholic
beverages on-premises is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 118.65) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.091 EXCEPTIONS.
   This restriction of on-premises consumption shall not for microbreweries and
wineries under the provisions of KRS Chapter 243, or where permitted for a
retail distilled spirits and wine licensee under the provisions of KRS 244.050,
or beer tastings.
(Prior Code, § 118.66) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.092 HABITUAL CONGREGATING.
   (A)   Licensed premises. No person or entity operating package liquor store,
whether trafficking in distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages, including
retail package beer licensees, shall knowingly allow or permit habitual
congregating of persons on the unenclosed portion of the licensed premises so
as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   Vacant property. No person or entity being the owner or otherwise in
possession or control of any vacant property shall knowingly allow or permit
habitual congregating of persons on the unenclosed portion of such property so
as to constitute a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 118.67) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING
§ 118.105 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   All persons employed in the selling and serving of alcoholic beverages
shall complete a server course provided by the Kentucky Department of Alcoholic
Beverage Control.
   (B)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above
shall complete that training within 30 days of the date on which the person
first becomes to the requirement. When a new business is licensed to serve
alcoholic beverages, all employees must be trained to the opening of the
business.
   (C)   Each licensee shall be responsible for compliance with the training
requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the Alcoholic Beverage
Administrator a record or file on each employee that shall contain the
pertinent training information. Each premises licensed hereunder must at all
times when alcoholic beverages are being served have at least one person
currently certified in responsible beverage service training on duty.
   (D)   All persons completing the training required by this section shall be
re-certified in a responsible beverage server training course provided by the
Kentucky Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control not less than once every
three years thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 118.70) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
SIGNS AND ADVERTISING
§ 118.120 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   (A)   No flashing lights shall be used to illuminate the exterior of any
premises licensed under this chapter.
   (B)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with KRS 244.130 and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (C)   No licensee shall publish or display advertising that is false or
misleading, nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that implies
that consumption of alcoholic beverages is fashionable or the accepted course
of behavior, or advertising that contains any statement, picture or
illustration implying that the consumption of alcoholic beverages enhances
athletic prowess, whether or not any known athlete is depicted or referred to,
nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that encourages
intoxication by referring to the intoxicating effects of alcohol (or the use of
terms such as “high test”, “high proof” or “extra strong”) or depicting
activities that tend to encourage excessive consumption.
(Prior Code, § 118.80) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 118.135 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL VESTED IN THE CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The powers of alcohol beverage control shall be vested in the Chief of
Police pursuant to KRS 241.160.
(Prior Code, § 118.90) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.136 RIGHT OF ENTRY; SEARCH AND SEIZURE.
   A city licensee shall permit the entry and search of the licensed premises
by any peace officer at any time for any purpose, and the seizure and removal
therefrom of any evidence of any crime or other violation of law and the use
thereof in any trial or hearing in regard thereto.
(Prior Code, § 118.91) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.137 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the procedure set forth in KRS 243.480 through 243.590,
city licenses may be either revoked or suspended by the Alcoholic Beverage
Administrator upon the occurrence of:
      (1)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or any other
alcoholic beverage control ordinance of the city;
      (2)   Any violation of any provision of state law in regard to alcoholic
beverages or the rules and regulations of the State Alcoholic Control Board in
regard thereto;
      (3)   Any other cause, reason or circumstance for which a state license
may be revoked or suspended by the Board;
      (4)   Any reason for which the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator would
have been required to refuse a license if the facts had been known;
      (5)   Conviction of the licensee or his or her agent or employee for
selling any illegal beverages on the premises licensed;
      (6)   Making any false, material statements in an application for a
license;
      (7)   If within a period of two consecutive years, any licensee or any
clerk, servant, agent or employee of the licensee shall have been convicted of
two terms and provisions of KRS Chapters 241 through 244 or any act heretofore
or hereafter in effect relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and
transportation of alcoholic beverages or if within such period, any licensee or
any clerk, servant, agent or employee of the license shall have twice been
convicted of a misdemeanor directly or indirectly attributable to the use of
alcoholic beverages, or of one such felony and one such misdemeanor;
      (8)   Willful and deliberate failure or default of a licensee to pay an
excise tax or any part thereof, or any imposed by or under the provisions of
any statutes, this or acts of Congress relative to taxation, or for a violation
rules or regulations of the Department of Revenue made in pursuance thereof;
and
      (9)   Setting up, conducting, operating or keeping, on the licensed
premises, any gambling game, device, machine or contrivance, or lottery or gift
enterprise, or handbook or facility for betting or transmitting bets on horse
races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept or engaged in, on
the licensed premises, any such game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery,
gift enterprise, handbook or facility.
   (B)   However, city licenses must be revoked by the Alcoholic Beverage
Administrator upon
the occurrence of any cause or circumstance which requires revocation of state
licenses pursuant to KRS 243.500 or the revocation of a state license to which
a city license corresponds. Further, with the approval of the Alcoholic
Beverage Administrator, a license may, as an alternative and in lieu of part of
all of the days of any suspension period, pay the following sums to the city as
set forth in KRS 243.480.
Type of Licensee Fee (per day)
Type of Licensee                                     Fee (per day)
All remaining licensees                              $50
Distillers, rectifiers/vintners/brewers and blenders $1,000
Retail beer                                          $50
Retail drink liquor                                  $50
Retail package liquor                                $50
Wholesale beer                                       $400
Wholesale liquor                                     $400
 
   (C)   The procedure for the revocation or suspension of a city license shall
consist of a written notice signed by the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator and
mailed to the licensee at the address of the licensed premises by certified
mail, describing the cause, circumstance or occurrence and the time and date
thereof for which the city license may be revoked and indicating the time and
place of a hearing in regard thereto at least five days thereafter at which the
licensee and the representatives thereof shall be heard thereon. The hearing
thereon shall be conducted by the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator according to
the procedure prescribed by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board for
hearings by the Board as supplemented by the regulations of the Alcoholic
Beverage Administrator. The Alcoholic Beverage Administrator shall control and
make all decisions in regard to the introduction of evidence and shall hear all
arguments in regard thereto. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Alcoholic
Beverage Administrator shall issue a written decision in regard thereto and
mail a certified copy thereof to the licensee at the address of the license
premises by certified or registered mail.
(Prior Code, § 118.92) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 118.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be sentenced to pay a fine for each offense or violation
of not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates the distillers license fee provision shall,
upon conviction and in accordance with KRS 243.990(2), be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $100 nor more
than $200 or sentenced to imprisonment for no more than six months, or both for
the first offense. For the second offense, the person shall be fined not less
than $200 nor more than $500, or sentenced to imprisonment for no more than six
months, or both. On the third and each subsequent offense, the person shall be
sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $500 nor more than $5,000 or sentenced
to imprisonment for not more than five years, or both.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
118.030 other than as discussed in division (B) above, or any provisions of §§
118.031 through
118.047, 118.060, 118.062 and/or 118.075 through 118.092 shall, upon conviction
and in accordance with KRS 243.990(1) and 244.990(1), be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $200, or be
imprisoned for no more than six months, or both for the first offense. On the
second and each subsequent offense, the person shall be fined not less than
$200 nor more than $500, or be imprisoned for no more than six months, or both.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provisions of §
118.063 shall, upon conviction and in accordance with KRS 244.990(5), be deemed
to have committed a violation and shall be fined not less than $10 nor more
than $100.
(Prior Code, § 118.99) (Ord. 2013-12, passed 12-2-2013)
CHAPTER 119: MOBILE FOOD VEHICLES AND VENDORS
Section
   
119.01   Purpose
   
119.02   Definitions
   
119.03   Mobile Food Vendors Committee
   
119.04   Permit and license required for yearly operation
   
119.05   Application for permit
   
119.06   Application, license and permit fees
   
119.07   General rules and regulations
   
119.08   Prohibition against the transfer of a permit and/or license
   
119.09   Denial, revocation, suspension or permit and/or business license
   
119.10   Appeal to Committee upon denial, revocation or suspension
   
119.11   Service of notices
 
   
119.99   Penalty
§ 119.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The general purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety,
comfort, convenience, prosperity and general welfare of the citizens of the
city by requiring that new and existing mobile food vehicles and vendors
provide patrons and customers with a level of cleanliness, quality and safety.
   (B)   It is also the intent of this chapter to establish reasonable
guidelines and restrictions for mobile food vendors and relationships to
established restaurant businesses and encourage the safe and convenient use of
the city’s rights-of-way and other properties.
(Ord. 22-05, passed 6-13-2022)
§ 119.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD SERVICE WORKER. A person who works for or under the direction of, on
behalf of or as an agent of a food vehicle permittee and/or owner.
   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE. A unit mounted on a or pulled by a self-propelled
vehicle where food for individual portion service is prepared, or dispensed; is
self-contained with its own drinking water tank and wastewater tank including
prepackaged food; is designed to be readily movable; and is moved daily to
return to its commissary.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. Any other MOBILE FOOD VENDOR not defined as a “mobile
food vehicle” including a non-self propelled mobile food unit that are
lightweight enough, designed and intended to be moved by one person. A MOBILE
FOOD VENDOR can only be used to prepare and serve only:
      (1)   Non-potentially hazardous foods such as popcorn, lemonade, soft
drinks, hot dogs or flavored ice; or
      (2)   Food pre-wrapped at the commissary and maintained at the required
temperatures.
(Ord. 22-05, passed 6-13-2022)
§ 119.03 MOBILE FOOD VENDORS COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There shall be within the city a Mobile Food Vendors Committee
consisting of the Mayor, City Clerk/Treasurer and Chief of Police for the
purpose of reviewing applications for mobile food vending permits, approval of
the locations for operation, and establishing rules and regulations as
appropriate.
   (B)   At its sole discretion, the Mobile Food Vendors Committee may limit
the number of designated food zones within the city, to address the health,
safety, comfort, convenience, prosperity and general welfare of the citizens of
the city.
(Ord. 22-05, passed 6-13-2022)
§ 119.04 PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIRED FOR YEARLY OPERATION.
   (A)   All mobile food vehicles and vendors must submit an application for a
permit yearly to the City Clerk/Treasurer. The application will then be
forwarded to the Mobile Food Vendors Committee for review.
   (B)   The grant of a permit may be subject to a monthly rotation of the
designated food zones within the city.
   (C)   Although a permit allows for the operation of the food vehicles
throughout the city limits, the permittee’s activity must occur in an area that
is zoned for that type of an activity.
   (D)   City designated food zones will be available through assignment only.
   (E)   No location within the city shall be approved that is within 500 feet
of any existing restaurant.
   (F)   Applicant shall notify the City Clerk/Treasurer within 15 days of any
changes to application information.
   (G)   Each owner and food service worker shall be required to apply for a
mobile food vehicle or mobile vendor permit that includes a current photo of
owner and/or food service worker.
   (H)   The Mobile Food Vendors Committee shall not approve or reapprove a
location where, in their sole discretion, a mobile food vehicle and/or mobile
food vendor would substantially obstruct a public right-of-way, impair the
movement of pedestrians or vehicles, or pose a hazard to public safety.
Further, the Committee shall not approve or re-approve a location where, in
their sole discretion, there is not adequate parking to serve the perspective
permittee’s customers. It is recognized by the Committee on that parking in the
downtown commercial area is limited and the location of mobile food vehicles or
mobile food vendors competes with valuable parking spaces for which property
owners compete and no permit will be issued for the downtown area except as
approved by the Committee as part of a public festival or event.
   (I)   The Mobile Food Vendors Committee shall not approve any location which
is adjacent to a bus stop, taxi stand or handicap loading zone or directly in
front of a property entryway.
   (J)   The grant of a permit hereunder shall not be deemed to authorize the
conducting of mobile food vehicles and/or mobile vendors without the payment of
the fee for a business license as may be required under the current
occupational license fee code. The permittee must subsequently obtain a
business license from the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (K)   No permit shall be considered for granting in a zoning district that
does not allow restaurants, food service facilities or mobile food vehicles or
vendors.
   (L)   Permits may be revoked immediately upon nonpayment of any occupational
license fee or returns required by the occupations license fee code.
   (M)   The city does not believe that it is in the best interest of the city
or its citizens to allow mobile food vehicles or mobile food vendors to operate
on city streets, roads, highways or rights-of-way, and the Mobile Food Vendors
Committee shall not issue any permits for these areas unless specifically
approved by the city in connection with a public festival or event.
(Ord. 22-05, passed 6-13-2022)
§ 119.05 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   A single permit application shall be accepted and deemed complete on a
first-come, first-served basis. Each application shall indicate on its face, in
addition to other requirements as may be determined, that the following
materials must be submitted:
      (1)   (a)   Each owner of a mobile food vehicle and/or mobile food vendor
shall be required to provide a valid copy of all necessary licenses, permits or
other written proof of compliance with the regulations of the County Health
Department for each mobile food vehicle and/or mobile food vendor.
         (b)   Each owner of a mobile food vehicle or mobile food vendor shall
be required to provide a valid copy of an occupational license or permit issued
by the city.
         (c)   The applicant’s full name, signature, address and whether the
applicant is an individual, firm or corporation, and, if a partnership, the
names of the partners, together with their addresses.
            1.   The applicant must list the names of all food service workers
that will operate the mobile food vehicle(s);
            2.   The address of its commissary; and
            3.   A photograph of the permittee and/or food service worker
applicant, such as, driver’s license, passport or similar.
      (2)   The applicant must specify their desire to operate in a designated
food zone within the public right-of-way of the city or if the operation is on
private property;
      (3)   A photograph or accurate description of the mobile food vehicle and
or pushcart, including the following data: the make, model and type of body;
the number of cylinders; the vehicle identification number or any identifying
number as may be required by the Mobile Food Vendors Committee. (If this
information if not known at the time of permit application, this requirement
can be satisfied as a condition of obtaining a final effective permit.) The
mobile food vehicle must be duly licensed as required by the Commonwealth of
Kentucky and have proof of the required motor vehicle insurance and
registration;
      (4)   A statement as to whether the application is for new permit,
renewal of an existing permit, a change in hours of operation or the addition
of a food zone location(s);
      (5)   A statement that the applicant or any of its food service workers
has not been convicted of any crime that involves any local, state or federal
law, or regulation arising out of the operation of a similar business;
      (6)   A statement that the applicant or any of its food service workers
has not been convicted of a crime as a result of having perpetrated deceptive
practices upon the public within the last ten years;
      (7)   A signed statement that the applicant shall hold harmless the city
and its officers and employees, and shall indemnify the city, its officers and
employees for any claims for damage to property or injury to persons which may
be occasioned by an activity carried on under the terms of the permit if the
permit is for operation on public property or right-of-way. The permittee shall
furnish and maintain such public liability, food products liability and
property damage insurance as will protect vendors, property owners and the city
from all claims for damage to property or bodily injury, including death, which
may arise from the operations under the permit or in connection therewith. Such
insurance shall provide coverage of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence,
with the city listed as an additional insured. A copy of same shall be attached
with all applications before a license is issued. The policy shall further
provide that it may not be cancelled except upon 30 days written notice served
upon the city. A permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this section shall
be invalid at any time the insurance required herein is not maintained and
evidence of continuing coverage is not filed with the city; and
      (8)   Such other additional information required by law, rule, ordinance
or that any department of the city, Mobile Food Vendors Committee, City Council
or information reasonably deemed appropriate to assist the city in determining
whether the permit should be granted. The applicant shall be provided
reasonable time to supplement the application.
   (B)   The provisions of this section may be waived, suspended or delegated
to a festival or special event Committee authorized by the city.
(Ord. 22-05, passed 6-13-2022)
§ 119.06 APPLICATION, LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Each applicant shall maintain an occupational license fee permit and
timely file all occupational license fee returns and reports as required by the
city code and promptly pay all occupational license fee taxes when due.
Additionally, all permittees shall comply with the city’s restaurant tax
ordinance, timely filing all reports when due and paying all taxes when due.
   (B)   The provisions of this section may be waived, suspended or delegated
to a festival or special event committee authorized by the Mobile Food Vendors
Committee for the city.
(Ord. 22-05, passed 6-13-2022)
§ 119.07 GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person or business entity, including religious or charitable
organization, shall operate a mobile food vehicle and/or mobile food vending
upon the public right-of-way within the city without a permit issued by the
city hereunder.
   (B)   Hours of operation shall be limited to the hours between 10:00 a.m. to
9:00 p.m., Monday through Sunday. Hours of operation shall be adjusted by the
Mobile Food Vendors Committee at the Committee’s discretion. It shall be
unlawful to leave any approved mobile food vehicle unattended on a public
right-of-way, nor remain on a public or private property outside of these
allowed hours of operation.
   (C)   No mobile food vehicle or mobile food vending shall occur within 500
feet of any existing restaurant. Mobile food vehicles and/or mobile food
vendors shall not operate within 1,000 feet of any fair, stadium, carnival,
circus, festival, special event, civic event or other like event that is
licensed or sanctioned by the city, unless they are authorized participants in
such event.
   (D)   The permit shall contain additional limitations on hours and days that
the Mobile Food Committee determines are appropriate, including limitations to
prevent conflict with special events.
   (E)   No mobile food vehicle and/or mobile food vendor shall use or maintain
any outside sound amplifying equipment, lights (other than nonmoving or
flashing sign lights) or noisemakers, such as bells, sirens, horns or whistles,
or similar devices to attract customers. A mobile food vehicle and/or vendor
may use battery operated lights with appropriate protective shields for the
purpose of illuminating merchandise.
   (F)   With the exception of trash bin receptacles, no mobile food vehicle or
vendor shall use external signage, seating or any other equipment not contained
within the vehicle on the public sidewalks where their permit authorizes use of
the sidewalk.
   (G)   No mobile food vehicle and/or mobile food vendor shall have any
exclusive and/or perpetual right to any location upon the streets, alleys or
public grounds of the city.
   (H)   No mobile food vehicle and/or mobile food vendor granted a permit to
operate within the city right-of-way shall be of a size so as to interfere with
the city or public’s use of any public ways.
   (I)   No mobile food vehicle and/or mobile food vendor shall vend in any
congested area where the operation will impede pedestrian or vehicle traffic,
including customer queues, accessory units or signage.
   (J)   No mobile food vehicle and/or mobile food vendor shall make or solicit
any sales to occupants of vehicles or engage in any activities which impede
vehicular traffic.
   (K)   Permittee shall obey any lawful order of a police officer to move to a
different permitted location to avoid congestion or obstruction of a public
right-of-way or remove the mobile food vehicle or pushcart entirely from the
public right-of-way adjacent property if necessary to avoid such congestion or
obstruction.
   (L)   The mobile food vehicle and/or mobile vendor must prominently display
the name and address of owner.
   (M)   Any power required for the mobile food vehicle and/or pushcart located
on a public way shall be self-contained and shall not draw its power from the
public right-of-way. No power cable or equipment shall be extended at grade or
overhead across any public street, alley or sidewalk unless the permit
specifically allows such.
   (N)   The permittee and/or licensee shall contain all refuse, trash and
litter within the mobile food vehicle or a small moveable trash can maintained
by the permittee and/or licensee, and located adjacent to the mobile food
vehicle and/or pushcart in such a manner as not to block or otherwise obstruct
pedestrian or vehicular traffic. The owner/operator of the mobile food vehicle
and/or public food vendor shall be responsible for properly disposing of such
refuse, trash and litter as would any business, and shall not place it in any
public trash container, or in any private container without proper permission.
   (O)   The proposed mobile food vehicle and/or pushcart vending activity
shall not violate the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 29 U.S.C.
§§ 12101 et seq.
   (P)   If an existing mobile food zone conflicts with the requirements set
forth in this chapter, the Mobile food Vendors Committee shall make a
determination if it will be feasible to issue a new permit when the existing
permit expires.
   (Q)   Mobile food vending shall only occur from the side of a food vehicle
that is parked abutting and parallel to the curb.
   (R)   The mobile food vehicle shall not have drive-through service.
   (S)   The decibels on any generator(s) used may not exceed 60 dBA. The
operator must provide the manufacturer’s specs on decibels generated by his or
her particular generator. The Police Department will make the final
determination if power generators used by mobile food vehicles constitute a
noise violation.
   (T)   The use of the permitted operating location for mobile food vehicles
and/or mobile food vendors must be compatible with the public interest in use
of the public right-of-way. In making such determination, the Mobile Food
Vendors Committee shall consider the width of the public way, parking issues
and traffic congestion, the weight that can be supplied by the paving or street
surface at the proposed location, the proximity and location of existing street
furniture, including, but not limited to, utility poles, parking meters, bus
shelters, benches, street trees, news racks, as well as the presence of bus
stops, truck loading zones, taxi stands or other businesses or approved mobile
food vehicles to determine whether the requested location would result in
pedestrian or street congestion.
   (U)   Any new business that opens or moves near an existing mobile food
vehicle or pushcart zone shall be deemed to have accepted the proximity of the
existing mobile food vehicle and/or push cart in operation.
(Ord. 22-05, passed 6-13-2022) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.08 PROHIBITION AGAINST THE TRANSFER OF A PERMIT AND/OR LICENSE.
   (A)   No permit is transferable without approval of the Mobile Food Vendors
Committee.
   (B)   No person holding a permit and/or license for a mobile food vehicle
shall sell, lend, lease or in any manner transfer a mobile food vehicle permit
and/or license for value.
   (C)   A permit and/or license holder may transfer a permit and/or license as
part of the sale of a majority of the stock in a corporation holding such
permit and/or license, as part of the sale of a majority of the membership
interests of a limited liability company holding such permit and/or license, or
as part of the sale of a business or substantially all of its assets; provided
that there shall be no allocated or actual value for the transfer of the permit
and/or license.
      (1)   Prior to any such transfer, the transferor shall notify the Mobile
Food Vendors Committee in writing and the transferee shall submit a mobile food
vehicle permit application for approval to the Mobile Food Vendors Committee.
      (2)   Any such transfer shall be subject to the terms and conditions of
the original permit.
   (D)   Any unauthorized transfer or attempt to transfer a permit shall
automatically void such permit. (Ord. 22-05, passed 6-13-2022) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.09 DENIAL, REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR PERMIT AND/OR BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   An application or approved permit and/or business license may be
denied, revoked, suspended or not renewed for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The permittee and/or licensee or any of its principals fails to
satisfy any qualification or requirements imposed by this chapter, or other
local, state or federal laws or regulations that pertain to the particular
license;
      (2)   The permittee and/or licensee or any of its principals is or has
engaged in a business, trade or profession without having obtained a valid
license, permit or work card when such applicant or principal knew or
reasonably should have known that one was required;
      (3)   The permittee and/or licensee or any of its principals has been
subject, in any jurisdiction, to disciplinary action of any kind with respect
to a license, permit or work card to the extent that such disciplinary action
reflects upon the qualification, acceptability or fitness of the applicant or
principal to conduct such a business;
      (4)   The permittee and/or licensee or any of its principals has been
convicted of any crime that involves any local, state or federal law or
regulation arising out of the operation of a similar business;
      (5)   The permittee and/or licensee or any of its principals has been
convicted of a crime as a result of having perpetrated deceptive practices upon
the public within the last ten years;
      (6)   The motor food vehicle on which the business is proposed to be
conducted does not satisfy all local, state or federal laws or regulations
which relate to the activity that is to be licensed;
      (7)   The licensee or any of its principals is in default on any payments
owed to the city;
      (8)   The application contains material omissions or false, fraudulent or
deceptive statements;
      (9)   The motor food vehicle is operated in such a manner as constituting
a public nuisance per the city code or statutes;
      (10)   The proposed operation is in violation of any federal, state or
local laws including, but not limited to, the provisions of this chapter
pertaining to food, fire prevention, and public health and safety;
      (11)   The licensee, his or her agents, or employees interfere with an
inspection of the food establishment by a Health Department;
      (12)   There are repeated or serious violations of the applicable
portions of this chapter;
      (13)   There are repeated or serious violations of federal or state food
laws, or laws regulating food establishments as defined in this chapter;
      (14)   The County Health Department denies, revokes or suspends the
license of the mobile food vehicle or mobile food vendor;
      (15)   There is a violation of any section of this chapter; or
      (16)   The mobile food vehicle fails to have the required registration
and proof of insurance.
   (B)   The provisions of this section are not exclusive. This section shall
not preclude the enforcement of any other provisions of this chapter or state
and federal laws, and regulations. The County Health Department may impose
additional requirements to protect against health hazards related to the
operation of a mobile food vehicle.
(Ord. 22-05, passed 6-13-2022)
§ 119.10 APPEAL TO COMMITTEE UPON DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Upon any denial, revocation or suspension of a mobile food vehicle
permit and/or business license by the Mobile Food Vendors Committee, the
applicant or permittee and/or licensee may appeal the denial to the Committee
by filing a written statement of appeal with the City Clerk/Treasurer within
ten days following the denial, revocation or suspension and a hearing shall be
held thereon by the Committee at a regular or special meeting of the City
Council or a continuance. The applicant or permittee, during the appeal, may be
represented by Council.
      (1)   Prior to revocation, written notice shall be given to the permittee
and/or licensee or person in charge. The notice shall set forth:
         (a)   The grounds upon which the city will seek denial, revocation or
suspension of the permit and/or license;
         (b)   The specific violations of this chapter or of federal or state
law upon which the city will rely in seeking denial, revocation or suspension
of the permit and/or license;
         (c)   That a hearing will be held before the City Council;
         (d)   The date, time and place of the hearing; and
         (e)   That the permittee and/or licensee may appear in person and/or
be represented by counsel and may present testimony.
      (2)   The hearing shall be held in accordance with this section. If the
permit and/or license holder fails to appear at the hearing at the time, place
and date specified, the city shall present sufficient evidence to establish a
prima facie case showing that an act or acts have been committed or omitted
that constitutes grounds for denial, revocation or suspension of a permit and/
or license.
      (3)   After completion of the hearing, the City Council shall make
written findings as to whether or not grounds exist for denial, revocation or
suspension of the permit and/or license. If the City Council finds that grounds
exist for denial, revocation or suspension, it shall deny, revoke or suspend
the permit and/or license temporarily for upon 180 days or permanently.
      (4)   A copy of the written findings shall be sent by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the permittee and/or licensee at the address of
the permittee contained in the permittee’s application. The city is entitled to
rely upon the accuracy of the address submitted by the permittee for his or her
application.
      (5)   If the City Council revokes the permit and/or license, written
notice of the revocation shall be served on the permittee and/or licensee or
the person in charge with a copy of the findings.
      (6)   Upon service of a written notice that the permit and/or license
have been revoked as provided herein, all food operations shall cease
immediately. In the event that the permittee’s fail to cease operations, the
mobile food vending vehicle or cart may be impounded.
      (7)   Whenever a permit and/or license are revoked, the County Health
Department shall be notified.
      (8)   In the event a permit and/or license are revoked, the city shall
not be liable to the permittee and/or licensee for any refund of any part of
the permit and/or license fee.
   (B)   Reinstatement of a permittee and/or licensee that has been revoked
shall require application and payment of a permit and/or license fee as if it
were an initial application. No new permit and/or license application shall be
considered for an establishment or mobile food vehicle where the permit and/or
license have been revoked until the expiration of the revocation period.
(Ord. 22-05, passed 6-13-2022)
§ 119.11 SERVICE OF NOTICES.
   Any notice provided for in this chapter may be served by personal delivery,
certified mail, return receipt requested or by posting a copy on the mobile
food vending vehicle.
(Ord. 22-05, passed 6-13-2022)
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person vending without a duly issued permit, license and personal
identification or found in violation of any of the regulatory provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of an infraction, of which person has been
given notice, shall be treated as a misdemeanor punishable by jail time not to
exceed one year and/or fines as noted hereinbelow.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced jointly by the Police
Department.
   (D)   (1)   Any permit holder operating a mobile food vehicle or service in
violation of any provision of this chapter promulgated by the Mobile Food
Vendors Committee may be subject to a fine of $300 per day. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. Violation for a
second offense shall be $500 per day. The city shall have a lien upon the
violator’s mobile food vehicle for payment of all fines imposed hereunder.
      (2)   The Mobile Food Vendors Committee may suspend a permit and/or
license for no more than three days without a notice or hearing, if there is a
probability of serious or repetitive violation of public safety, health or
order.
   (E)   (1)   Once a permit and/or license has been issued, it may be revoked,
suspended, modified or not renewed by the City Clerk/Treasurer for failure to
comply with the provisions of this section or any rules and regulation
promulgated by the Mobile Food Vendors Committee, including, but not limited
to, failure to pay any outstanding fines or penalties.
      (2)   With the exception of division (D)(1) above, no permit and/or
license shall be revoked, suspended, modified or not renewed without a hearing
before the City Council, prior to which hearing the Council shall give
reasonable notice of the time and place of the hearing and the specific grounds
of the proposed action. The decision resulting there from shall be final and
subject only to judicial review.
   (F)   Any permit and/or license holder found in violation of this section or
any rules and regulations may be issued a ticket for violation and the mobile
food vehicle may be impounded until the violation fine has been paid in full
along with the cost and expense of impoundment, towing and storage.
   (G)   Any mobile food vehicle or pushcart being operated without a valid
mobile food vehicle permit and/or license issued by the Mobile Food Vendors
Committee shall be deemed a public safety hazard and may be immediately
impounded without notice. The owner of the vehicle will be required to pay any
lien for towing and storage incurred by the city in addition to any other fines
and penalties prior to return of the vehicle or pushcart.
   (H)   No mobile food vehicle shall be parked on the street overnight, or
left unattended and unsecured at any time. Any mobile food vehicle which is
found to be unattended shall be considered a public safety hazard and may be
impounded. The owner of the vehicle will be required to pay any lien for towing
and storage incurred by the city in addition to any other fines and penalties
prior to return of the vehicle or pushcart.
   (I)   In the event that it is necessary to file a civil action to enforce
this chapter or for collection of undue fines and penalties, the violator shall
be responsible for paying a reasonable attorney fee for enforcement of this
chapter.
   (J)   Whoever violates §
119.08, including both the transferor and transferee, shall be subject to a
fine of $300. The unauthorized transfer or attempt to transfer of each permit
shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 22-05, passed 6-13-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   FIREARMS
CHAPTER 130: FIREARMS
Section
   
130.01   Purpose
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Specific prohibitions
   
130.04   Exceptions
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to regulate the discharge of
firearms within the boundaries of the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 19-01, passed 2-12-2012)
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCHARGE. Causing the mechanism to activate on a firearm so that a
projectile is thrown from the gun.
   GUN. A firearm for throwing a projectile with gunpowder, spring power or air
pressure.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) (Ord. 19-01, passed 2-12-2012)
§ 130.03 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall discharge a firearm within city limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) (Ord. 19-01, passed 2-12-2012) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   All peace officers, as defined in the Kentucky Revised Statues are
exempted from the provisions of this chapter so long as they are acting in the
line of duty.
   (B)   All other persons who have lawfully discharged a firearm in protection
of themselves or other persons under such circumstances as a reasonable person
would feel justified in so acting.
(Prior Code, § 130.04) (Ord. 19-01, passed 2-12-2012)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First conviction: Class B misdemeanor constituting a fine not to
exceed $250 and/or up to 90 days in jail.
   (B)   Second conviction and subsequent convictions: Class A misdemeanor
constituting a fine not to exceed $500 and/or up to one year in jail.
(Prior Code, § 130.99) (Ord. 19-01, passed 2-12-2012)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   EXISTING STRUCTURES CODE
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   ZONING CODE
      
154.   MAPPING AND ADDRESSING OF PROPERTY
      
155.   VACANT RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code; enforcement agent
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Appeals
   
150.04   Fire Prevention Code adopted by reference
   
150.05   Electrical inspection fees
   
150.06   Building Code Officer
Permits
   
150.20   Review of applications
   
150.21   Building and zoning permit schedule
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE; ENFORCEMENT AGENT.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Title 815, Chapter 7 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Residential Code, as
contained in Title 815, Chapter 7 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations;
the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as contained in Title 815, Chapter 20 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as
contained in Title 815, Chapter 10 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations,
together with any amendments, are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth in this code of ordinances. Copies of the above codes and any amendments
thereto shall be placed on file in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer where
they shall be available for public inspection during normal business hours.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall be designated as the local enforcement
agent for the Kentucky Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. passed 11-9-1981) Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Kentucky Building Code, see 815 KAR 7:120
   Kentucky Plumbing Code, see 815 KAR 20:010
Kentucky Residential Code, see 815 KAR 7:125
   Kentucky Standards of Safety, see 815 KAR 10:060
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code shall be extended to all single-
family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
(Prior Code, § 150.02)
§ 150.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B, is
established to hear the appeals.
(Prior Code, § 150.03)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.04 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Standards of Safety as contained in Chapter 10, Title 815
of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations and the National Fire Code and all
amendments thereto are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this
code of ordinances as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   All premises are subject to the provisions in the codes, with the
stricter code having preference. The Fire Chief of the city is the designated
enforcement officer and the City Building Inspector (or Zoning Ordinance
Enforcement Officer) has certain duties with respect to issuance of building
permits and other entitlement pursuant to the Zoning Code in conjunction with
the Fire Chief meeting or not meeting the requirements of the codes, a copy of
which may be reviewed at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (C)   The enforcement of the codes will be the same procedure as set out in
the zoning ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 150.04) (Ord. passed 1-28-1991)
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks; fire prevention, see
Chapter 93
Statutory reference:
   Kentucky Standards of Safety, see 815 KAR 10:060
§ 150.05 ELECTRICAL INSPECTION FEES.
   The following shall be the inspection fee schedule for electrical
inspections:
                                                          1% of project costs
                                                          up to $500,000
                                                          0.75% of project
Commercial/industrial                                     costs up to
                                                          $1,000,000
                                                          0.5% of project costs
                                                          over $1,000,000
Electrical permit                                         $20
Residential inspections
   Complete renovation                                 $80 per inspection
   Duplexes - first unit (each additional unit up to 6 $80 and $20 per unit
plex)
   Mobile homes                                        $80
   Service changes                                     $80
   Single-family dwellings (SFD) up to 4,000 square fee$80 per inspection
   Temporary services                                  $80
 
(Prior Code, § 150.05) (Ord. 15-03, passed 6-22-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Electrical company provisions, see
Chapter 116
§ 150.06 BUILDING CODE OFFICER.
   (A)   Class of title. Building Code Officer.
   (B)   Characteristics of the class. This is a supervisory position that also
requires skill and knowledge of building codes and zoning ordinances. This work
also requires the basic skills of planning, supervising and enacting the plans
set out for the city for its codes and zoning enforcement.
   (C)   Essential elements. Assists in the creation, application and
enforcement of all city building codes and zoning regulations.
   (D)   Nonessential elements. Performs other related duties as required.
   (E)   Desirable qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. Graduation from an accredited high school
or its equivalent (GED) supplemented by one to three years’ experience in
performing the duties described above.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities.
         (a)   Extensive knowledge of all building codes and zoning ordinances;
         (b)   Ability to understand and follow oral and written instructions;
         (c)   Ability to read and write; and
         (d)   State driver’s license.
   (F)   Compensation. This position shall be funded through permit and
application fees that relates to the building permits and zoning permits as may
be generated through the city and such other allocations as may be approved by
the Board of Council.
(Ord. 21-09, passed 1-11-2022)
PERMITS
§ 150.20 REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall review all building permit applications
for new construction or substantial improvements to determine whether proposed
building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed building
site is in a location that has a flood hazard, any proposed new construction or
substantial improvement (including prefabricated and mobile homes) must:
      (1)   Be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage; and
      (3)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review subdivision proposals
and other proposed new developments to assure that:
      (1)   All proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall require new or replacement
water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage systems to be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from
the systems into flood waters, and require on-site waste disposal systems to be
located so as to avoid impairment of them or contamination from them during
flooding.
(Prior Code, § 150.15) (Res. passed 6-2-1975)
§ 150.21 BUILDING AND ZONING PERMIT SCHEDULE.
   The building and zoning permit schedule shall be as follows.
Application Fees and Other Service Fees
Application Fees and Other Service Fees
Architectural Review Board - appeal fee (refunded if appeal is won)  $75
Architectural Review Board application fee                           $150
Board of Adjustment - appeals (refunded if appeal is won)            $100
Board of Adjustment - conditional use                                $200
Board of Adjustment - variance request                               $200
                                                                     $25 +
                                                                     $2.50/foot
Street cut permit                                                    after
                                                                     first 20
                                                                     feet
Zone change request                                                  $500
Building Permits
Additional inspection (beyond 2 trips)                               $40/trip
Certificate of occupancy                                             $10
Change of use inspection fee                                         $100
Demolition permit                                                    $30/
                                                                     structure
Land disturbance/fill permit                                         $400
                                                                     $42 + $5
                                                                     for each
Project valuation $2,001 to $15,000                                  $1,000
                                                                     over
                                                                     $2,000
                                                                     $104 + $4
                                                                     for each
Project valuation $15,001 to $50,000                                 $1,000
                                                                     over
                                                                     $15,000
                                                                     $244 +
                                                                     $3.50 for
Project valuation $50,001 to $100,000                                each
                                                                     $1,000
                                                                     over
                                                                     $50,000
                                                                     $380 +
                                                                     $2.25 for
Project valuation $100,001 to $500,000                               each
                                                                     $1,000
                                                                     over
                                                                     $100,000
Project valuation does not exceed $2,000                             $30
                                                                     $1280 +
                                                                     $1.75 for
Project valuation over $500,001                                      each
                                                                     $1,000
                                                                     over
                                                                     $500,000
Tent or temporary structure                                          $125
Zoning permit                                                        $10
Codes Enforcement
Bulk item pickup (couch, mattress, carpet and the like)              $60
                                                                     $63.60 (1
Mowing per hour (1-hour minimum)                                     mower + 1
                                                                     laborer +
                                                                     tax)
                                                                     $30/hour
                                                                     laborer +
Trash removal, cleanup and miscellaneous                             FEMA
                                                                     equipment
                                                                     rate/hour
Electrical Fees
Barns, garages, outbuildings and pump station (new service)          $100
Commercial (less than $50,000) 200-amp service                       $175
Commercial (less than $50,000) 400-amp service                       $320
Commercial (less than $50,000) 600-amp service                       $450
Commercial (less than $50,000) 800-amp service                       $560
Commercial (less than $50,000) 1,000-amp service                     $650
Commercial (no new service) less than $50,000                        $175
Contract based pricing- $50,000 - $200,000                           Contract x
                                                                     0.010
Contract based pricing - $200,0001 - $400,000                        Contract x
                                                                     0.009
Contract based pricing - $400,001 and over                           Contract x
                                                                     0.008
                                                                     $125 per
Duplex and multi-family                                              dwelling
                                                                     unit
Mobile home service                                                  $100
Residential: single-family 100-amp service                           $135
Residential: single-family 200-amp service                           $150
Residential: single-family 400-amp service                           $200
Service change                                                       $75
Signs                                                                $75
Swimming pools, additions (2 trips)                                  $150
Temporary service (construction service)                             $50
Trip charge or reinspection                                          $75
Maps, Photos and Copies
8-1/2” x 11” to 11” x 17” aerial photo, photo or zone map    $8
8-1/2” x 11” to 11” x 17” plot of digital map (existing - no $4
drafting)
18” x 24” aerial photo, photo or zone map                        $12
18” x 24” blueline of survey records                             $10
18” x 24” plot of digital map (existing - no drafting)           $6
24” x 36” aerial photo, photo or zone map                        $16
24” x 36” or larger copies of plans or plats                     $6 per
                                                                     page
24” x 36” plot of digital map (existing - no drafting)           $8
36” x 48” aerial photo, photo or zone map                        $24
36” x 48” blueline of survey records                             $12
36” x 48” plot of digital map (existing - no drafting)           $10
                                                                     $10
Copies of zoning and subdivision regulations                         unbound;
                                                                     $15 bound
                                                                     $15
Copy of comprehensive plan                                           unbound;
                                                                     $25 bound
Copy of DVD                                                          $5
Mechanical Permits (based on slate mandated fees per contract)
                                                                     Based on
                                                                     cost, see
Commercial buildings                                                 HVAC
                                                                     commercial
                                                                     permit
                                                                     Based on
                                                                     cost, see
Industrial buildings                                                 HVAC
                                                                     commercial
                                                                     permit
                                                                     $105 first
                                                                     unit - $50
Multi-family                                                         each
                                                                     additional
                                                                     unit
                                                                     $1,050
                                                                     first unit
Single-family and duplexes                                           - $50 each
                                                                     additional
                                                                     unit
Plat Fees
Development plans - all zones                                        $600
Final plat - all zones                                               $300
Minor plat - all zones                                               $150
Preliminary plat - all zones                                         $300
Preliminary plat construction plan review (infrastructure)           $800
Punchiest for construction guarantee (includes 1 initial and         $200
1followup inspection)
Sign Permits
Temporary sign permit
Note:
These fees may be amended from time to time as approved by the Board of
Council.
 
(Ord. 21-09, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense. Each day the violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(KRS 318.990)
   (B)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000, imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
   (C)   Violators of the Uniform State Building Code or the Uniform State
Residential Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $1,000 for each offense. Each day the violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 150.99)
Statutory reference:
   Violations of State Building or Residential Code; penalty, see KRS 227.990
(1)
CHAPTER 151: EXISTING STRUCTURES CODE
Section
   
151.01   BOCA National Existing Structure Code adopted by reference
   
151.02   Revisions to code
§ 151.01 BOCA NATIONAL EXISTING STRUCTURE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   A certain document, copies of which are on file in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer, being marked and designated as “The BOCA National Existing
Structures Code, Second Edition, 1990” as published by the Building Officials
and Code Administrators International, Inc., be and is hereby adopted as the
Existing Structures Code of the city; for the control of buildings and
structures as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of the BOCA National Existing Structures Code
are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in §
151.02.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 93-2, passed 5-10-1993)
§ 151.02 REVISIONS TO CODE.
   The BOCA National Existing Structures Code is amended and revised in the
following respects:
   (A)   Section ES-100.1 (page 2, second line). Insert: “Irvine, Kentucky.”
   (B)   Section ES-110.2 (page 8, third line). Insert: “$25.00” (first amount)
and “$250.00” (second amount).
   (C)   Section ES-110.2 (page 8, fourth line). Insert: “30 days.”
   (D)   Section ES-111.4 (page 10, second line). Insert: “one day.”
(Prior Code, § 151.02) (Ord. 3-90, passed 3-27-1990)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Purpose; objectives
   
152.04   Definitions
   
152.05   Application; jurisdiction
   
152.06   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
152.07   Compliance
   
152.08   Interpretation
   
152.09   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Civil offense
   
152.12   Violation notice
   
152.13   Development permit
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.25   General construction standards
   
152.26   Specific standards
   
152.27   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation
(unnumbered A Zones) and/or floodways
   
152.28   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.29   Standards for areas of shallow flooding zones
   
152.30   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter “A”
   
152.31   Critical facilities
Administration
   
152.45   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.46   Establishment of development permit
   
152.47   Floodplain Administrator; duties and responsibilities
   
152.48   Appeals and variance procedures
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The Legislature of the Commonwealth has in KRS Chapter 100 delegated
to local government units the authority to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   (B)   Therefore, the City Council does ordain the following.
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood height and velocity, and by the
location in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(Prior Code, § 152.02) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
§ 152.03 PURPOSE; OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flooding
by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve those uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood prone areas in
a manner as to minimize flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
      (7)   To ensure that potential home buyers are on notice that property is
in a special flood hazard area; and
      (8)   To ensure those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Prior Code, § 152.03) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
§ 152.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principle source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snow melt or a
combination of both. In A ZONES, floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but
waves are usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year
flood, base flood elevations and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principle structure, the use of which is incidental
to the use of the principle structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a
minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation and should be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay
sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common
loadbearing wall other than a fire wall. Any walled and roofed addition which
is connected by a fire wall or is separated by independent perimeter
loadbearing walls is a new construction.
   A1-30 AND AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
shown.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1 - A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO AND AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete, these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   A99 ZONE. That part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) where the base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined, the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   B AND X ZONES (SHADED). Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than one square mile, and areas
protected by levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the “100-year flood”). BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH and AR/AO
that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a 1%
or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground,
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank, or other human-made
facility or infrastructure. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated or qualified community
official) from available technical studies, historical information, and other
available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic inundation by
floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to, housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A nonbasement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, columns (post and piers), shear walls or breakaway walls. (See
FREEBOARD requirements for residential and nonresidential structures.)
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. The portion of a structure below the base flood elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the START OF CONSTRUCTION
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as “existing structures”.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the city based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-year flood have a moderate to
low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD, FLOODING or FLOODWATER.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslide (such as, mudflows).
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (such as, mudflow) and flood-related erosion areas having
special hazards have been designated as Zones A, M and/or E by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) and/or the flood boundary
floodway map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited to, emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control) and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a nonresidential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation
with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all
structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional
hydraulic and/or hydrologic analysis.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. The variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public, in examining this requirement. The City Council
will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100
years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger and suffering that those
increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. FREEBOARD must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components and the like.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A facility, structure or other development,
which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located or carried
out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or port
facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, such as county or municipality
that is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The HAZARD POTENTIAL classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (such as, safety, structural integrity and flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
      (1)   Increased cost of compliance coverage provides for the payment of a
claim for the cost to comply with state or community floodplain management laws
or ordinances after a direct physical loss by flood. When a building covered by
a standard flood insurance policy under the NFIP sustains a loss and the state
or community declares the building to be substantially or repetitively damaged,
ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the cost to elevate, floodproof, demolish
or remove the building.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and nonresidential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   KRS 151.250 PLANS FOR DAMS, LEVEES AND THE LIKE TO BE APPROVED AND PERMITS
ISSUED BY CABINET (ENVIRONMENTAL AND PUBLIC PROTECTION CABINET).
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts for systems or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill or other obstruction (except
those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream, or
in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for such
work have been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction or improvement, and such plans and
specifications have been approved in writing by the Cabinet and a permit
issued. However, the Cabinet by regulation may exempt those dams, embankments
or other obstructions, which are not of such size or type as to require
approval by the cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county or other political subdivision of the state
shall commence the filing of any area with earth, debris or any other material,
or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building, barrier or
obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or stream, or
in the floodway of the stream so that such filling, raising or obstruction will
in any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the floodway of the
stream unless plans and specifications for such work have been submitted to and
approved by the Cabinet and a permit issued as required in division (1) above.
      (3)   Nothing in this section is intended to give the Cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance or operation of any drainage district, ditch or system
established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the same
except where such obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by the
Cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water resources
in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control thereof so
notified. The Department for Natural Resources through KRS Chapter 350 shall
have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Chapter 151 concerning the regulation of
dams, levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills or other obstructions across
or along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which structures are
permitted under KRS Chapter 350 for surface coal mining operations.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMCs include the following
categories.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION - FILL (LOMR F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM.
      (1)   A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
      (2)   For a LEVEE SYSTEM to be recognized, the following criteria must be
met:
         (a)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised).
         (b)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or
state agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a
community participating in the NFIP.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support or
basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion of
construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure’s foundation
system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME also includes park trailers, travel trailers and similar
transportable structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer
and intended to be improved property. MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) or the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA, the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value) or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community’s FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is two-fold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow or
inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (MUDFLOW) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is in
progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator only
if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage that
occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (MINI FLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall program
of collective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (mudflow) damage,
including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, mudslide control
works and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of properly in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRMs. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the START OF CONSTRUCTION commenced
on or after the effective date of the city’s floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
dale of the city’s adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   NONRESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including, but not limited to, small business concerns, churches, schools, farm
structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRMs and digitally referenced FIRMS
(DFIRMs). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 1% or greater
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that
begins with the letter “A” is subject to the 100-YEAR FLOOD. Over the life of a
30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a flood with the SFHA.
See BASE FLOOD.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31,1974, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of probation, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards in 44 C.F.R. §§
60.3, 60.4, 60.5 and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community’s participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of
noncompliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or
reducing federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or other
development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a ten-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred, or, four or more flood
losses of $1,000 or more over the life of the structure, or, three or more
flood losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than
the current value of the structure.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any properly that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). That portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AO or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION (includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development). The date a building permit is issued; provided the actual
START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the properly of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure, for a substantial
improvement. The ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground,
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other human-made
facilities or infrastructures. See BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.
      (1)   Any damage to a building for which the cost of repairs equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the damage occurring.
This term includes structures that are categorized as repetitive loss.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, repair is considered to occur
when the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of the building commences.
      (3)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a HISTORIC STRUCTURE; provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure s continued designation as a
HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any combination of reconstruction, alteration or improvement to a
building, taking place during a one-year period in which the cumulative
percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the current market value of
the building. For the purposes of this definition, an improvement occurs when
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of
the building commenced, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the following.
      (2)   This term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions;
         (b)   Any alteration of a HISTORIC STRUCTURE; provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
HISTORIC STRUCTURE; or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities
and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets, utilities and
pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to fully comply
with this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the flood plains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake
or underlying aquifer.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older
FIRMs) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is
less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or a flood
insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Prior Code, § 152.04) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
§ 152.05 APPLICATION; JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated or qualified community official as determined by
the City Council from available technical studies, historical information, and
other available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the City
Council which may be subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters that can
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens.
(Prior Code, § 152.05) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
§ 152.06 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the flood insurance study (FIS) for the county,
dated May 24, 2011, with the accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs),
other supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by the city and for
those land areas acquired by the city through annexation. This FIS and
attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may
be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of this
chapter and which are recommended to the City Council by the Floodplain
Administrator and are enacted by City Council pursuant to statutes governing
land use management regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent records of
the city and are on file and available for review by the public during regular
business hours at the City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 152.06) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
§ 152.07 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations. Violation of the requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall
prevent the City Council from taking such law action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 152.07) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be considered as minimum requirements; liberally construed in favor of the
governing body; and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 152.08) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
§ 152.09 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within the areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall
not create liability on the part of the City Council, any officer or employee,
the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the Federal Insurance Administration or the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decisions lawfully made
thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 152.09) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions,
shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 152.10) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
§ 152.11 CIVIL OFFENSE.
   If, at any time, development occurs which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications,
such development shall constitute a civil offense.
(Prior Code, § 152.11) (Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
§ 152.12 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   (A)   If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or agent of the Floodplain
Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a person has caused
development to occur which is not in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and conditions of a
floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications thereof, a duly
authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a notice to the
person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner, stating the
facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/or of the
permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be remedied to bring
the development into conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit,
and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which period of time
shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the violation and
whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may include an order
to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state that a citation
may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and corrective
actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary fine and
shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed.
   (B)   If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or agent of the Floodplain
Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a person has caused
development to occur which is not in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and conditions of a
floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications thereof, a duly
authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a citation to the
offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation issued, how the
violation is to be remedied to bring the development into conformity with this
chapter or with the approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy
is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are recommended. When a citation is
issued, the person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the citation
within seven days of the date the citation is issued by either carrying out the
remedies and corrections set forth in the citation, paying the civil fine set
forth in the citation or requesting a hearing before the governing body. If the
person to whom the citation is issued does not respond to the citation within
seven days, that person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing
and the determination that a violation occurred shall be considered final.
(Prior Code, § 152.12) (Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
§ 152.13 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
152.46 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 152.13) (Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.25 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constricted
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if the nonconformity is not furthered, extended or replaced.
(Prior Code, § 152.40) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.26 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data
have been provided, as set forth in §
152.06, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, mechanical equipment and duct work elevated no lower
than at or above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter
walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the
unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with
standards of division (C) below.
      (1)   In an AO Zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified.
      (2)   In an A Zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated at or above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses,
use of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, and
best supportable and reasonable judgment in the event no data can be produced.
Title 401 KAR 4:060 states as a part of the technical requirements for a state
floodplain permit, the applicant shall provide cross-sections for determining
floodway boundaries (and thereby base flood elevations) at any proposed
construction site where FEMA maps are not available. All cross-sections shall
be referenced to mean sea level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no
more than five-tenths foot. Cross-section elevations shall be taken at those
points which represent significant breaks in slope and at points where
hydraulic characteristics of the base floodplain change. Each cross-section
shall extend across the entire base floodplain and shall be in the number and
at the locations specified by the cabinet. If necessary to ensure that
significant flood damage will not occur, the Cabinet may require additional
cross-sections or specific site elevations which extend beyond those needed for
making routine regulatory floodway boundary calculations.
      (3)   In all other zones, elevated at or above the base flood elevation,
upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor
including basement shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
surveyor and verified by the Community Building Inspection Department to be
properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or nonresidential structure
(including manufactured homes used for nonresidential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (A) above or together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be floodproofed below an elevation at or above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment and
duct work, elevated no lower than at or above the level of the base flood
elevation;
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in division (A)(3) above;
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) below;
or
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below an
elevation at or above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin 1-
93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts or pilings that include fully enclosed
areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base flood
elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed to
allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square fool of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   (a)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed
on sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH and AE on the community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
            1.   On individual lots or parcels;
            2.   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            3.   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
            4.   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            5.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; or
            6.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of
a flood.
         (b)   All manufactured homes must be:
            1.   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than at or above the
level of the base flood elevation; and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that the
manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, so that either the:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than at or above the level of the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A,
A1-30, AO, AH and AE on the community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) must
either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for high use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured homes.
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
licensed and insured in accordance with the state motor vehicle regulations, is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
152.06 of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway
is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and has erosion potential, the following
provisions shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of the base flood discharge; and
      (2)   If division (D)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.41) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.27 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION
(UNNUMBERED A ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.06, where small streams exist but where no base flood data have been
provided or where no floodways have been provided, the following provisions
apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within a special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community. The
engineering certification should be supported by technical data that conforms
to standard hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or floodproofed to elevations established in accordance with §
152.46.
(Prior Code, § 152.42) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.28 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In area where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals, and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is
the lesser, shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § 152.43) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.29 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.06, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
flood insurance rate map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated, no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO, the flood depth specified on the
flood insurance rate map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement shall be elevated no
less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to or the base flood elevation or above or, in
Zone AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so
that any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required as stated in §
152.26(B).
(Prior Code, § 152.44) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.30 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER “A”.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated “A,”
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents with no more than one foot above
grade; total openings are to be one square inch per one square foot of floor
area, at least two openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood resistant materials below a level at or above the base
flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Prior Code, § 152.45) (Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
§ 152.31 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the base flood
elevation at the site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Prior Code, § 152.46) (Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.45 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council hereby appoints the Mayor or designee to administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter by granting or denying
development permits in accordance with its provisions, and is herein referred
to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 152.55) (Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
§ 152.46 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area. Application for a
development permit shall be made on forms furnished by Floodplain Administrator
prior to any development activities, and may include, but not be limited to,
the following: plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials or drainage facilities; and the location
of the foregoing. Endorsement of the local administrator is required before a
state floodplain construction permit can be processed. Specifically, the
following information is required.
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade;
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure will be flood-proofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the nonresidential flood-proofed structure will meet
the flood-proofing criteria in §
152.29(B); and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or floodproofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state, a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, AH and AO
Zones where the community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, the
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and
floodproofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed, failure to submit the survey or
failure to make the corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Prior Code, § 152.56) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
§ 152.47 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed, authorized
and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions. The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
shall include, but not be limited to, the following.
   (A)   Permit review. Review all development to ensure that:
      (1)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 22 U.S.C. § 1334;
      (3)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner; and
      (4)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
   (B)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood elevation
data has not been provided in accordance with §
152.06, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
152.25 through
152.31. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Council for
adoption.
   (C)   Notification of other agencies.
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
      (2)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
      (3)   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse is maintained.
   (D)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
      (1)   Certification required by §
152.26(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
152.26(B);
      (2)   Certification required by §
152.26(B) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown on
a completed and certified floodprooofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in accordance with §
152.26(B);
      (3)   Certification required by §
152.26(C) (elevated structures);
      (4)   Certification of elevation required by §
152.28(A) (subdivision standards);
      (5)   Certification required by §
152.26(E) (floodway encroachments);
      (6)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (7)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
      (8)   Take action to remedy violations of this chapter as specified in §
152.12.
   (E)   Map determination. Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for example,
where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions.
      (1)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
152.46(C)(2).
      (2)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
152.06, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
152.25 through
152.31.
      (3)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
152.26(B) a floodproofing certificate.
      (4)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained in the Office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open for
public inspection.
   (F)   Right of entry.
      (1)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes such building, structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Administrator may enter such
building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed upon the administrator by this chapter.
      (2)   If such structure or premises are occupied, he or she shall first
present proper credentials and request entry. If such building, structure or
premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such request
entry.
      (3)   If entry is refused, the Administrator shall have recourse to every
remedy provided by law to secure entry.
      (4)   When the Administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building,
structure or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Administrator for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
   (G)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or his or her agent, or to the
person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be
resumed.
   (H)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued under the
provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by the
Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
   (I)   Liability. Any officer, employee or member of the Floodplain
Administrator’s staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render himself or herself personally liable, and is hereby relieved
from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties. Any suit brought against any officer, employee or member because
of such act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this
chapter shall be defended by the Department of Law until the final termination
of the proceedings.
   (J)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 152.57) (Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
§ 152.48 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nature of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principles of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
ensuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in this chapter are quite rare.
The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can only be
met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance guidelines
provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple provisions that
must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The criteria are
designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives other than a
variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board. The City Council shall
establish an appeals board consisting of the Codes Appeal Board.
   (C)   Duties of Variance and Appeal Board.
      (1)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the local district court, as provided in
state statutes.
   (D)   Appeals/variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the
Appeal Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and properly due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the properly;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safely of access to the properly in limes of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets and bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. MINIMUM NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the City Council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood
hazard, in the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be
made that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not
destroy the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in this chapter),
cause fraud or victimization of the public (as defined in this chapter) or
conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (5)   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and
the elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost
of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (6)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
      (7)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of division (D) above
are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected by
methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not result
in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood, elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the City Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land;
and
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures (see definition) upon determination that
the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (H)   No impact certification within the floodway. Variances shall not be
issued within any mapped or designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
(Prior Code, § 152.58) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with the granting of a variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who violates this chapter or
fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined not more than $100 or imprisoned for not more than ten days, or both, and
in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day the
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing in this
chapter shall prevent the Floodplain Administrator from taking other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 152.99) (Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-24-2011)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
Cross-reference:
   Board of Adjustments and Planning Commission, see
Chapter 31
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The municipal zoning ordinance and zoning map, and all amendments
thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this code of
ordinances as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Copies of the zoning ordinance and zoning map are available for public
inspection during normal hours at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Ord. passed 6- -1970; Ord. passed 1-25-1988; Ord.
passed 7-9-1990; Ord. 1999-11, passed 11-22-1999; Ord. 05-01, passed 6-11-2001;
Res. 2002- , passed 11- -2002; Ord. passed 7-27-2009; Ord. 19-03, passed 7-8-
2019)
CHAPTER 154: MAPPING AND ADDRESSING OF PROPERTY
Section
   
154.01   Applicability
   
154.02   Property to be addressed by number
   
154.03   Notice of noncompliance
   
154.04   Damage to address sign
   
154.05   Enforcement
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all property owners in the
city.
(Prior Code, § 154.01) (Ord. 11-12, passed 1-23-2012)
§ 154.02 PROPERTY TO BE ADDRESSED BY NUMBER.
   (A)   Every property in the city shall be addressed by its address number
assigned to it by the County 911 Center/County Fiscal Court. All procedures
applicable to streets and street addresses as enumerated in County Ordinance
No. 96-3, and its amendments, shall be complied with by every property owner in
the city.
   (B)   The owner of every property in the city shall post his, her or their
assigned address in a manner as to be legible and distinguishable when viewed
from the road on which the property is located. Vanity addresses that do not
meet the addressing criteria are not permissible.
(Prior Code, § 154.02) (Ord. 11-12, passed 1-23-2012) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.03 NOTICE OF NONCOMPLIANCE.
   If a property owner is not in compliance with this chapter, a notice of
noncompliance shall be delivered to the property at issue and by mailing a copy
of the noncompliance notice to the address listed on the property tax bill. The
property owner shall have 30 days after notification on noncompliance to bring
the property into compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.03) (Ord. 11-12, passed 1-23-2012) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.04 DAMAGE TO ADDRESS SIGN.
   No person shall deface, remove, move or cause to be moved any property
address signage in such a manner that it is not visible from the road on which
the property is located.
(Prior Code, § 154.04) (Ord. 11-12, passed 1-23-2012) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Mayor, or his or her designee, shall be responsible for enforcement of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.98) (Ord. 11-12, passed 1-23-2012)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter will be subject to the
following penalties:
   (A)   A fine of up to $250 for the first violation and/or 90 days in jail;
and
   (B)   For each violation thereafter, a fine of not less than $250 and not
more than $500 and/or 180 days in jail.
(Prior Code, § 154.99) (Ord. 11-12, passed 1-23-2012)
CHAPTER 155: VACANT RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION
Section
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Registration
   
155.04   Maintenance
   
155.05   Enforcement
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish a vacant
residential property registration and maintenance program as a mechanism to
protect neighborhoods and minimize hazards to persons and property as a result
of the vacancy.
(Prior Code, § 155.01) (Ord. 94, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CREDITOR. A federal or state chartered bank, savings bank, savings and loan
association, or credit union, and any entity acting on behalf of the creditor
named in the debt obligation including, but not limited to, servicers.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Real property with one to four dwelling units.
   VACANT. A residential property with no legal resident or tenant. Evidence of
vacancy includes any condition that on its own, or combined with other
conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property
is VACANT. Such conditions include, but are not limited to, overgrown or dead
vegetation, accumulation of flyers, mail or trash, disconnected utilities, the
absence of window coverings or furniture, and statements by neighbors, delivery
persons or government employees.
(Prior Code, § 155.02) (Ord. 94, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 155.03 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Prior to filing a complaint of foreclosure or executing a deed in lieu
of foreclosure on a residential property located in the city, a creditor shall
inspect the property to determine whether the property is vacant. If the
property is vacant, the creditor shall, on the same day the complaint of
foreclosure is filed or the deed in lieu of foreclosure is executed, register
the property as a vacant property with the office of the Mayor in which the
property is located for the purpose of minimizing hazards to persons and
property as a result of the vacancy.
   (B)   If a residential property becomes vacant at any time after a creditor
files a complaint of foreclosure or executes a deed in lieu of foreclosure, but
prior to vesting of title in the creditor or a third party, the creditor shall,
within ten business days after obtaining knowledge of the vacancy, register the
property as a vacant property with the city.
(Prior Code, § 155.03) (Ord. 94, passed 12-13-2010) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.04 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Registration of a residential property as a vacant property shall
include the address of the property and the name and contact information of a
person located within the Commonwealth who is authorized to accept service on
behalf of the creditor.
   (B)   If a residential property becomes or remains vacant as provided in §
155.03, but prior to vesting of title in the creditor or any third party, and
the city determines the property is in violation of any ordinance regulating a
nuisance, the city may notify the creditor of the violation by providing notice
of the violation by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the person
identified in division (A) above and may require the creditor to correct the
violation to the extent consistent with the terms of the mortgage.
   (C)   A notice of violation shall include a description of the conditions
that give rise to the violation with the notice of violation and shall provide
a period of not less than 20 days from the creditor’s receipt of the notice for
the creditor to remedy the violation.
(Prior Code, § 155.04) (Ord. 94, passed 12-13-2010) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   If a creditor fails to remedy the violation within the stated period, the
city may issue a citation and impose penalties against the creditor for
violation of any ordinance regulating a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 155.98) (Ord. 94, passed 12-13-2010) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Any creditor that fails to register vacant residential property with the
city shall be subject to a civil fine of $100 payable to the city for each day
of delinquency.
(Prior Code, § 155.99) (Ord. 94, passed 12-13-2010)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS
      
II.   AGREEMENTS
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   STREET CLOSINGS
      
VI.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2-81-1   3-9-1981    Accepting the division and laying of lots and streets and
                     alleys the Armour Addition to the city.
                     Declaring certain property adjoining Whispering Woods
6-13-83C 6-27-1983   Subdivision dedicated for a public way and accepting the
                     dedication.
12-12-83 12-12-1983  Declaring certain property adjoining Hickory Hills
                     dedicated for a public way and accepting the dedication.
                     Accepting a parcel of land from James C. Rising and
Res. – 1-10-1994   designating the use of this land as a park to be named Dr.
                     James C. Rising, City of Irvine Park; otherwise known as
                     Rising Park.
1996-07  - -1996     Accepting the dedication of the upper section of Geneva
                     Avenue.
 
TABLE II: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date      Description
         Passed
Res. – - -       Accepting lease agreement with Clive Rogers.
                   Approving the execution of a contract between the
                   incorporated area of the city located in the county and the
Res. – 5-27-1974 Bureau of Highways for the fiscal year beginning July 1,
                   1974 and accepting all streets listed therein as being
                   streets which are part of the incorporated area of the city.
                   Authorizing and consenting to a sublease or assignment of
Res. – 1-14-1991 lease by the St. Walburg Monastery of Benedictine Sisters of
                   Covington, Kentucky to the County Ambulance Board.
                   Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-
93-5     6-28-1993 insurance, insurance and the investment of public funds as
                   set forth in the Interlocal Agreement to Establish the
                   KMRMA.
–      6-29-1993 Declaration of trust and trust participation agreement for
                   the Kentucky League of Cities Worker’s Compensation Trust.
                   Agreement between the Department of Local Government and the
–      - -1995   city for the purpose of promoting downtown development and
                   revitalization programs.
Res.               Authorizing the Mayor to execute a release fully releasing
2000-08  7-24-2000 the contract, lease and option by and between the Board of
                   Education and the Irvine Independent School District.
Res. 05-           Agreement communicated to the City of Richmond concerning
02       2-28-2005 the prohibition of transporting chemical weapons and/or
                   their agents within the City of Richmond.
                   Supporting a lease agreement on Lock 12 dam houses and
Res. – 2-13-2006 property between the County Fiscal Court and Kentucky River
                   Authority.
                   Adopting and approving the execution of a municipal aid co-
                   op program between the incorporated area and the state for
Res. – - -2009   the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2009 and accepting all
                   streets listed therein as being streets which are part of
                   the incorporated area of the city.
                   Approving and authorizing an assistance agreement with the
Res. – 7-13-2009 Kentucky Rural Water Finance Corporation for the purpose of
                   financing a construction project for the city.
                   Approving and authorizing the Mayor to enter into a sewer
Res. – 7-13-2009 contract with the County Water District for the purpose of
                   consolidating wastewater treatment and obtaining grant
                   funds.
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Annexing the following two tracts of land:
             Tract No. 1: Being a tract of land known as the county garage area and
             beginning at a P-K Nail in the center of Grindstone Branch Road; the nail
11-   11-11- being located approximately 2,200 feet east of the intersection of State
80-1  1980   Route 89 and Grindstone Branch Road.
             Tract No. 2: Being a tract of land known as Hickory Hills and beginning at a
             point in the centerline of Grindstone Branch Road, the point being a common
             corner to County Fiscal Court.
4-25- 4-25-  Annexing a certain 9.5 acres of real estate, beginning at a steel stake in
1983  1983   the southern right-of-way of Chestnut Stand Road at the east side of Turner
             Rawlins’ driveway.
6-13- 6-13-  Annexing a certain 9.5 acres of real estate, beginning at a steel stake in
83D   1983   the southern right-of-way of Chestnut Stand Road at the east side of Turner
             Rawlins’ driveway.
92-   - -    Annexing the property known as Northwood Site Plan, Phase II, containing
      1992   2.22 acres and Northwood Apartments, Phase II, containing 2.04 acres.
      11-23- Annexing an 8.74 acre tract of land beginning at a steel pin at the
92-5  1992   intersection of the north right-of-way line of Avery Hollow Road and the
             east right-of-way line of Kentucky Highway #89 (Irvine - Winchester Road).
1995- 7-28-  Annexing a tract of land containing 43.82 acres.
03    1995
      8-26-  Annexing a tract of land containing 37.59 acres, located along the north
19-04 2019   side of Kirkland Avenue (Kentucky Highway 1645), approximately one mile west
             of its intersection with Miller’s Creek Road (Kentucky Highway 1571).
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
–      - -         Creating a franchise for the generation, distribution and
                     transmission of electrical energy.
9-24-84A 9-24-1984   Creating a gas distribution franchise, defining the terms
                     and conditions and providing for bid procedure.
                     Granting to Jackson County RECC a franchise for the
91-3     - -1991     distribution of electric service within the city for a
                     period of 20 years.
                     Granting a franchise to Kentucky Utilities Company for the
                     generation, transmission and distribution of electrical
                     energy from points either within or without the corporate
–      11-22-1993  limits of this city, to all areas and parts of the city,
                     excepting only those areas or parts included within a
                     franchise heretofore granted by the city to Jackson County
                     Rural Electric Cooperative Corporation for a period of 20
                     years.
                     Creating a 20-year franchise for electric facilities and
13-04    7-22-2013   equipment along and across public roads, street, alleys
                     and other public places for furnishing electricity and
                     providing for sale of said franchise.
2015-(5) 10-12-2015  Creating a ten-year franchise for a communication system.
                     Creating a ten-year franchise for telecommunications
                     facilities and equipment along public roads, streets,
15-04    12-12-2015  alleys and other public places for furnishing
                     communication services and providing for sale of said
                     franchise.
16-(1)   2-22-2016   Accepting the bid of Windstream Kentucky East, LLC for a
                     telephone and communications franchise.
                     Creating a franchise with Kentucky Utilities Company for
23-06    5-8-2023    the erection, laying and maintenance of electric
                     facilities in the city.
 
 
TABLE V: STREET CLOSINGS
 
 
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             (1) Closing a ten-foot alley located between Broadway Street and River Drive
      2-27-  parallel to Sycamore Street and approximately 130 feet east of Sycamore
02-90 1990   Street.
             (2) Closing a 20-foot street known as Hodgkin Street located between Broadway
             and River Drive.
             (1) Closing a ten-foot alley located between Broadway Street and River Drive
      2-27-  parallel to Sycamore Street and approximately 130 feet east of Sycamore
4-90  1990   Street.
             (2) Closing a 20-foot street known as Hodgkin Street located between Broadway
             and River Drive.
1994- 3-24-  Closing an unnamed alley and/or street formerly known as Mill Street as shown
1     1994   by plat of record in Plat Cabinet 1, Slide 240, County Court Clerk’s Office.
1995- 7-10-  Closing part of an unnamed alley extending north from River Drive towards
4     1995   Broadway, between Hudson Avenue and Maple Avenue.
1998- 3-9-   Closing all of an unnamed alley extending in a generally southerly direction
02    1998   from Lilly Avenue to Short Street.
 
TABLE VI: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Rezoning as a B-3 area that territory within the city
–      11-22-1965  limits from the present existing line along the east side
                     of North Court Street to the north side of Marcum Street.
                     Rezoning that property located on the southwest corner of
                     River Drive and Kirkland Avenue and more particularly from
                     a point at the boundary of the property line of the
                     Consolidated Transportation System right-of-way and the
–      7-9-1990    west margin of Kirkland Avenue north to the south margin
                     of River Drive for a distance of 258 feet west along the
                     south margin of River Drive and from that point south to
                     the boundary of the right-of-way of Consolidated
                     Transportation System from Central Business District (B-1)
                     to Highway Business District (B-2).
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section                  Code Section
6.050                        32.43
6.955—6.975                33.04
Chapter 13A                  93.16
Chapter 13B                  93.20;
                             118.016
                             36.041;
15.520                       36.042;
                             36.043;
                             36.044
16.220                       72.057
Chapter 18A                  113.03
18A.225(2)                   113.03
18A.228                      113.03
Chapter 39A—39E            36.066
41.240(4)                    33.05
42.450—42.495              33.04
Chapter 45A                  34.26
Chapter 56                   34.26
Chapter 58                   35.23
Chapter 61                   32.16
61.373—61.377              36.184
61.394                       36.184
61.810                       38.076
61.823(2)—(4)              91.20
                             31.031;
                             34.27;
61.870—61.884              36.088;
                             38.073;
                             38.080
61.870(1)                    34.01
61.870(2)                    34.01
61.870(3)                    34.01
61.870(4)                    34.01
61.870(5)                    34.01
61.870(6)                    34.01
61.870(7)                    34.01
61.870(8)                    34.01
61.870(10)                   34.01
61.872—61.884              38.020
61.872(1)—(3)              34.15
61.872(4)                    34.16
61.872(5)                    34.17
61.872(6)                    34.18
61.874(1)                    34.22
61.874(2)                    34.22
61.874(3)                    34.23
61.874(4)                    34.23
61.874(5)                    34.24
61.874(6)                    34.25
61.878                       34.01
61.878(1)                    34.26
61.878(2)                    34.26
61.878(3)                    34.26
61.878(4)                    34.26
61.878(5)                    34.26
61.880                       34.19
61.880(1)                    34.26
61.884                       34.21
62.060                       31.004
65.003                       52.01
65.007                       35.21
65.067                       31.004
65.120                       Chapter 72
65.7701—65.7721            33.06
65A.010—65A.090            35.22
66.660                       91.06
67.083(7)                    95.01
68.100                       35.23
                             38.003;
82.082                       52.01;
                             56.018
82.605—82.640              72.057
                             31.015;
Chapter 83A                  32.02;
                             36.004;
                             36.043
83A.010(5)                   10.02
83A.010(6)                   10.02
83A.010(8)                   10.02
83A.030(1)                   30.02;
                             36.004
83A.040                      36.004
83A.040(1)                   31.016
83A.040(2)(a), (6)           31.016
83A.040(2)(c)                31.016
83A.040(2)(d)                31.016
83A.040(3)                   31.016
83A.040(4)                   32.01
83A.040(5)                   32.02
83A.040(6)                   32.02
83A.040(7)                   31.016;
                             32.02
83A.040(8)                   31.016;
                             32.02
83A.040(9)                   31.003;
                             36.004
83A.050                      31.015;
                             32.01
83A.050(2)                   36.004
83A.060                      95.01
83A.060(1)                   32.30
83A.060(2)                   32.31
83A.060(3)                   32.32
83A.060(4)                   32.33
83A.060(5)                   32.35
83A.060(6)                   32.17
83A.060(7)                   32.33
83A.060(8)                   32.36;
                             32.37
83A.060(9)                   32.38
83A.060(10)                  32.39
83A.060(11)                  32.40
83A.060(12)                  32.41
83A.060(13)                  32.41
83A.060(14)                  32.42
83A.060(15)                  32.43
83A.065                      10.99
83A.070                      31.002;
                             36.004
83A.070(1)                   31.002
83A.070(2)                   31.002
83A.070(3)                   31.002
83A.075                      31.002
                             31.030;
                             36.004;
83A.080                      36.027;
                             36.044;
                             38.004
83A.080(2), (3)              31.030
                             31.003;
83A.080(3)                   31.030;
                             36.004
83A.080(4)                   31.015
83A.080(5)                   31.015
83A.085                      31.031
83A.100                      36.0004
83A.130                      31.019;
                             36.004
83A.130(1)                   30.01
83A.130(2)                   30.02;
                             36.004
83A.130(3)                   31.016;
                             36.004
83A.130(4)                   31.016
83A.130(5)                   31.018;
                             32.15
83A.130(6)                   32.34
83A.130(7)                   31.016;
                             36.004
83A.130(8)                   31.016
83A.130(9)                   31.016
83A.130(10)                  31.016;
                             36.004
                             32.03;
83A.130(11)                  32.16;
                             36.004
83A.130(12)                  32.03
83A.130(13)                  32.03;
                             36.004
83A.130—83A.150            31.016
91.487(6)                    35.07
Chapter 91A                  33.04;
                             33.99
91A.010                      33.01
91A.010(8)                   10.02
91A.020                      33.02
91A.030                      33.03;
                             36.004
91A.040                      33.04;
                             33.99
91A.060                      33.05
91A.080(2)                   113.02
91A.080(3)                   113.03
91A.080(8)                   113.04;
                             113.05
91A.080(9)                   113.04
91A.200                      33.21
91A.210                      33.20
91A.220                      33.21
91A.230                      33.22
91A.240                      33.23
91A.250                      33.24
91A.260                      33.24
91A.270                      33.26
91A.280                      33.27
91A.290                      33.28
91A.350                      35.23
91A.350—91A.390            35.21;
                             35.23
91A.390(2)                   35.21
91A.400                      35.23
92.330                       35.23
92.810                       35.07
Chapter 100                  31.060;
                             152.01
100.133                      31.061
100.163                      31.066
Chapter 107                  33.21
Chapters 116—121           31.015
118.305(7)                   32.02
131.010(6)                   113.04
131.190                      34.26
132.285                      35.04
139.200                      93.17
Chapter 151                  152.04
151.250                      152.04,
                             152.05
Chapter 154                  34.26
154.30-050(2)(a)             35.23
154.30-050(2)(a)3.c.         35.23
174.100(1)                   91.20
174.100(2)                   91.21
174.100(3)                   91.22
174.100(4)                   91.23
174.100(5)                   91.24
174.100(6)                   91.25
174.100(7)                   91.25
178.290                      91.06
                             71.076;
186.020                      72.057;
                             92.02
186.043                      92.02
186.050                      71.076
186A.145                     72.057
186A.190                     72.057
Chapter 189                  71.075
189.020                      71.032
189.285                      73.02
189.287                      73.01
189.290                      71.030
189.292                      36.080
189.338                      70.20
189.450(5)                   72.003
189.450(6)                   72.003
189.580                      71.015
189.635(8)(b)1.a.—(8)(b)1.e34.01
189.725                      72.008
189.820                      71.073
189.930                      71.031
189.990                      70.20;
                             72.999
189.990(1)                   72.999
189.993(8)                   71.999
Chapter 198B                 150.03
198B.070                     150.03
217.900                      36.066
218A.010                     36.066
224.20-720                   71.076
224.1-010(30)                55.02
224.50-760                   55.02
Chapter 226                  112.29
226.010                      112.01;
                             112.06
226.030                      112.02
226.040                      112.03;
                             112.04
226.050                      112.04
226.070                      112.05
226.080                      112.06
226.090                      112.07
226.990                      112.99
227.330(6)                   93.17
227.700                      93.15
227.702                      93.15
227.704                      93.15
227.706                      93.15
227.708                      93.15
227.710                      93.16
227.715                      93.17
227.730                      93.19
227.750                      93.20
227.990(1)                   150.99
227.990(4)                   93.99
                             118.001;
                             118.002;
Chapters 241—244           118.015;
                             118.032;
                             118.137
241.010(50)                  118.089
241.030                      118.001
241.100                      118.015
241.160                      118.015;
                             118.135
241.170                      118.015
241.200                      118.044
Chapter 243                  118.091
243.030                      118.030
243.030—243.675            118.001
                             118.004;
243.070                      118.030;
                             118.041
243.075                      118.041
243.088                      118.047
243.230                      118.047
243.260                      118.031
243.280                      118.047
243.390                      118.037
243.440                      118.033
243.450                      118.039;
                             118.044
243.480                      118.137
243.480—243.590            118.137
243.490                      118.044
243.500                      118.044;
                             118.137
243.990(1)                   118.999
243.990(2)                   118.999
244.050                      118.091
244.080                      118.076
244.083                      118.063
244.085                      118.076
244.120                      118.089
244.130                      118.120
244.290                      118.060
244.480                      118.060
244.990(1)                   118.999
244.990(5)                   118.999
257.010(1)                   90.01
257.100(1)                   90.07
257.100(2)                   90.07
257.100(3)                   90.07
257.100(4)                   90.07
258.95(7)                    90.40
Chapter 281                  72.056
281.605(12)                  72.057
281.926                      72.057 
281.928                      72.057
281.928(1)                   72.057
281.932                      72.057
304.39-080                   71.074
318.990                      150.99
Chapter 335B                 36.029
335B.020                     36.203
Chapter 342                  36.151
342.610(4)                   36.066
342.640                      36.066
342.0011 et seq.             113.03
Chapter 344                  36.061
Chapter 350                  152.04
376.275                      72.057
382.107                      36.066
382.121                      36.066
382.205                      36.066
382.207                      36.066
382.209                      36.066
382.213                      36.066
382.307                      36.066
382.309                      36.066
                             32.38;
                             33.04;
Chapter 424                  33.24;
                             33.25;
                             118.035
424.110                      31.067;
                             31.086
424.120                      33.04
424.170                      118.035
424.220                      33.04
436.600                      90.05;
                             90.99
446.010(1)                   10.02
446.010(2)                   10.02
446.010(9)                   10.02
446.010(10)                  10.02
446.010(12)                  10.02
446.010(13)                  10.02
446.010(14)                  10.02
446.010(15)                  10.02
446.010(17)                  10.02
446.010(18)                  10.02
446.010(23)                  10.02
446.010(25)                  10.02
446.010(26)                  10.02
446.010(27)                  10.02
446.010(28)                  10.02
446.010(30)                  10.02
446.010(31)                  10.02
446.010(33)                  10.02
446.010(37)                  10.02
446.010(39)                  10.02
446.010(43)                  10.02
446.010(46)                  10.02
446.010(47)                  10.02
446.010(49)                  10.02
446.010(55)                  10.02
446.020(1)                   10.03
446.020(2)                   10.03
446.030                      10.04
446.050                      10.05
446.060                      10.06
446.080(1)                   10.03
446.080(3)                   10.03
446.080(4)                   10.03
446.090                      10.07
446.100                      10.08
446.110                      10.09
446.140                      10.01
Chapter 500 et seq.          35.99
512.020—512.040            50.005
525.125                      90.03;
                             90.04
                             90.03;
525.130                      90.04;
                             90.99
525.135                      90.04;
                             90.99
534.040(2)(c)                10.99
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
 
Prior Code Section 2023 Code Section
Prior Code Section       2023 Code Section
10.01                    10.01
10.02                    10.02
10.03                    10.03
10.04                    10.04
10.05                    10.05
10.06                    10.06
10.07                    10.07
10.08                    10.08
10.09                    10.09
10.10                    10.10
10.11                    10.11
10.12                    10.12
10.13                    10.13
10.14                    10.14
10.15                    10.15
10.16                    10.16
10.17                    10.17
10.18                    10.18
10.99                    10.99
30.01                    30.01
30.02                    30.02
31.01                    31.001
31.02                    31.002
31.03                    31.003
31.04                    31.004
31.15                    31.015
31.16                    31.016
31.17                    31.017
31.18                    31.018
31.19                    31.019
31.30                    31.030
31.31                    31.031
31.32                    31.032
31.33                    31.033
31.45                    31.045
32.01                    32.01
32.02                    32.02
32.03                    32.03
32.15                    32.15
32.16                    32.16
32.17                    32.17
32.30                    32.30
32.31                    32.31
32.32                    32.32
32.33                    32.33
32.34                    32.34
32.35                    32.35
32.36                    32.36
32.37                    32.37
32.38                    32.38
32.39                    32.39
32.40                    32.40
32.41                    32.41
32.42                    32.42
32.43                    32.43
33.01                    33.01
33.02                    33.02
33.03                    33.03
33.04                    33.04;
                         33.99
33.05                    33.05
33.06                    33.06
33.20                    33.20
33.21                    33.21
33.22                    33.22
33.23                    33.23
33.24                    33.24
33.25                    33.25
33.26                    33.26
33.27                    33.27
33.28                    33.28
34.01                    34.01
34.15                    34.15
34.16                    34.16
34.17                    34.17
34.18                    34.18
34.19                    34.19
34.20                    34.20
34.21                    34.21
34.22                    34.22
34.23                    34.23
34.24                    34.24
34.25                    34.25
34.26                    34.26
34.27                    34.27
35.01                    35.01
35.02                    35.02
35.03                    35.03
35.04                    35.04
35.05                    35.05
35.06                    35.06
35.07                    35.07
35.08                    35.08
37.01                    37.01
37.02                    37.02
37.15                    37.15
37.16                    37.16
37.17                    37.17
37.18                    37.18
37.19                    37.19
37.20                    37.20
37.21                    37.21
37.22                    37.22
37.23                    37.23
37.24                    37.24
37.25                    37.25
37.26                    37.26
37.27                    37.27
37.28                    37.28
37.29                    37.29
37.30                    37.30
37.31                    37.31
37.32                    37.32
37.33                    37.33
37.34                    37.34
37.35                    37.35
37.36                    37.36
37.37                    37.37
37.38                    37.38
37.39                    37.39
37.40                    37.40
37.41                    37.41
37.42                    37.42
37.43                    37.43
37.44                    37.44
37.45                    37.45
37.46                    37.46
37.47                    37.47
37.48                    37.48
37.49                    37.49
37.50                    37.50
37.51                    37.51
37.52                    37.52
37.53                    37.53
37.54                    37.54
37.55                    37.55
37.56                    37.56
37.57                    37.57
37.58                    37.58
37.59                    37.59
37.60                    37.60
37.61                    37.61
37.62                    37.62
37.99                    37.99
38.001                   38.001
38.002                   38.002
38.003                   38.003
38.004                   38.004
38.015                   38.015
38.016                   38.016
38.017                   38.017
38.018                   38.018
38.019                   38.019
38.020                   38.020
38.021                   38.021
38.022                   38.022
38.035                   38.035
38.036                   38.036
38.037                   38.037
38.038                   38.038
38.039                   38.039
38.040                   38.040
38.055                   38.055
38.070                   38.070
38.071                   38.071
38.072                   38.072
38.073                   38.073
38.074                   38.074
38.075                   38.075
38.076                   38.076
38.077                   38.077
38.078                   38.078
38.079                   38.079
38.080                   38.080
38.999                   38.999
39.01                    39.01
39.15                    39.15
50.001                   50.001
50.002                   50.002
50.003                   50.003
50.004                   50.004
50.005                   50.005
50.020                   50.020
50.021                   50.021
50.022                   50.022
50.023                   50.023
50.024                   50.024
50.025                   50.025
50.026                   50.026
50.027                   50.027
50.040                   50.040
50.041                   50.041
50.042                   50.042
50.043                   50.043
50.044                   50.044
50.045                   50.045
50.060                   50.060
50.061                   50.061
50.062                   50.062
50.063                   50.063
50.064                   50.064
50.065                   50.065
50.066                   50.066
50.067                   50.067
50.068                   50.068
50.080                   50.080
50.081                   50.081
50.082                   50.082
50.095                   50.095
50.096                   50.096
50.097                   50.097
50.110                   50.110
50.111                   50.111
50.999                   50.999
51.01                    51.01
51.02                    51.02
51.03                    51.03
51.04                    51.04
51.05                    51.05
52.01                    52.01
52.02                    52.02
52.03                    52.03
53.01                    53.01
53.02                    53.02
53.03                    53.03
53.04                    53.04
53.05                    53.05
53.06                    53.06
53.07                    53.07
53.99                    53.99
54.01                    54.01
54.02                    54.02
54.03                    54.03
54.04                    54.04
54.05                    54.05
54.06                    54.06
54.20                    54.20
54.21                    54.21
54.22                    54.22
54.23                    54.23
54.24                    54.24
54.25                    54.25
54.26                    54.26
54.27                    54.27
55.01                    55.01
55.02                    55.02
55.99                    55.99
56.001                   56.001
56.002                   56.002
56.003                   56.003
56.004                   56.004
56.010                   56.015
56.011                   56.016
56.012                   56.017
56.013                   56.018
56.014                   56.019
56.015                   56.020
56.025                   56.035
56.026                   56.036
56.027                   56.037
56.028                   56.038
56.035                   56.050
56.036                   56.051
56.045                   56.065
56.046                   56.066
56.047                   56.067
56.048                   56.068
56.055                   56.080
56.056                   56.081
56.057                   56.082
56.058                   56.083
56.059                   56.084
56.060                   56.085
56.061                   56.086
56.062                   56.087
56.063                   56.088
56.064                   56.088
56.065                   56.090
56.066                   56.091
56.067                   56.092
56.075                   56.105
56.076                   56.106
56.080                   56.120
56.085                   56.135
56.090                   56.150
56.091                   56.151
56.092                   56.152
56.093                   56.153
56.094                   56.154
56.095                   56.155
56.096                   56.156
56.097                   56.157
56.105                   56.170
56.106                   56.999
56.107                   56.999
56.108                   56.171
56.115                   56.185
56.116                   56.186
56.117                   56.187
56.125                   56.200
70.01                    70.01
70.02                    70.02
70.03                    70.03
70.04                    70.04
70.05                    70.05
70.20                    70.20
70.21                    70.21
70.22                    70.22
70.23                    70.23
70.24                    70.24
70.25                    70.25
70.26                    70.26
70.99                    70.99
71.001                   71.001
71.002                   71.002
71.003                   71.003
71.004                   71.004
71.015                   71.015
71.016                   71.016
71.030                   71.030
71.031                   71.031
71.032                   71.032
71.045                   71.045
71.046                   71.046
71.047                   71.047
71.048                   71.048
71.049                   71.049
71.050                   71.050
71.051                   71.051
71.052                   71.052
71.053                   71.053
71.054                   71.054
71.055                   71.055
71.056                   71.056
71.070                   71.070
71.071                   71.071
71.072                   71.072
71.073                   71.073
71.074                   71.074
71.075                   71.075
71.076                   71.076
71.077                   71.077
71.078                   71.078
71.999                   71.999
72.001                   72.001
72.002                   72.002
72.003                   72.003
72.004                   72.004
72.005                   72.005
72.006                   72.006
72.007                   72.007
72.008                   72.008
72.009                   72.009
72.010                   72.010
72.011                   72.011
72.012                   72.012
72.013                   72.013
72.014                   72.014
72.015                   72.015
72.016                   72.016
72.030                   72.030
72.031                   72.031
72.032                   72.032
72.033                   72.033
72.034                   72.034
72.035                   72.035
72.036                   72.036
72.037                   72.037
72.038                   72.038
72.039                   72.039
72.040                   72.040
72.041                   72.041
72.055                   72.055
72.056                   72.056
72.057                   72.057
72.070                   72.070
72.071                   72.071
72.072                   72.072
72.999                   72.999
73.01                    73.01
73.02                    73.02
73.03                    73.03
73.04                    73.04
73.99                    73.99
Chapter 74, Schedule I   Chapter 75, Schedule I
Chapter 74, Schedule II  Chapter 75, Schedule II
Chapter 74, Schedule III Chapter 75, Schedule III
Chapter 74, Schedule IV  Chapter 75, Schedule IV
Chapter 75, Schedule I   Chapter 74, Schedule I
90.01                    90.01
90.02                    90.02
90.03                    90.03
90.04                    90.04
90.05                    90.05
90.06                    90.06
90.07                    90.07
90.20                    90.20
90.21                    90.21
90.22                    90.22
90.23                    90.23
90.24                    90.24
90.25                    90.25
90.26                    90.26
90.27                    90.27
90.40                    90.40
90.41                    90.41
90.42                    90.42
90.43                    90.43
90.44                    90.44
90.45                    90.45
90.55                    91.55
90.56                    91.56
90.57                    91.57
90.58                    91.58
90.59                    91.59
90.60                    90.60
90.61                    90.61
90.62                    90.62
90.63                    90.63
90.64                    90.64
90.99                    90.99
91.01                    91.01
91.02                    91.02
91.03                    91.03
91.04                    91.04
91.05                    91.05
91.06                    91.06
91.25                    91.25
91.40                    91.40
91.41                    91.41
91.42                    91.42
91.43                    91.43
91.44                    91.44
91.99                    91.99
92.01                    92.01
92.02                    92.02
92.03                    92.03
92.04                    92.04
92.05                    92.05
92.06                    92.06
92.20                    92.20
92.35                    92.35
92.36                    92.36
92.37                    92.37
92.38                    92.38
92.39                    92.39
92.40                    92.40
92.55                    92.55
92.56                    92.56
92.99                    92.99
93.01                    93.01
93.02                    93.02
93.15                    93.15
93.16                    93.16
93.18                    93.18
93.19                    93.19
93.20                    93.20
93.30                    93.35
93.31                    93.36
93.99                    93.99
94.01                    94.01
94.02                    94.02
94.03                    94.03
94.04                    94.04
94.05                    94.05
94.06                    94.06
94.07                    94.07
94.08                    94.08
94.09                    94.09
94.10                    94.10
94.11                    94.11
94.12                    94.12
94.13                    94.13
94.99                    94.99
95.01                    95.01
95.02                    95.02
95.03                    95.03
95.04                    95.04
95.05                    95.05
95.06                    95.06
95.07                    95.07
95.08                    95.08
95.99                    95.99
110.01                   110.01
110.02                   110.02
110.03                   110.03
110.04                   110.04
110.05                   110.05
110.06                   110.06
110.07                   110.07
110.08                   110.08
110.09                   110.09
110.10                   110.10
110.11                   110.11
110.12                   110.12
110.13                   110.13
110.99                   110.99
111.01                   111.01
111.02                   111.02
111.03                   111.03
111.04                   111.04
111.05                   111.05
111.06                   111.06
111.07                   111.07
111.08                   111.08
111.99                   111.99
112.01                   112.01
112.02                   112.02
112.03                   112.03
112.04                   112.04
112.05                   112.05
112.06                   112.06
112.07                   112.07
112.08                   112.08
112.09                   112.09
112.10                   112.10
112.11                   112.11
112.12                   112.12
112.13                   112.13
112.20                   112.25
112.21                   112.26
112.22                   112.27
112.23                   112.28
112.24                   112.29
112.25                   112.30
112.26                   112.31
112.27                   112.32
112.28                   112.33
112.29                   112.34
112.30                   112.35
112.99                   112.99
113.01                   113.01
113.02                   113.02
113.03                   113.03
113.04                   113.04
113.05                   113.05
114.01                   114.01
114.02                   114.02
114.03                   114.03
114.99                   114.99
115.01                   115.01
115.02                   115.02
115.99                   115.99
116.01                   116.01
116.02                   116.02
116.03                   116.03
116.04                   116.04
116.05                   116.05
116.06                   116.06
116.07                   116.07
116.08                   116.08
116.99                   116.99
117.01                   117.01
117.02                   117.02
117.03                   117.03
117.04                   117.04
117.05                   117.05
117.99                   117.99
118.01                   118.001
118.02                   118.002
118.03                   118.003
118.04                   118.004
118.10                   118.015
118.11                   118.016
118.20                   118.030
118.21                   118.031
118.22                   118.032
118.23                   118.033
118.24                   118.034
118.25                   118.035
118.26                   118.036
118.27                   118.037
118.28                   118.038
118.29                   118.039
118.30                   118.040
118.31                   118.041
118.32                   118.042
118.33                   118.043
118.34                   118.044
118.35                   118.045
118.36                   118.046
118.37                   118.047
118.38                   118.048
118.40                   118.060
118.41                   118.061
118.42                   118.062
118.43                   118.063
118.50                   118.075
118.51                   118.076
118.52                   118.077
118.53                   118.078
118.54                   118.079
118.55                   118.080
118.56                   118.081
118.57                   118.082
118.58                   118.083
118.59                   118.084
118.60                   118.085
118.61                   118.086
118.62                   118.087
118.63                   118.088
118.64                   118.089
118.65                   118.090
118.66                   118.091
118.67                   118.092
118.70                   118.105
118.80                   118.120
118.90                   118.135
118.91                   118.136
118.92                   118.137
118.99                   118.999
130.01                   130.01
130.02                   130.02
130.03                   130.03
130.04                   130.04
130.99                   130.99
150.01                   150.01
150.02                   150.02
150.03                   150.03
150.04                   150.04
150.05                   150.05
150.15                   150.20
150.99                   150.99
151.01                   151.01
151.02                   151.02
152.01                   152.01
152.02                   152.02
152.03                   152.03
152.04                   152.04
152.05                   152.05
152.06                   152.06
152.07                   152.07
152.08                   152.08
152.09                   152.09
152.10                   152.10
152.11                   152.11
152.12                   152.12
152.13                   152.13
152.40                   152.25
152.41                   152.26
152.42                   152.27
152.43                   152.28
152.44                   152.29
152.45                   152.30
152.46                   152.31
152.55                   152.45
152.56                   152.46
152.57                   152.47
152.58                   152.48
152.99                   152.99
153.01                   153.01
154.01                   154.01
154.02                   154.02
154.03                   154.03
154.04                   154.04
154.98                   154.05
154.99                   154.99
155.01                   155.01
155.02                   155.02
155.03                   155.03
155.04                   155.04
155.98                   155.05
155.99                   155.99
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
-         - -         TSO Table II
-         5-27-1974   TSO Table II
-         6-2-1975    150.20
                      37.15—
-         5-27-1986   37.62;
                      37.99
-         1-14-1991   TSO Table II
-         1-10-1994   TSO Table I
1997-05-1 5-12-1997   39.01
2000-08   7-24-2000   TSO Table II
2002-     11- -2002   153.01
05-02     2-28-2005   TSO Table II
-         2-13-2006   TSO Table II
-         - -2009     TSO Table II
-         7-13-2009   TSO Table II
-         7-27-2009   153.01
19-03     7-8-2019    153.01
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
-          - -         TSO Table IV
-          - -         54.20—
                       54.27
                       116.01—
-          - -         116.08;
                       116.99
                       114.01—
02-2002    - -         114.03;
                       114.99
08         - -         51.02
                       115.01;
8-9-82     - -         115.02;
                       115.99
-          7-12-1962   31.045
                       31.045;
-          4-13-1964   93.02;
                       93.99
-          6-28-1965   Chapter 75, Schedule IV
-          9-27-1965   93.01
-          11-22-1965  TSO Table VI
-          12-11-1967  31.045
-          6- -1970    153.01
-          8-23-1971   71.999;
                       Chapter 75, Schedule III
                       114.01—
8-72       8-28-1972   114.03;
                       114.99
4-79       4-23-1979   Chapter 74, Schedule I;
                       Chapter 75, Schedule II
                       72.035—
7-79-1     9-10-1979   72.041;
                       72.999;
                       Chapter 75, Schedule I
7-79-2     9-10-1979   72.016;
                       72.999
10-79      10-22-1979  92.06;
                       92.99
6-80       6-9-1980    37.01
80-10-27   10-27-1980  72.013
11-80-1    11-11-1980  TSO Table III
7-81-2     - -1981     51.04
2-81-1     3-9-1981    TSO Table I
                       51.02;
7-81-2     8-13-1981   51.03;
                       51.04;
                       51.05
-          11-9-1981   150.01
                       50.001—
                       50.005;
                       50.020—
                       50.027;
                       50.040—
                       50.045;
                       50.060—
6-24-82    6-14-1982   50.068;
                       50.080—
                       50.082;
                       50.095—
                       50.097;
                       50.110;
                       50.111;
                       50.999
4-25-1983  4-25-1983   TSO Table III
6-13-83D   6-13-1983   TSO Table III
6-13-83C   6-27-1983   TSO Table I
12-12-83   12-12-1983  TSO Table I
-          4-8-1984    37.02
9-24-84A   9-24-1984   TSO Table IV
                       110.01—
-          11-24-1986  110.13;
                       110.99
-          1-25-1988   153.01
-          1-19-1990   72.030—
                       72.034
90-2       1-19-1990   Chapter 75, Schedule I
02-90      2-27-1990   TSO Table V
4-90       2-27-1990   TSO Table V
                       114.01—
3-90       3-27-1990   114.03;
                       114.99;
                       151.02
-          7-9-1990    153.01;
                       TSO Table VI
91-1       - -1991     51.02;
                       51.03
91-3       - -1991     TSO Table IV
-          1-28-1991   150.04
91-2       4-29-1991   51.01—
                       51.05
                       72.014;
91-7       8-12-1991   72.030—
                       72.034;
                       72.999
91-8       12-9-1991   110.07
91-9       12-9-1991   31.018
92-        - -1992     TSO Table III
                       152.01—
                       152.10;
                       152.25—
92-1       - -1992     152.29;
                       152.46;
                       152.48;
                       152.99
92-4       10-17-1992  51.01—
                       51.05
92-5       11-23-1992  TSO Table III
                       91.55—
93-        - -1993     91.59;
                       91.99
93-2       5-10-1993   151.01
93-3       6-14-1993   31.032
93-5       6-28-1993   TSO Table II
-          6-29-1993   TSO Table II
-          11-22-1993  TSO Table IV
1994-1     3-24-1994   TSO Table V
-          10-10-1994  92.02;
                       92.99
                       92.01;
                       92.03—
                       92.05;
94-4       10-10-1994  92.20;
                       92.35—
                       92.40;
                       92.55;
                       92.56
                       38.001—
                       38.004;
                       38.015—
                       38.022;
1994-6     12-12-1994  38.035—
                       38.040;
                       38.055;
                       38.070—
                       38.080;
                       38.999
-          - -1995     TSO Table II
1995-4     7-10-1995   TSO Table V
1995-03    7-28-1995   TSO Table III
1996-07    - -1996     TSO Table I
96-04      7-22-1996   54.01—
                       54.06
1996-05    8-12-1996   91.44
                       94.01—
1996-10    12-9-1996   94.13;
                       94.99
                       55.01;
1997-04    8-11-1997   55.02;
                       55.99
1998-02    3-9-1998    TSO Table V
1999-06    7-15-1999   37.01
                       53.01—
1999-09    9-13-1999   53.07;
                       53.99
1999-11    11-22-1999  153.01
                       90.40—
00-06      7-10-2000   90.45;
                       90.99
                       90.60—
00-02      8-28-2000   90.63;
                       90.99
02-04      4-23-2001   72.015;
                       72.999
05-01      6-11-2001   153.01
03-07      7-14-2003   51.02;
                       51.04
03-10      10-27-2003  31.019
04-10      9-13-2004   31.033
05-01      5-23-2005   39.15
-          11-28-2005  113.01—
                       113.05
06-01      2-13-2006   110.13
-          6-12-2006   33.06
-          11-24-2008  51.02;
                       51.04
-          - -2009     110.13
51.03      2-23-2009   51.03
                       71.070—
09-        6-8-2009    71.078;
                       71.999
-          7-13-2009   52.01—
                       52.03
-          7-20-2009   51.02;
                       51.04
-          7-27-2009   153.01
10-75      1-25-2010   71.072
                       155.01—
94         12-13-2010  155.05;
                       155.99
                       152.01—
                       152.13;
                       152.25—
154        1-24-2011   152.31;
                       152.45—
                       152.48;
                       152.99
2011-08    8-22-2011   35.01—
                       35.09
                       112.01—
11-01      11-14-2011  112.13;
                       112.99
                       112.25—
11-02      11-14-2011  112.35;
                       112.99
                       95.01—
11-10      11-14-2011  95.08;
                       95.99
                       95.01—
11-2011    11-14-2011  95.08;
                       95.99
                       154.01—
11-12      1-23-2012   154.05;
                       154.99
                       130.01—
19-01      2-12-2012   130.04;
                       130.99
13-04      7-22-2013   TSO Table IV
                       118.001—
                       118.004;
                       118.015;
                       118.016;
                       118.030—
                       118.048;
                       118.060—
2013-12    12-2-2013   118.063;
                       118.075—
                       118.092;
                       118.105;
                       118.120;
                       118.135—
                       118.137;
                       118.999
                       117.01—
11-03      3-10-2014   117.05;
                       117.99
                       56.001—
                       56.004;
                       56.015—
                       56.020;
                       56.035—
                       56.038;
                       56.050;
                       56.051;
                       56.065—
                       56.068;
                       56.080—
2011-52-02 1-12-2015   56.092;
                       56.105;
                       56.106;
                       56.120;
                       56.135;
                       56.150—
                       56.157;
                       56.170;
                       56.171;
                       56.185—
                       56.187;
                       56.200;
                       56.999
                       56.001—
                       56.004;
                       56.015—
                       56.020;
                       56.035—
                       56.038;
                       56.050;
                       56.051;
                       56.065—
                       56.068;
                       56.080—
2014-01    1-12-2015   56.092;
                       56.105;
                       56.106;
                       56.120;
                       56.135;
                       56.150—
                       56.157;
                       56.170;
                       56.171;
                       56.185—
                       56.187;
                       56.200;
                       56.999
15-03      6-22-2015   150.05
2015-(5)   10-12-2015  TSO Table IV
15-04      12-12-2015  TSO Table IV
16-02      2-8-2016    118.060
16-(1)     2-22-2016   TSO Table IV
17-03      3-13-2017   51.02;
                       51.04
                       35.20—
2018-02    8-20-2018   35.23;
                       35.99
                       35.05;
18-03      8-27-2018   35.08;
                       35.09
19-03      7-8-2019    153.01
19-04      8-26-2019   TSO Table III
20-03      11-9-2020   90.64
                       35.05;
21-8       8-16-2021   35.08;
                       35.09
21-09      1-11-2022   150.06;
                       150.21
                       119.01—
22-05      6-13-2022   119.11;
                       119.99
                       35.05;
23-03      8-22-2022   35.08;
                       35.09
23-04      11-28-2022  110.13
                       31.060—
24-02      - -2023     31.069;
                       31.080—
                       31.086
23-06      5-8-2023    TSO Table IV
24-03      2-12-2024   31.031
24-04      2-12-2024   31.045
24-05      2-12-2024   35.08
24-06      2-12-2024   37.02
24-08      2-12-2024   37.51
24-09      2-12-2024   37.62
24-10      2-12-2024   51.02
24-11      2-12-2024   51.03
                       56.051;
                       56.066;
                       56.080;
24-12      2-12-2024   56.091;
                       56.092;
                       56.152;
                       56.157
24-13      2-12-2024   71.071
24-14      2-12-2024   Chapter 74, Schedule I
                       Chapter 75, Schedule I;
24-15      2-12-2024   Chapter 75, Schedule II;
                       Chapter 75, Schedule III
24-16      2-12-2024   90.40
24-07      3-11-2024   37.38
                      
 
