JESSAMINE COUNTY, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-12 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 4-16-2024; and
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
OFFICIALS
Judge/Executive
David K. West
Magistrate
Tim Vaughan
Gary Morgan
Justin Ray
Terry Meckstroth
Kent Slusher
Adam Teater
Attorney
Brian Goettl
Clerk
Johnny Collier
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE COUNTY OF JESSAMINE,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE COUNTY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THIS CODE.
WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the County of Jessamine are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the County; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky empower
and authorize the Legislative Body of this County to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate the
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the County of Jessamine has authorized a
general compilation, revision, and codification of the ordinances of the County
of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book
form;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the County of
Jessamine that:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the County of Jessamine as herein revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the County of Jessamine.”
Section 2. The Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles:
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of the Code, except
as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in the Code or except
those ordinances adopted after the compilation of ordinances began for the code
of ordinances; provided that such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of the
Code, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes,
appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises
or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements,
authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the
purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements
or plats, accepting dedications of land to public use, vacating or setting the
boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any
other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4. The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the County Legislative Body and the Clerk of the County of
Jessamine is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code in the
Office of the County Clerk.
Section 5. The Code shall be in full force and effect from and after its date
of passage, approval and publication as required by law. The Code shall be
presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained, and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved, and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
Passed this 16th day of January, 2007.
William Neal Cassity /s/
County Judge/Executive
ATTEST:
Eva L. McDaniel /s/
Fiscal Court Clerk
2011 S-4
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
JESSAMINE COUNTY FISCAL COURT, JESSAMINE COUNTY, KENTUCKY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2011 S-4 Jessamine County supplement to the Code of Ordinances of
Jessamine County, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
WHEREAS, it is the intent of Fiscal Court to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Jessamine County Fiscal Court:
Section 1. That the 2011 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Jessamine County Fiscal Court, Jessamine County, Kentucky as submitted by
American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be
and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after
its date of passage, approval and publication by law.
Passed this first day of November, 2011.
Wm. Neal Cassity
Jessamine County Judge/Executive
ATTEST:
                                    
County Clerk
2012 S-5
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE COUNTY OF JESSAMINE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2012 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the County of
Jessamine, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the County of Jessamine:
   Section 1. That the S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the County
of Jessamine, Kentucky as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 19th day of November, 2013.
County Judge/Executive
ATTEST:
                                    
Fiscal Court Clerk
2014 S-6
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE COUNTY OF JESSAMINE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2014 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the County of
Jessamine, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the County of Jessamine:
   Section 1. That the 2014 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
County of Jessamine, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 16th day of December, 2014.
1st Reading   - November 18, 2014
2nd Reading   - December 16, 2014
                                                   
County Judge/Executive
ATTEST:
                                                  
Fiscal Court Clerk
2016 S-7
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE
COUNTY OF JESSAMINE, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2016 S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the County of
Jessamine, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Jessamine County Fiscal Court to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the County of Jessamine:
   SECTION 1.   That the 2016 S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of
Jessamine County, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed on first reading this 18th day of October, 2016.
1st Reading - September 20, 2016
2nd Reading - October 6, 2016
 
David K West \s\
Jessamine County Judge/Executive
ATTEST:
 
Johnny Collier \s\
Jessamine County Clerk
2018 S-8
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE
COUNTY OF JESSAMINE, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2018 S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the County of
Jessamine, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Jessamine County Fiscal Court to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the County of Jessamine:
   SECTION 1.   That the 2018 S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of
Jessamine County, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
 
                                                         
Jessamine County Judge/Executive
ATTEST:
 
                                                         
Fiscal Court Clerk
 
1st Reading - October 2, 2018
2nd Reading - October 30, 2016
2019 S-9
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE COUNTY OF JESSAMINE, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2019 S-9 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the County
Jessamine, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Jessamine County Fiscal Court to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the County of Jessamine:
   SECTION 1.   That the 2019 S-9 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
County Jessamine, Kentucky as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 29th day of October, 2019.
David K West \s\   
Jessamine County Judge/Executive
ATTEST:
 Johnny Collier \s\  
Jessamine County Clerk
1st Reading - October 1, 2019
2nd Reading - October 17, 2019
2022 S-10
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE COUNTY OF JESSAMINE KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the S-10 Supplement and S-10 Replacement Pages to the Code of
Ordinances of the County of Jessamine which supplement contains all ordinances
of a general nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the County of Jessamine.
   SECTION 1. That the S-10 Supplement and S-10 Replacement Pages to the Code
of Ordinances of the County of Jessamine, Kentucky, as submitted by American
Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the
same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 21st day of June, 2022.
 
                                                          
County Judge/Executive
ATTEST:
                                                          
Fiscal Court Clerk
1st Reading - 4/19/22
2nd Reading - 6/21/22
2024 S-12
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE COUNTY OF JESSAMINE, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the S-11 Supplement and S-11 Replacement Pages to the Code of
Ordinances of the County of Jessamine which supplement contains all ordinances
of a general nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the County of Jessamine.
   SECTION 1. That the S-11 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the County
of Jessamine, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 7th day of February, 2023.
                                                          
County Judge/Executive
ATTEST:
                                                          
Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for Jessamine County shall be
designated as the Code of Jessamine County and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
Statutory reference:
   Construction of statutes, see KRS Ch. 446
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Specific definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   AVIS. The Automated Vehicle Information System established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect tilting and registration information on
vehicles and boat and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards. (446.010(55))
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This county code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
   COUNTY. Jessamine County, Kentucky.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this county unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this county shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in 1 section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this county exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express that intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this county for the transaction of all county
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the Fiscal Court requiring publication shall take
effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise expressly
provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the Fiscal Court shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This county shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
31.   EMERGENCY SERVICES
         
32.   EMERGENCY PROVISIONS
         
33.   CODE OF ETHICS
         
34.   INVESTMENT POLICY
         
35.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Electioneering
   
30.01   Prohibition; restrictions
   
30.02   Enforcement
   
30.03   Designation as nonpublic location
Economic Development
   
30.15   Industrial Economic Development Authority
Procurement Policy
   
30.20   Procurement policy
 
   
30.99   Penalty
ELECTIONEERING
§ 30.01 PROHIBITION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   To fulfill the government's obligation to protect the voter and the
integrity of the election process from actual or attempted fraud; from
obstruction; from intimidation real or inferred; from attempted or actual vote
buying; from invasion of privacy; from harassment, real, threatened or implied;
and from hindrance or delay, all done under the disguise of electioneering, an
electioneering-free zone is hereby established within 300 feet of the entrance
to any building containing a polling place on any election day. No person
shall, on the day of any election as established in KRS 118.025, intentionally
invade the right of privacy of any person on his or her way to vote, or cause
interference, harassment or alarm to any person on his or her way to vote. No
person shall loiter or congregate in, or hinder or delay a voter, or solicit or
attempt to influence any voter in casting his or her vote within this 300-foot
campaign-free zone.
   (B)   Electioneering shall include the displaying of signs, the distribution
of campaign literature, cards or handbills, the soliciting of signatures to any
petition, or the solicitation of votes for or against any political party,
candidate or question on the ballot in any manner.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit electioneering
conducted within the interior of a private residence or business establishment
by persons having a leased or ownership interest in the property, within the
campaign-free zone, provided that all electioneering activities are confined to
the interior of the buildings and cannot be heard or observed by any voters
going to the polling place. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
displaying of political signs on private property or private establishment
within the campaign-free zone, regardless of the distance from the polling
place, provided that the sign is not accompanied by a person and does not emit
any sound and is not audio-visual or mechanical and no larger than 4 square
feet in size.
(Ord. 04-31, passed 10-5-2004) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any precinct election officer, County Clerk, Deputy County Clerk or any law
enforcement official may enforce this subchapter at the polls within 300 feet
of the main entrance to the building used by voters in which the voting machine
is located. Assistance may be requested of any law enforcement officer.
(Ord. 04-31, passed 10-5-2004)
§ 30.03 DESIGNATION AS NONPUBLIC LOCATION.
   Any property used for a polling location on election day shall not be
considered a public place in any manner for public disclosure. The grounds,
buildings, sidewalks and parking lots at all polling locations are designated
nonpublic forums for the election day.
(Ord. 04-31, passed 10-5-2004)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
§ 30.15 INDUSTRIAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   A joint non-profit Industrial Development Authority to be established with
the city of Nicholasville as joint creators of the Authority and said Authority
shall be a body politic and corporate with the usual corporate attributes, and
in its corporate name may sue and be sued, contract and be contracted with and
do all things reasonable or necessary to effectively carry out the duties
prescribed by KRS 154.50 - 020 to 154.50.346. The Joint Industrial Development
Authority (non-profit) is established with the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   The City of Nicholasville enact an ordinance agreeing to the
establishment of this non-profit Joint Industrial Development Authority.
   (B)   The City of Nicholasville execute a written agreement with the
Jessamine County Fiscal Court and the created Industrial Development Authority
that the Authority may be dissolved and upon such complete termination, all
funds, property, and other assets held by the Industrial Development Authority
shall be returned to the City of Nicholasville and Jessamine County Fiscal
Court in the same proportion as contributions of funds, property and other
assets were made by such city and county.
   (C)   Six members of the Authority shall serve for a term of 4 years each,
and until their successors are appointed or qualified with initial appointments
to be made so that: (1) 2 members are appointed for 2 years (2) 2 members are
appointed for 3 years and (3) 2 members are appointed for 4 years. No members
shall be appointed for 2 successive terms. Jessamine County Judge Executive
shall appoint 3 members of the Authority (1 member for a 2-year term; 1 member
for a 3-year term and 1 member for a 4-year term). The mayor of Nicholasville
shall appoint 3 members of the authority (1 member for a 2-year term; 1 member
for a 3-year term and 1 member for a 4-year term). Upon expiration of these
staggered terms, Successors shall be appointed by the appointing authorities
for terms of 4 years.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2009)
PROCUREMENT POLICY
§ 30.20 PROCUREMENT POLICY.
   The Jessamine County Fiscal Court desires to make all purchases and
contracts in a transparent and competitive manner that represents the interest
of the Jessamine County taxpayer. To achieve this, the Fiscal Court adopted the
Kentucky Local Government Model Procurement Code, KRS 45A.343 through 45A.460
as defined in KRS 45A.010 Purposes and Policies at their August 20, 2019
meeting. The Jessamine County Fiscal Court will make all contracts, leases, or
other agreements for the purchase of materials, supplies, or contractual
services in conformance with the provisions of the Model Procurement Code.
   (A)   Purchasing authority. Unless otherwise provided for in this policy,
the supervisor, or designee, shall have the authority to purchase or lease
products or services within the budget adopted while adhering to the Jessamine
County Procurement Policy. All procurement expenditures are subject to audit.
Supervisors must sign-off on all single item purchases over $250. The County
Judge/Executive or representative must sign-off on all purchases over $1,000.
   (B)   Purchases exceeding $40,000. As required under KRS 45A.385, all
purchase orders or contracts for products or services in excess of $40,000
except those exempted below, must be advertised for sealed bid. Purchases may
not be split, parceled, or scheduled over a period of time in order to subvert
this requirement. All such bid processes shall be conducted according to the
provisions of KRS 424.130 and KRS 424.140 and approved by Fiscal Court. No
local preference shall be given in the bid selection process. No employee,
contractor, or agent shall participate in the award process if there is a real
or apparent conflict of interest.
   (C)   State contract pricing. The Fiscal Court may purchase products and
services outside of the bidding process if those products and services meet the
specifications of price contracts awarded by the state Finance and
Administration Cabinet. The supervisor, or designee, must provide the County
Treasurer with a copy of the master agreement prior to the issuance of a
purchase order.
   (D)   Competitive bidding exemptions. The following purchases are exempt by
law or finance and administration policy from competitive bidding. However, the
Fiscal Court may elect at any time to solicit bids or proposals for purchase of
exempt products and services in order to obtain the best value for Jessamine
County.
      (1)   Contractual services where no competition exists, such as
electrical energy, telephone service, and other public utility services (see
KRS 45A.095 and 45A.380(2)).
      (2)   Contractual services of a licensed professional, such as attorney,
physician, psychiatrist, CPA, nurse, or specialist, technician, provided,
however, that this provision shall not apply to architects or engineers
providing construction management services rather than professional architect
or engineer services, when a written determination has been made that
competition is not feasible (see KRS 45A.380).
      (3)   Rates fixed by law or ordinance (see KRS 45A.090).
      (4)   Cooperative purchases made between state agencies, political
subdivisions, state universities, agencies of other states, or agencies of the
federal government (see KRS 45A.300 and 45A.420).
      (5)   A product or service for which there is only one known capable
supplier as occasioned by the unique nature of the requirement, supplier, or
market condition (see KRS 45A.380(2)).
      (6)   Contracts for group life insurance, group health and accident
insurance, group professional liability insurance, worker's compensation
insurance, and unemployment insurance (see KRS 45A.380).
      (7)   A product or service made necessary by an emergency which will
cause public harm as a result of the delay in competitive procedures (see KRS
45A.380).
   (E)   Purchases less than $40,000. Purchases of products and services less
than $40,000 but more than $30,000 may be made in the open market, without
newspaper advertisement. Such purchases shall, whenever possible, be based on
at least three competitive written proposals or ascertained from vendor's price
lists or other quote information. Award shall be made to the supplier offering
the best value.
   (F)   Purchases less than $30,000. Purchases of products and services less
than $30,000 may be made without competitive proposals but shall be made with
attention to the lowest possible cost, consistent with the needs of the Fiscal
Court with regard to durability, performance, delivery, and service.
Supervisors must sign-off on all single item purchases over $250. The County
Judge/Executive or representative must sign-off on all purchases over $1,000.
(Ord. passed 8-15-2023)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violators of any provision of §§
30.01 through
30.03 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor under the laws of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall be fined up to $1,000 and/or up to 12 months
in the county jail per violation.
(Ord. 04-31, passed 10-5-2004)
CHAPTER 31: EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
E-911 Emergency Telephone Service
   
31.01   Title
   
31.02   Designation of agency
   
31.03   E-911 emergency telephone service
   
31.04   E-911 service charge; E-911 service fee
   
31.05   Increase
   
31.06   Contract
   
31.07   County budget
   
31.08   State and federal monies
   
31.09   Proprietary interest in and to data and information
   
31.10   Future establishment; maintenance and operation
Assignment of Access Names and Numbers to Structures
   
31.30   Definitions
   
31.31   Confidentiality
   
31.32   Official listing
   
31.33   Assignment of names and numbers
   
31.34   Duplicate or similar names
   
31.35   Compliance review requirement
   
31.36   Street signs; placement
   
31.37   Subdivision street signs
   
31.38   Identification of parcels and properties
   
31.39   Official access address; posting of identification
   
31.40   Address number requirements; residential
   
31.41   Address number requirements; commercial and industrial
   
31.42   Address number requirements; apartments
   
31.43   New construction or location
   
31.44   Authority for modifications
   
31.45   Enforcement
   
31.46   Map and plat designations
   
31.47   Use without permission
Hazardous Material Abatement Cost Recovery
   
31.60   Purpose
   
31.61   Definitions
   
31.62   Cost recovery standards
   
31.63   Lien created, seizure, impoundment
   
31.64   Response standards
 
   
31.99   Penalty
E-911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE
§ 31.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Jessamine County E-
911 Ordinance" or this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000)
§ 31.02 DESIGNATION OF AGENCY.
   (A)   The Jessamine County Judge/Executive is authorized and empowered on
behalf of the county to enter into agreements for the purchase and installment
of E-911 equipment necessary to implement and utilize the E-911 service
contemplated by this chapter.
   (B)   The County Judge/Executive, subject to the approval of the County
Fiscal Court, is further authorized to enter into local cooperation agreements
as is necessary and appropriate with other agencies or entities to create and
provide E-911 emergency services to the community.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000)
§ 31.03 E-911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE.
   A telephone service which provides the user of the public telephone system
the ability to reach local emergency service agencies on a 24-hour basis, by
dialing the digits 911. This service is capable at a minimum of transmitting
requests for law enforcement, fire-fighting and emergency medical services to a
public safety agency or other provider that provides that requested service at
the place where the call originates. An E-911 emergency telephone service may
also provide for other emergency services as becomes appropriate, including but
not limited to providing the capability for an automatic identification,
pseudo-automatic number identification, selective routing and automatic
location identification features.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000)
§ 31.04 E-911 SERVICE CHARGE; E-911 SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   In accordance with the terms of the agreements authorized in §
31.02 and in order to fund the establishment and the operation of E-911 service
in the county, all local telephone exchange subscribers within the county shall
be billed a monthly E-911 service charge of $2.25 on an individual telephone
exchange line basis, limited to a maximum of 25 exchange lines per account.
   (B)   The monthly E-911 service charge shall begin on the date E-911 service
is in operation, and all revenues collected from the service charge shall be
expended solely for the purpose of funding E-911 emergency services in the
county.
   (C)   In accordance with the terms of the agreements authorized in §
31.02, the telephone companies entering into an authorized agreement shall bill
and collect the monthly E-911 service charge and shall remit the revenues to
the Fiscal Court.
   (D)   A new E- 911 service fee shall be established initially at $4.75 per
month for each retail water customer that receives active billing for water
service located in the county.
      (1)   The service fee shall automatically increase or decrease in
accordance with changes in the Consumer Price Index, all urban consumers, all
items, unadjusted (1967=1.00) as published by U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau
of Labor Statistics, hereinafter referred to as “CPI”, annually beginning
January 2019 on a calendar-year basis.
         (a)   As promptly practicable after January 1, 2020, and each January
thereafter, the county shall compute the change, if any, in the cost of living
for the preceding one-year period, based on the CPI.
         (b)   The CPI number for January 2019, and each January thereafter,
shall be the “base index number”, and the corresponding CPI number for December
2019 and each December thereafter shall be the “current index number” for the
first CPI adjustment period, rounded to the nearest nickel.
         (c)   The current index number shall be divided by the base index
number. From the quotient thereof, there shall be subtracted the integer 1, and
any resulting positive or negative number shall be deemed to be the percentage
of increase or decrease in the CPI.
         (d)   The percentage of increase or decrease multiplied by the then
current monthly fee rate shall be the change required in the newly determined
fee.
         (e)   Within a reasonable time after obtaining the appropriate data
necessary for computing such increase or decrease, the county shall notify the
appropriate parties of the CPI change in the fee.
         (f)   The CPI adjusted monthly fee to fund E-911 service shall become
effective and be billed as of April 1 through March 31 for each 12-month year.
      (2)   Along with applicable taxes, this E-911 service fee shall be
collected by each water company, district, association and provider of a water
distribution system in the county for each retail water customer that receives
active billing for water service in the county in advance of the month or any
part of the month for which service is provided. The fee will not be prorated
for service less than a full month.
      (3)   Each water company, district, association and provider of a water
distribution system in the county shall remit on a monthly basis such fees
collected to the county E-911 service, and shall be permitted to withhold 2% of
these monies for the administration of this fee.
      (4)   The E-911 service fees collected pursuant to this division are not
a portion of the rate charged for water distribution, but are a fee levied on
the customer for the exclusive purpose of funding the delivery of E-911
emergency telephone service in the county as provided for by KRS 65.760.
      (5)   Water service cannot be discontinued for the nonpayment of the E-
911 service fee. For those customers not paying the E-911 service fee, the
county can pursue all legal remedies for nonpayment and noncompliance with this
division.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Am. Ord. passed 6-3-2008; Am. Ord. passed 1-29-2019)
§ 31.05 INCREASE.
   The amount of the special tax, license or fee may be increased from time to
time automatically and the increase will be based on the consumer price index
in order to provide sufficient funds for the purpose as herein stated.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000)
§ 31.06 CONTRACT.
   The County Fiscal Court may contract with necessary parties in order to have
the special tax, license or fee collected along with the regular telephone
billing or by other methods, and may use a portion of the revenue for
collection purposes.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000)
§ 31.07 COUNTY BUDGET.
   (A)   All revenues received shall be accounted for in the annual Fiscal
Court budget and shall be subject to audit.
   (B)   The net Enhanced-911 fees received by the county from the phone
company shall be paid to the Fiscal Court. These funds shall only be used for
the establishment, maintenance and operation of Enhanced-911 services.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000)
§ 31.08 STATE AND FEDERAL MONIES.
   The county may apply for and accept state and federal monies and accept
contributions and donations from any source for the purpose of funding an E-911
emergency telephone service.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000)
§ 31.09 PROPRIETARY INTEREST IN AND TO DATA AND INFORMATION.
   The County Fiscal Court shall be the exclusive owner of all data and
information supplied to the County Fiscal Court in connection with the
establishment and operation of an E-911 emergency telephone system in the
county, and the County Fiscal Court shall be the exclusive owner of all data
and information generated by the E-911 emergency telephone system in the
county, unless otherwise contracted with other agencies to share the
information.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000)
§ 31.10 FUTURE ESTABLISHMENT; MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION.
   The County Fiscal Court may adopt in the future separate ordinances or
resolutions which implement the establishment, maintenance and operation of E-
911.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000)
ASSIGNMENT OF ACCESS NAMES AND NUMBERS TO STRUCTURES
§ 31.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY. Jessamine County, Kentucky, including the Cities of Nicholasville
and Wilmore.
   DIRECTORSHIP.  DIRECTORSHIP of the planning, mapping, access name and
structure numbering of the addressing system used in the county, for the
purpose of providing Enhanced-911 services, shall be vested in the person or
persons designated by the County Fiscal Court.
   IDENTIFICATION OF ACCESS TO RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
STRUCTURES. Includes the access name and numbers of the location of the
structure (public and private) as authorized by the County Fiscal Court or its
agent or employee. ACCESS as used in this subchapter shall include public or
private highways, streets, roads, passways, easements, lanes, ways, streams or
any other means of access for emergency services to residential, commercial and
industrial structures in the county.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, private institution,
limited liability company, group, agency, representative, agent or agency
thereof.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 31.31 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   The identification of any access by name and number on any printed map
or format or publication of any kind is solely for the use by the Fiscal Court
to provide public emergency services for the safety and protection of the
public. All records, plats, maps, names and numbers researched, assigned,
published or developed by the County Fiscal Court shall be limited solely to
public emergency services provided by governmental agencies of the county,
except:
      (1)   The telephone company holding the contract for Enhanced-911
telephone service, but limited to the uses related to Enhanced-911;
      (2)   United States Postal service for postal delivery addresses;
      (3)   Jessamine County Property Valuation Administrator for tax
identification purposes; and
      (4)   The governmental agencies as necessary and approved by signature of
the Judge/Executive.
(Am. Ord. passed 5-20-2003)
   (B)   No other use shall be permitted of any information, maps, publications
and research of county government related to this subchapter, unless authorized
by official act of the County Fiscal Court.
   (C)   The identification of any access under this subchapter is solely for
the purpose of Enhanced-911 and does not create, change, alter, increase or
discontinue any legal rights of any public agency or private person. No
establishment of any road (public or private) can be created by any action
under this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.32 OFFICIAL LISTING.
   The county E-911 access index to be adopted by the Fiscal Court and filed in
the office of the County E-911 Project Manager shall be the official listing of
names and numbers of E-911 access to residential, commercial and industrial
structures in the county.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 31.33 ASSIGNMENT OF NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The Director appointed by the County Fiscal Court is hereby authorized to
assign names and numbers to any access for Enhanced-911 and approve names and
numbers compliance for private access to 3 or more occupied buildings.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 31.34 DUPLICATE OR SIMILAR NAMES.
   The County Judge/Executive or his or her duly authorized agent is hereby
authorized to negotiate with residents along streets or roads bearing duplicate
or confusing similar names in the county and to direct the change of the names
of the roads or streets to eliminate the duplication in accordance with all
applicable law, including KRS 179.330, if applicable.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 31.35 COMPLIANCE REVIEW REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No access (including streets or roads) within the county shall be
assigned a name or number on a subdivision plat or otherwise until the name is
registered with, reviewed for compliance and authorized by the E-911 Director.
The names and numbers would then be added to the county Enhanced-911 access
index. The Emergency Services Executive Director, or his or her duly authorized
agent, the E-911 Project Manager shall have the authority to refuse
registration of any access name or number already in use, confusingly similar
to a name and number already registered, or deemed confusing for purposes of
emergency response.
   (B)   No access name or number currently shown on a subdivision plat with
the county or otherwise shall be implemented by a subdivision owner until the
name has been registered with the Jessamine County-City of Whitmore Planning
Commission within its jurisdiction, reviewed and authorized by the E-911
Project Manager, and added to the county road Enhanced-911 access index;
provided, however, that this section shall not apply to any access, including
roads or streets presently constructed, on which street signs have been placed
prior to the effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 31.36 STREET SIGNS; PLACEMENT.
   (A)   All new street signs erected within the county shall be in conformance
with the uniform traffic control guidelines. Private road signs shall be
differentiated by color. Initial cost of the private road signs will be
incurred by the county, replacement costs will be incurred by the residents of
the private road. Any variance from these guidelines must be authorized by the
County Fiscal Court. The assignment of names and numbers or placement of signs
as public or private shall in no manner be a determination whether any road is
public, private, county or state, nor affect its legal status in any way.
   (B)   The County Judge/Executive or his or her duly authorized agent, the
Emergency Services Director is hereby authorized to direct the placement of
street signs at intersections within the county.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 31.37 SUBDIVISION STREET SIGNS.
   The owner of any subdivision or other development shall erect or cause to be
erected street signs in conformance with this subchapter at all intersections
within the subdivision of development upon construction on any street on or
after the effective date of this subchapter. Where any subdivision owner is
currently required to erect street signs but has failed to do so, the future
erection of street signs shall be in conformance with this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 31.38 IDENTIFICATION OF PARCELS AND PROPERTIES.
   All properties or parcels of land within the county shall hereafter be
identified by reference to a uniform numbering system, as shown on maps filed
in the office of the E-911 Project Manager.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 31.39 OFFICIAL ACCESS ADDRESS; POSTING OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   A house or building number shall be assigned to each dwelling or other
building in the county. The combination of these numbers and the road or street
name shall be the official access address of the dwelling or building. This
location may serve as the official mailing address for the postal patrons
receiving home or rural mail delivery, if accepted by the United States Postal
Service.
   (B)   When each house, dwelling or building has been assigned its respective
address, the owner, occupant or agent shall remove any old numbers that have
been changed and no longer apply. He or she will then place or cause to be
placed upon each house or building controlled by him or her the number or
numbers assigned under the uniform numbering system. These numbers shall be
placed on existing buildings within 60 days of notification of the assigned
address. The numbers shall be placed on new buildings prior to occupancy. The
cost of posting the address shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 31.40 ADDRESS NUMBER REQUIREMENTS; RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Street address numbers for residences shall be reflective, a minimum
of 3 inches in height, and shall be of a durable and clearly visible material.
The numbers shall be conspicuously placed on, above or at the side of the main
entrance so that the number is discernible from the street. Whenever a
residence is more than 75 feet from the street, or when the entrance is not
visible from the street, the number shall be placed along a walk, driveway or
other suitable location so that address numbers shall be contrasting color to
the background on which they are mounted. The numbers must be clearly visible
from the street or road during the daytime as well as after dark for ease of
location for emergency service responders.
   (B)   On occasions where address numbers are not easily discernible if the
structure is a residence (division (A) above) the minimum of 4 inches in height
numbers shall apply. Any exceptions to the address number posting guidelines
shall have the approval of the County Fiscal Court.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 31.41 ADDRESS NUMBER REQUIREMENTS; COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL.
   Street address numbers for commercial and industrial structures shall be a
minimum of 4 inches in height if located within 75 feet of a roadway or at
least 10 inches in height if located greater than 75 feet from the street. The
number shall be placed above or on the main entrance to the structure when
possible. If the number is not visible from the street, the number shall be
placed along a drive or on a sign visible from the street.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 31.42 ADDRESS NUMBER REQUIREMENTS; APARTMENTS. 
   Apartments and similar complexes assigned a single building number shall
display address numbers on each assigned structure using numbers having a
minimum height of 8 inches. Numbers or letters for individual apartments,
trailers or units within these complexes shall be displayed on, above or to the
side of the main doorway of each apartment, trailer or unit, and shall be at
least 3 inches in height.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 31.43 NEW CONSTRUCTION OR LOCATION.
   Whenever any house, building or structure shall be erected or located after
the initial establishment of the uniform numbering system as provided herein,
it shall be the duty of the property owner to procure the correct number or
numbers for the property and to affix the numbers to the building in accordance
with this subchapter. An application for a building permit for a new building
shall be considered an application for an address assignment. The Building
Official shall coordinate the application with the designated agent of the
county responsible for the assignment of addresses, and forward the assigned
address to the applicant not later than 60 days following issuance of the
permit. The applicant shall be required to furnish the measurements in relation
to intersections or other landmarks as shall be deemed necessary for assignment
of a valid address.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 31.44 AUTHORITY FOR MODIFICATIONS.
   In applying the guidelines specified herein, the Jessamine County Emergency
Services Executive Director or his or her duly authorized agent, the Jessamine
County E-911 Project Manager shall have authority to make minor adjustments and
modifications to ensure a logical and efficient street address system.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 31.45 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Fiscal Court shall be responsible for the interpretation,
administration, and enforcement of this subchapter and shall have the necessary
authority to ensure compliance herewith.
   (A)   In the event that the owner, occupant or person in charge of any house
or building refuses to comply with the terms and provisions of this subchapter
by failing to affix the number assigned within 60 days after notification, or
by failing within the period of 60 days to remove any old numbers affixed to
the house or elsewhere which may be confused with the number assigned thereto,
he or she shall be fined as provided in §
31.99.
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully defaces, steals, moves, removes or causes to
be moved any road or street sign in such a way that it is not visible shall be
subject to a fine as provided in §
31.99.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.46 MAP AND PLAT DESIGNATIONS.
   Any map, plat or any depiction of location of residential, commercial and
industrial structures shall be designated as "Emergency Services Map for
Enhanced-911." All the emergency services maps for Enhanced-911 shall have the
following disclaimer printed on the maps, as follows:
      This map is limited for use solely as emergency services map for
Enhanced-911 to show location of and access to residential, commercial and
industrial structures in Jessamine County, Kentucky. This IS NOT a county road,
state highway, private road or easement map. The legal status of any public or
private access to any property in Jessamine County, Kentucky is not changed,
altered or affected in any manner by this emergency services map for Enhanced-
911.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
§ 31.47 USE WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   Any person who publishes or uses the information, maps, plats or other
materials provided by this subchapter without the written permission of the
County Fiscal Court shall be subject to a fine as provided in §
31.99.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002) Penalty, see §
31.99
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL ABATEMENT COST RECOVERY
§ 31.60 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 39B.070(2) and 67.083 et seq., this
subchapter is adopted by the Fiscal Court of Jessamine County for the purpose
of requiring the timely payment or reimbursement by any parties responsible for
a release or threatened release of any hazardous material in Jessamine County
and its cities, of all costs incurred by the county or any agent of the county,
including the Bluegrass Emergency Response Team, mutual aid providers and other
local public safety or emergency services agencies, in responding to a release
or threatened release of any hazardous material.
(Ord. passed 9-30-2003)
§ 31.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COSTS. All expenses incurred by the county or any agent of the county,
including the Bluegrass Emergency Response Team, mutual aid providers and other
local public safety or emergency services agencies in responding to a release
or threatened release of a hazardous material. The term includes but is not
limited to expenses for salaries and personnel benefits of employees who
respond to a hazardous material release or threatened release, including lost
wages of volunteer personnel; the expenses incurred to replace materials,
supplies, vehicles and equipment expended, contaminated or damaged in response
to a release or threatened release of a hazardous material; expenses incurred
to properly clean up, restore or dispose of contaminated vehicles, equipment,
supplies and materials involved in a response to a release or threatened
release of a hazardous material; the logistical expenses incurred for food,
lodging, utilities, fuel, services, sanitation, medical surveillance or
treatment, evacuation and rental; and other personnel, health, medical, safety,
operating, support, logistical, maintenance or administrative expenditures made
to support the response to a release or threatened release of a hazardous
material, including any legal expenses incurred in recovering costs as
described in this subchapter.
   FIXED FACILITY. Any building, structure, installation, storage container,
equipment pipe or pipeline (including any pipe into a sewer or publicly-owned
treatment system), well, pit, pond, lagoon, impoundment, reservoir, ditch,
landfill, site or immobile vessel where a hazardous material is stored,
deposited, disposed of, abandoned, placed or otherwise is located. Consumer
products as defined in 15 U.S.C. § 2052, in consumer use and vessels, are not
included.
   HANDLER. A person that stores, maintains, treats, processes, uses,
generates, disposes of, transports, controls, manages or otherwise possesses a
hazardous material.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.  A substance (gas, liquid, solid or semi-solid) capable
of creating harm to people, property and the environment, including but not
limited to any element, commodity, compound, chemical, substance, mixture,
waste or any combination thereof, that is toxic, flammable, explosive,
incendiary, corrosive, radioactive, an oxidizer, organic peroxide, an
etiological or biological agent, carcinogenic or highly reactive when mixed
with other substances.
   MOBILE CARRIER. Motor vehicles, cargo tanks, box trailers, rolling stock,
rail tank cars, locomotive engines, aircraft, barges, boats or other motorized
vehicles or commodity containers used in transportation of a hazardous
material.
   OWNER/OPERATOR.  A person who owns or operates a fixed facility or a person
that owns or operates a mobile carrier as well as any person vested with
proprietary or decision-making authority over a fixed facility or mobile
carrier.
   PERSON. An individual, trust, firm, business, corporation, joint stock
company, partnership, consortium, association, cooperative, joint venture,
city, county, special district, a state or any department or agency thereof,
the United States of America or any department or agency thereof, or other
commercial or legal entities.
   RELEASE. Any accidental or intentional, unauthorized or non-permitted
spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, escaping, emptying, discharging,
injection, leaching, dumping or disposing of a hazardous material into or on
any site, surface, land, air, water, well, river, lake, reservoir, stream,
creek, ditch, sewer, pipe, drainage basin or other area.
   RESPONSE. Any actions taken to ensure the preservation and protection of
public health, safety, welfare and the environment, including but not limited
to any mitigation, logistical, remedial, and supporting measures required to
safeguard emergency responders, the public and the environment.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any person possessing or controlling a hazardous material
at the time of a release or threatened release of the hazardous material.
   THREATENED RELEASE. A factor or circumstance that presents a substantial
threat of a release.
(Ord. passed 9-30-2003)
§ 31.62 COST RECOVERY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Any person, owner/operator, handler or other responsible party who
causes or is otherwise responsible for a release or threatened release of a
hazardous material that requires or results in a response to the release or
threatened release and the expenditure of public funds in executing the
response to the release by the county or any agent of the county, including the
Bluegrass Emergency Response Team, mutual aid providers and other local public
safety or emergency services agencies in the county, shall be liable to the
county for all recoverable costs as outlined herein below and incurred by the
county, the Bluegrass Emergency Response team, mutual aid providers and other
local public safety or emergency services agencies in the county to include any
protective, mitigation, remedial and recovery actions taken in the response.
   (B)   The recoverable costs are as follows:
      (1)   In the event of a release of a hazardous material, or a threatened
release of a hazardous material, being transported in or otherwise involved in
transportation or transit in the county and its cities, the handler, the
shipper or carrier, the owner/operator of the hazardous materials and any other
responsible party, jointly and severally, shall be responsible for all costs
incurred by the county and any agent of the county, including the Bluegrass
Emergency Response Team, mutual aid providers and any other dispatched local
public safety or emergency services agencies in the county and its cities in
responding to the release or threatened release.
      (2)   In the event of a release of a hazardous material, or a threatened
release of a hazardous material, at a fixed facility, the handler or the owner/
operator of the hazardous material, and any other responsible party, shall be
responsible for all costs incurred by the county and any agent of the county,
including the Bluegrass Emergency Response Team, mutual aid providers and any
other dispatched local public safety or emergency services agencies in the
county and its cities in responding to the release or threatened release.
      (3)   At the direction of the County Fiscal Court, the Director of the
County Office of Emergency Management, on behalf of the county, is hereby
authorized and directed to prepare and submit all bills of claim to any owner/
operator, carrier, shipper, handler or other responsible party for payment or
reimbursement of all recoverable costs incurred as described in this
subchapter.
      (4)   At the direction of the County Fiscal Court, the County Attorney of
Jessamine County is hereby authorized and directed to initiate proceedings, in
the name of the county, in any court having jurisdiction over such matters as
are necessary to recover the costs incurred as described in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-30-2003)
§ 31.63 LIEN CREATED, SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   All releases or threatened releases of any hazardous material,
including a release or threatened release of a hazardous material involved in
transportation or transit or a release or hazard in the county. For the purpose
of securing all recoverable costs incurred in executing a response to any
hazardous material release or threatened release by the county and any agent of
the county, including the Bluegrass Emergency Response Team, mutual aid
providers and any other dispatched local public safety or emergency services
agencies in the county and its cities, the County Fiscal Court shall have, and
there is hereby created, a lien against the real or personal property in the
county possessed by the owner/operator, handler or any other responsible party
or person. The affidavit of the County Judge/Executive shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the amount of the lien and it shall be recorded in the office
of the County Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of
its recording and shall bear interest thereafter at the rate of 12% until paid.
The lien created shall take priority over all other subsequent liens, except
those asserted by any city or other taxing district, which has priority under
KRS 134.420, and may be enforced by judicial proceeding. The owner of property
upon which a lien has been attached under this subchapter shall also be
personally liable for the amount of the lien, including all interest, civil
penalties and other charges, and the county shall have the same remedies as
provided for the recovery of a debt owed.
   (B)   The lien shall be enforced upon the filing of an action in the county
circuit court naming all persons with a security or other interest in the real
or personal property to which the lien is attached.
   (C)   As to any moveable personal property or mobile carrier located in the
county, including but not limited to any titled motor vehicle, trailers
attached thereto; vessels, cargo tanks, locomotive engines, rail tank cars,
rolling stock and other equipment used to store or transport a hazardous
material, the County Fiscal Court may effectuate or order the seizure or
impoundment of the property pending enforcement of the lien by the county
circuit court. In addition, the County Sheriff's Office may order impoundment
to preserve the property as evidence.
(Ord. passed 9-30-2003)
§ 31.64 RESPONSE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Response to a hazardous material release or threatened release within
the geographical boundaries of the county by the county and any agent of the
county, including the Bluegrass Emergency Response Team, mutual aid providers
and any other dispatched local public safety or emergency services agencies in
Jessamine County and its cities shall be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of the county emergency operations plan, response agency SOPs, and
the terms of written mutual aid agreements approved by the County Fiscal Court.
The owner/operator or handler of the hazardous material involved in a release
or threatened release, or other responsible party, shall assume responsibility
to the county and any agent of the county, including the Bluegrass Emergency
Response Team, mutual aid providers and any other dispatched local public
safety or emergency services agencies in the county and its cities for all
costs incurred in responding to the release or threatened release, including
costs associated with execution or implementation of the County Emergency
Operations Plan, response agency SOPs and the terms of written mutual aid
agreements approved by the County Fiscal Court.
   (B)   In the event the county or any agent of the county, including the
Bluegrass Emergency Response team, mutual aid providers and any other
dispatched local public safety or emergency services agencies in Jessamine
County and its cities respond to a release or threatened release outside of the
geographical boundaries of the county under the terms and conditions of written
mutual aid agreements approved by the County Fiscal Court, the owner/operator,
handler of the hazardous material involved in the release or threatened
release, or other responsible party shall assume responsibility to the county
and any agent of the county, including the Bluegrass Emergency Response Team,
mutual aid providers and any other dispatched local public safety or emergency
service agencies in the county and its cities for all costs incurred in
responding to the release or threatened release, including costs associated
with the execution or implementation of the county emergency operations plan,
response agency SOPs, and the terms of written mutual aid agreements approved
by the County Fiscal Court.
   (C)   At the direction of the County Fiscal Court, the County Attorney of
Jessamine County is hereby authorized and directed to initiate such proceedings
against the owner/operator, handler or other responsible party, or other public
or private entity, in the name of Jessamine County, in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters as are necessary to recover the costs incurred
as described in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-30-2003)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalties, specifically including criminal
penalties which may be imposed pursuant to Kentucky Revised Statutes, any local
telephone exchange subscriber who fails to pay a monthly E-911 service charge
within 45 days after billing shall be deemed guilty of a civil offense and may
be subject to a civil fine imposed by the County Fiscal Court, not to exceed
$30 for each month the subscriber has failed to pay the E-911 service charge.
This civil fine may be recovered by the County Fiscal Court in a civil action
in the nature of a debt.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000)
   (C)   (1)   Violations of §
31.45(A) shall be fined not less than $10 or more than $25. Subsequent to a 30-
day period following notification of violation, each day during which the
violation exists may be deemed a separate offense. Warning citations may be
issued by enforcement personnel in appropriate circumstances.
      (2)   Violations of §
31.45(B) shall be subject to a fine of up to $250, confinement in the county
jail for up to 12 months, or both the fine and confinement.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
   (D)   Violations of §
31.47 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500, confinement in the county
jail not to exceed 12 months, or both the fine and confinement.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2002)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Continuity of government
Mutual Aid and Assistance
   
32.15   Definitions
   
32.16   Initial recognition of principles by all parties; no right of action
for third parties
   
32.17   Procedures for requesting assistance
   
32.18   Provider's assessment of availability of resources and ability to
render assistance
   
32.19   Supervision and control
   
32.20   Length of time for aid and assistance; reviewability; recall
   
32.21   Reimbursements
   
32.22   Rights and privileges of provider's employees
   
32.23   Workers' compensation; provider's employees covered at all times
   
32.24   Immunity
   
32.25   Mutual agreement to hold each other harmless from liability
   
32.26   Role of Kentucky Division of Emergency Management
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   When the absence or disability of the County Judge/Executive shall
prevent his or her serving in the office during a national, state or local
emergency, the duties and responsibilities of the County Judge/Executive shall
be administered temporarily by the Administrative Assistant.
   (B)   If neither the County Judge/Executive nor the Administrative Assistant
is able to serve in the Office of Judge/Executive by reason of absence or
disability, then the duties of the Office of the Judge/Executive shall be
assumed temporarily by a member of the County Fiscal Court as set forth in KRS
67.740 and 67.745.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2003)
MUTUAL AID AND ASSISTANCE
§ 32.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGREEMENT. This subchapter, the Commonwealth of Kentucky Statewide Emergency
Management Mutual Aid and Assistance Agreement.
   AID AND ASSISTANCE. Personnel, equipment, facilities, services, supplies and
other resources.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. A party's employee, who has been authorized in
writing by that party to request, to offer or to otherwise provide assistance
under the terms of this agreement. The list of AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES for
each party executing this agreement shall be attached to the executed copy of
this agreement. In the event of a change in personnel, unless otherwise
notified, the presumption will be that the successor to that position will be
the AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
   DECLARED EMERGENCY. Any incident or situation declared to be to be an
emergency by executive order of the Governor, a county judge/executive, a
mayor, or the chief executive of other local governments in the Commonwealth
pursuant to the provisions of KRS Chapters 39A to 39F.
   DISASTER. An occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury or loss of life or property, resulting from any natural or manmade
accidental, military or paramilitary cause.
   LOCAL AGENCY.  A county, special district or city charged with coordination
of all emergency management activities for its geographical limits.
   LOCAL EMERGENCY DECLARATION. An instrument signed by competent authority for
any incident or emergency situation deemed to be beyond the capability of the
county, special district or city charged with emergency response activities for
its geographical limits.
   PARTY. A governmental entity which has adopted and executed this agreement.
This may mean any general or special-purpose unit of government created and
existing pursuant to the Kentucky Revised  Statutes with the express power and
authority to contract and be contracted with.
   PROVIDER. The party which has received a request to furnish aid and
assistance from another party in need (the recipient).
   RECIPIENT. The party setting forth a request for aid and assistance to
another party (the provider).
(Ord. passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.16 INITIAL RECOGNITION OF PRINCIPLES BY ALL PARTIES; NO RIGHT OF ACTION
FOR THIRD PARTIES.
   (A)   As the agreement is a reciprocal contract, it is recognized that any
party to the agreement may be requested by another party to be a provider. It
is mutually understood that each party's foremost responsibility is to its own
citizens. The provisions of this agreement shall not be construed to impose an
unconditional obligation on any party to this agreement to provide aid and
assistance pursuant to a request from another party. Accordingly, when aid and
assistance have been requested, a party may in good faith withhold the
resources necessary to provide reasonable and adequate protection for its own
community, by deeming itself unavailable to respond and so informing the party
setting forth the request.
   (B)   Given the finite resources of any jurisdiction and the potential for
each party to be unavailable for aid and assistance at a given point in time,
the parties mutually encourage each other to enlist other entities in mutual
aid and assistance efforts and to enter into those agreements accordingly.
Likewise, the parties fully recognize that there is ample public purpose for
entering into this agreement, and accordingly shall attempt to render
assistance in accordance with the terms of the agreement to the fullest extent
possible.
   (C)   All functions and activities performed under this agreement are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. Functions and activities performed under
this agreement are carried out for the benefit of the general public and not
for the benefit of any specific individual or individuals. Accordingly, this
agreement shall not be construed as or deemed to be an agreement for the
benefits of any third parties or persons, and no third parties or persons shall
have any right of action under this agreement for any cause whatsoever. All
immunities provided by law shall be fully applicable.
(Ord. passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.17 PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   Mutual aid and assistance shall not be requested unless the resources
available within the stricken area are deemed inadequate by recipient. When
recipient becomes affected by a disaster and deems its resources inadequate, it
may request mutual aid and assistance by communicating the request to provider,
indicating the request is made pursuant to this mutual aid agreement. The
request shall be followed as soon as practicable by a written confirmation of
that request, including the transmission of a proclamation of a local state of
emergency and a statement or completed form describing its projected needs in
light of the disaster.
   (B)   All requests for mutual aid and assistance shall be transmitted by the
party's authorized representative or to the coordinator of the local agency as
set forth below.
      (1)   Method of request for mutual aid and assistance. Recipient shall
set forth requests by means of 1 of the 2 options described as follows:
         (a)   Requests routed through the recipient's local agency.  Recipient
may directly contact the local agency, in which case it shall provide the local
agency with the information in division (B)(2) of this section. The local
agency shall then contact other parties on behalf of recipient to coordinate
the provision of mutual aid and assistance. Recipient shall be responsible for
reasonable and documented costs and expenses incurred by any provider in
providing aid and assistance pursuant to this agreement.
         (b)   Requests made directly to provider.  Recipient may directly
contact the provider's authorized representative, setting forth the information
in division (B)(2) of this section. All communications shall be conducted
directly between recipient and provider. Recipient shall be responsible for the
reasonable and documented costs and expenses incurred by any provider in
providing aid and assistance pursuant to the provisions of this agreement as
noted in §
32.21. Provider and recipient shall be responsible for keeping local agencies
advised of the status of response activities, in a timely manner.
      (2)   Required information. Each request for assistance shall be
accompanied by the following information, in writing or by an available means,
to the extent known:
         (a)   Stricken area and status. A general description summarizing the
condition of the community (such as, whether the disaster is imminent, in
progress or has already occurred) and of the damage sustained to date;
         (b)   Services. Identification of the service function(s) for which
assistance is needed and the particular type of assistance needed;
         (c)   Infrastructure systems. Identification of the type(s) of the
public infrastructure system for which assistance is needed and the type of
work assistance needed;
         (d)   Aid and assistance. The amount and type of personnel, equipment,
materials and supplies needed and a reasonable estimate of the length of time
they will be needed;
         (e)   Provider's traveling employee needs. Unless otherwise specified
by recipient, it is mutually understood that recipient will provide for the
basic needs of provider's traveling employees. Recipient shall pay for all
reasonable and documented out-of-pocket costs and expenses of provider's
personnel, including transportation expenses for travel to and from the
stricken area. Further, recipient shall house and feed provider's personnel at
its (recipient's) sole cost and expense. If recipient cannot provide the food
and/or housing at the disaster area, recipient shall specify in its request for
assistance that self-sustained and supported personnel are needed;
         (f)   Facilities. The need for sites, structures or building outside
recipient's geographical limits to serve as relief centers or staging areas for
incoming emergency goods and services; and
         (g)   Meeting time and place. An estimated time and a specific place
for a representative of recipients to meet the personnel and resources of any
provider.
      (3)   State and federal assistance. Recipient shall be responsible for
coordinating requests for state or federal assistance with its (recipient's)
local agency.
(Ord. passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.18 PROVIDER'S ASSESSMENT OF AVAILABILITY OF RESOURCES AND ABILITY TO
RENDER ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   When contacted by the recipient/local agency, provider's authorized
representative shall assess provider's own local situation in order to
determine available personnel, equipment and other resources. If provider's
authorized representative determines that provider has available resources,
provider's authorized representative shall so notify the recipient/local agency
(whichever communicated the request). Provider shall complete a written
acknowledgment, whether on the request form received from recipient or on
another form, regarding the assistance to be rendered (or a rejection of the
request) and shall transmit it by the most efficient practical means to the
recipient/local agency.
   (B)   Provider's acknowledgment shall contain the following information:
      (1)   In response to the items contained in the request, a description of
the personnel, equipment and other resources available;
      (2)   The projected length of time the personnel, equipment and other
resources will be available to serve recipient particularly if the period is
projected to be shorter than 1 week (as provided in §
32.20);
      (3)   The estimated time when the assistance provided will arrive at the
location designated by the authorized representative of the requesting party;
and
      (4)   The name of the person(s) to be designated as provider's
supervisory personnel (pursuant to §
32.19).
   (C)   When a request has been submitted to the local agency, the local
agency shall notify recipient's authorized representative and forward the
information from provider. The recipient/local agency shall respond to
provider's written acknowledgment by executing and returning a copy of the form
to provider by the most efficient practical means, maintaining a copy for its
file.
(Ord. passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.19 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   (A)   Provider shall designate supervisory personnel among its employees
sent to render aid and assistance to recipient. As soon as practical, recipient
shall assign work tasks to provider's supervisory personnel and, unless
specifically instructed otherwise, recipient shall have the responsibility for
coordinating communications between provider's supervisory personnel and
recipient. Recipient shall provide necessary credentials to provider's
personnel authorizing them to operate on behalf of recipient.
   (B)   Based upon the assignments set forth by recipient, provider's
supervisory personnel shall:
      (1)   Have the authority to assign work and establish work schedules for
provider's personnel. Further, the direct supervision and control of provider's
personnel, equipment and other resources shall, at all times, remain with
provider's supervisory personnel. Provider should be prepared to furnish
communications equipment sufficient to maintain communications among its
respective operating units, and if this is not possible, provider shall notify
recipient accordingly. It is expressly understood that this may involve the
recipient providing radio frequencies to the provider while the provider is
assisting the recipient;
      (2)   Maintain daily personnel time records, material records and a log
of equipment hours; and
      (3)   Shall report work progress to recipient at mutually agreed-upon
intervals.
(Ord. passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.20 LENGTH OF TIME FOR AID AND ASSISTANCE; REVIEWABILITY; RECALL.
   (A)   The duration of provider's assistance shall be for the period agreed
upon by the authorized representatives of provider and recipient.
   (B)   As noted in §
32.16, provider's personnel, equipment and other resources shall remain subject
to recall by provider to provide for its own citizens if circumstances so
warrant. Provider shall make a good-faith effort to provide at least 24 hours'
advance notice to recipient of its (provider's) intent to terminate mission,
unless that notice is not practicable, in which case as much notice as is
reasonable under the circumstances shall be provided.
(Ord. passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.21 REIMBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided below, it is understood that recipient
shall pay to provider reasonable and documented expenses incurred by provider
as a result of extending assistance to recipient. These reimbursements shall
commence 12 hours after the provider support is on-scene and the recipient has
signed a local emergency declaration.
   (B)   The terms and conditions governing reimbursement for any assistance
provided under this agreement shall be in accordance with the following
provisions, unless otherwise agreed in writing by recipient and provider.
Recipient shall be ultimately responsible for reimbursement of all eligible
reasonable and documented expenses.
      (1)   Personnel. During the period of assistance, provider shall continue
to pay its employees according to its then prevailing ordinances, rules and
regulations. Recipient shall reimburse provider for all direct and indirect
payroll costs and expenses, including travel expenses incurred during the
period of assistance, including but not limited to employee retirement benefits
as provided by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). However, as
stated in §
32.23 of the agreement, recipient shall not be responsible for reimbursing any
amounts paid or due as benefits to provider's personnel under the terms of the
Kentucky Workers' Compensation Law.
      (2)   Equipment. Provider shall be reimbursed by recipient for the use of
its equipment during the period of assistance according to either a pre-
established local or state hourly rate or according to the actual replacement,
operation and maintenance expenses incurred. For those instances in which costs
are reimbursed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the FEMA-
eligible direct costs shall be determined in accordance with 44 C.F.R. §
206.228. Provider shall pay for all repairs to its equipment as determined
necessary by its on-site supervisor(s) to maintain the equipment in safe and
operational condition. At the request of provider, fuels, miscellaneous
supplies and minor repairs may be provided by recipient, if practical. The
total equipment charges to recipient shall be reduced by the total value of the
fuels, supplies and repairs furnished by recipient and by the amount of any
insurance proceeds received by provider.
      (3)   Materials and supplies. Provider shall be reimbursed for the
reasonable and documented costs of all materials and supplies furnished by it
and used or damaged during the period of assistance, except for the costs of
equipment, fuel and maintenance materials, labor and supplies, which shall be
included in the equipment rate established in division (B)(2) of this section,
unless the damage is caused by gross negligence, willful and wanton misconduct,
intentional misuse or recklessness of provider's materials and supplies used by
them during the period of assistance. The measure of reimbursement shall be
determined in accordance with 44 C.F.R. § 206.228. In the alternative, the
parties may agree that recipient will replace, with like kind and quality as
determined by provider, the materials and supplies used or damaged. If such an
agreement is made, it shall be in writing.
      (4)   Recordkeeping.  Recipient and Kentucky Department of Emergency
Management personnel shall provide information, directions and assistance for
recordkeeping to provider's personnel. Provider shall maintain records and
submit invoices for reimbursement by recipient using the format used or
required by FEMA publications, including 44 C.F.R. Pt. 13 and applicable Office
of Management and Budget (OMB) circulars.
      (5)   Payment; other miscellaneous matters as to reimbursement. The
reimbursement costs and expenses with an itemized notice shall be forwarded as
soon as practicable after the costs and expenses are incurred, but not later
than 60 days following the period of assistance, unless the deadline for
identifying damage is extended in accordance with 44 C.F.R. Pt. 206. Recipient
shall pay the bill or advise of any disputed items, not later than 60 days
following the billing date. These timeframes may be modified in writing by
mutual agreement. This shall not preclude provider or recipient from assuming
or donating, in whole or part, the costs and expenses associated with any loss,
damage or use of personnel, equipment and resources provided to recipient.
(Ord. passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.22 RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES OF PROVIDER'S EMPLOYEES.
   Whenever provider's employees are rendering aid and assistance pursuant to
this agreement, the employees shall retain the same powers, duties, immunities
and privileges they would ordinarily possess if performing their duties within
the geographical limits of provider.
(Ord. passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.23 WORKERS' COMPENSATION; PROVIDER'S EMPLOYEES COVERED AT ALL TIMES.
   Recipient shall not be responsible for reimbursing any amounts paid or due
as benefits to provider's employees under the terms of the Kentucky Workers'
Compensation Law, due to personal injury or death occurring during the period
of time the employees are engaged in the rendering of aid and assistance under
this agreement. It is mutually understood that provider and recipient will be
entirely responsible for the payment of workers' compensation benefits to their
own respective employees.
(Ord. passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.24 IMMUNITY.
   All activities performed under this agreement are hereby declared to be
governmental functions. Neither the parties to this agreement nor, except in
cases of willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith, their personnel
complying with or reasonably attempting to comply with this agreement or any
ordinance, order, rule or regulation enacted or promulgated pursuant to the
provisions of this agreement shall be liable for the death of or injury to
persons, or for damage to property as a result of any such activity.
(Ord. passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.25 MUTUAL AGREEMENT TO HOLD EACH OTHER HARMLESS FROM LIABILITY.
   (A)   Each party (as indemnitor) agrees to protect, defend, indemnify and
hold the other party (as indemnitee), and its officers, employees and agents,
free and harmless from and against any and all losses, penalties, damages,
assessments, costs, charges, professional fees and other expenses or
liabilities of every kind and arising out of or relating to any and all claims,
liens, demands, obligations, actions, proceedings or causes of actions of every
kind in connection with or arising out of indemnitor's negligent acts, errors
and/or omissions. Indemnitor further agrees to investigate, handle, respond to,
provide defense for and defend any such claims and the like at indemnitor's
sole expense and agrees to bear all other costs and expenses related thereto.
To the extent that immunity does not apply, each party shall bear the risk of
its own actions, as it does with its day-to-day operations, and determine for
itself what kinds of insurance, and in what amounts, it should carry. Each
party understands and agrees that any insurance protection obtained shall in no
way limit the responsibility to indemnify, keep and save harmless the other
parties to this agreement.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that each party does not
purchase insurance, it shall not be deemed to have waived its governmental
immunity by law.
(Ord. passed 2-14-2005)
§ 32.26 ROLE OF THE KENTUCKY DIVISION OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   Under this agreement, the responsibilities of the Kentucky Division of
Emergency Management are:
   (A)   To serve as the central depository for executed agreements, to
maintain a current listing of parties with their authorized representatives and
contact information, and to provide this listing to each of the parties on an
annual basis;
   (B)   To coordinate the provision of mutual aid and assistance to a
requesting party, pursuant to the provisions of this agreement;
   (C)   To keep a record of all requests for assistance and acknowledgments;
   (D)   To report on the status of ongoing emergency or disaster-related
mutual aid and assistance as appropriate; and
   (E)   If the parties so designate, to serve as the eligible entity for
requesting reimbursement of eligible costs from FEMA and provide information,
directions and assistance for recordkeeping pursuant thereto.
(Ord. passed 2-14-2005)
CHAPTER 33: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General
   
33.01   Standards of conduct
   
33.02   Nepotism
   
33.03   Definitions
   
33.04   Sexual harassment policy
Financial Disclosure
   
33.15   Persons subject to financial disclosure
   
33.16   Definitions
   
33.17   Information required to be filed
   
33.18   Date for filing reports
   
33.19   Reports are public records
   
33.20   Additional disclosure by public servant
County Ethics Commission
   
33.30   Members; vacancies; quorum
   
33.31   Power and duties
   
33.32   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
33.33   Notice of hearings
   
33.34   Hearing procedure
   
33.35   Appeals
   
33.36   Limitation of actions
   
33.37   Advisory opinions
CDL Alcohol and Drug Abuse Policy
   
33.50   Statement of purpose and policy
   
33.51   Alcohol and drug testing procedures
   
33.52   Definitions
   
33.53   Substance prohibited/prescription medications
   
33.54   Prohibitions
   
33.55   Driver applicant and current driver testing
   
33.56   Collection of breath and urine specimens and laboratory analysis
   
33.57   Consequences; appeal of test results
   
33.58   Confidentiality
 
   
33.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Forms
GENERAL
§ 33.01 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   No member of the Fiscal Court or County Judge/Executive shall become
interested, directly or indirectly, in any contract for work to be done or
material furnished for the county or any district thereof, or become interested
in any claim against the county or state.
   (B)   No Justice of the Peace, while he or she is a member of the Fiscal
Court, shall directly or indirectly:
      (1)   Become interested in or receive benefits or emoluments from any
contract let by the Fiscal Court of the county with relation to the building of
roads or any internal improvements;
      (2)   Work or supervise work, for compensation, on any public road,
bridge, culvert, fill, quarry pit or any other road work or internal
improvement under any contract made with the Fiscal Court; or
      (3)   Furnish, for compensation, any material to the county to be used in
the construction of any road or bridge or other internal improvement.
   (C)   No County Judge/Executive or County Attorney shall, directly or
indirectly, receive any benefits or emoluments from, furnish any material or
other thing of value to be used in or be interested in any contract let by the
Fiscal Court for the construction of any roads, bridges or parts thereof, or
any other public or internal improvement.
   (D)   (1)   In absence of good cause shown, no member of Fiscal Court shall
fail to attend 50% of the regular terms of Fiscal Court within a 6-month period
or fail to attend 2 consecutive terms of the Fiscal Court.
      (2)   GOOD CAUSE as used in division (D)(1) of this section shall include
but not be limited to personal or family illness, vacation, personal business
and work obligations.
   (E)   No public servant shall willfully neglect the discharge of his or her
official duties or commit misfeasance or malfeasance in office.
   (F)   No public servant shall receive, directly or indirectly, any interest,
profits or perquisites arising from the use or loan of public funds in his or
her hands, or to be raised through his or her county agency.
   (G)   No public servant shall become intoxicated or unable, incompetant or
disqualified to discharge any of the duties of his or her office by the use of
spirituous, venous or malt liquors, while in the discharge of his or her
office.
   (H)   No County Attorney, County Clerk or deputy shall purchase or speculate
in any claim allowed by the Fiscal Court of the county.
   (I)   No Sheriff or Tax Administrator shall become interested, directly or
indirectly, in the construction of any public works or improvements in which
the county or state is directly or indirectly interested, or on which he or she
may be required to pay money, or speculate in any claim against the state or
county.
   (J)   No County Clerk shall maintain a law partnership or association with
an attorney-at-law.
   (K)   No County Clerk, Justice of the Peace, Constable or Recorder shall
keep his or her office with that of an attorney-at-law.
   (L)   No county road engineer shall employ as a laborer on the public roads
his or her father, son, son-in-law, grandson, brother, brother-in-law, nephew
or first cousin by blood.
   (M)   No public servant shall solicit, accept or agree to accept any
pecuniary benefit upon an agreement or understanding that his or her vote,
opinion, judgment, exercise of discretion or other action as a public servant
will thereby be influenced.
   (N)   No public servant shall take or agree to take any bribe to do or omit
to do any act in his or her official capacity.
   (O)   No public servant shall solicit unlawful compensation by requesting a
pecuniary benefit for the performance of an official action knowing that he or
she was required to perform that action without compensation or at a level of
compensation lower than that requested.
   (P)   No public servant shall:
      (1)   Solicit, accept or agree to accept compensation for advice or other
assistance in preparing an ordinance, bill, contract, claim or other
transaction or proposal as to which he or she knows that he or she is likely to
have an official discretion to exercise; or
      (2)   Offer, pay or agree to pay compensation to a public servant for
advice or other assistance in preparing or promoting an ordinance, bill,
contract claim or other transaction with knowledge that acceptance by the
public servant is unlawful.
   (Q)   (1)   No public servant shall knowingly, with intent to obtain or
confer a benefit or to injure another person or to deprive another person of a
benefit:
         (a)   Commit an act relating to his or her office which constitutes an
unauthorized exercise of his or her official functions;
         (b)   Refrain from performing a duty imposed upon him or her by law or
clearly inherent in the nature of his or her office; or
         (c)   Violate any statute or lawfully adopted rule or regulation
relating to his or her office.
      (2)   No public servant shall knowingly:
         (a)   Commit an act relating to his or her office which constitutes an
unauthorized exercise of his or her official functions;
         (b)   Refrain from performing a duty imposed upon him or her by law or
clearly inherent in the nature of his or her office; or
         (c)   Violate any statute or lawfully adopted rule or regulation
relating to his or her office.
   (R)   No public servant shall, in contemplation of official action by
himself or herself or by a governmental unit with which he or she is
associated, or in reliance on information to which he or she has access in his
or her official capacity and which has not been made public:
      (1)   Accept or agree to accept a pecuniary interest in any property,
transaction or enterprise which may be affected by that information or official
action;
      (2)   Speculate or wager on the basis of the information or official
action; or
      (3)   Aids another to do any of the foregoing.
   (S)   Every public servant who has a prohibited financial interest which he
or she believes or has reason to believe may be affected by an official action
taken within the scope of his or her employment, including any vote or
decision, shall disclose the precise nature of the interest to the governing
body, and the disclosure shall be entered on the official record of the
proceedings of the governing body. The officer or employee shall refrain from
taking any official action with respect to the matter that is the subject of
the disclosure.
   (T)   No public servant shall use any public time, funds, personnel,
equipment or other personal or real property for his or her private gain or for
the private gain of any other person, unless the use is authorized by law.
   (U)   No county government officer or employee shall be prohibited from:
      (1)   Giving or receiving an award publicly presented in recognition of
public service;
      (2)   Giving or receiving commercially reasonable loans made in the
ordinary course of the lender's business; or
      (3)   Reasonable hosting, including travel and expenses, entertainment,
meals or refreshments furnished in connection with public events, appearances,
ceremonies or fact-finding trips related to official county government
business.
   (V)   No county government officer shall be prohibited from accepting a
gratuity for solemnizing a marriage.
   (W)   Any Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff or other peace officer who fails to
enforce any provision of KRS 242.015 to 242.990 after receiving information
thereof, or having knowledge of a violation thereof and failing to act thereon,
may be indicted for nonfeasance or malfeasance in office.
   (X)   No public servant convicted of bribery, forgery, perjury or any felony
by a court of record in or out of this state shall continue to hold office or
post. The office or post shall be vacated by the conviction, and any pardon
afterward shall not avoid the forfeiture of the office.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.02 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   After the effective date of this chapter, a family member of a county
elected officer shall not be initially employed or appointed to a position in a
county governmental agency in the same county in which the officer serves. This
provision shall not apply to a public officer's family members who, on the date
of the officer's election or appointment, has been employed in the same county
in which the officer serves.
   (B)   MEMBER OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY means a spouse, parent (or mother in law or
father in law), sibling, child or spouse thereof and any step relative to the
same degree of relationship or spouse thereof.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)
§ 33.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BENEFIT.  Gain or advantage to the beneficiary or to a third person pursuant
to the desire or consent of the beneficiary.
   CANDIDATE. A person who has officially filed candidacy papers for a county
elective office in the county or who has been nominated by his or her political
party pursuant to KRS 118.105, 118.115, 118.325 or 118.760 for any county
elective office in the county except school board elections and elections of
officials in the City of Nicholasville and City of Wilmore.
   EMPLOYEE. A person in the service of county government, any subdivision or
agency thereof or any political subdivision in the county which has officials
elected in whole or in part by citizens of Jessamine County (except the Cities
of Wilmore and Nicholasville and their agencies) who is under contract of hire,
express or implied, oral or written, where the County Fiscal Court or any other
agency or political subdivision in the county has the power or right to control
and direct the material details of work performance.
   GIFT.  A payment, loan, subscription, advance, deposit of money, services,
or anything of value, unless consideration of equal or greater value is
received.
   GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTION. Any activity which a public servant is legally
authorized to undertake on behalf of the county governmental unit which he or
she serves.
   PECUNIARY BENEFIT. Benefit in the form of money, property, commercial
interests or anything else, the primary significance of which is economic gain.
   PUBLIC SERVANT. Any person who is elected, appointed or designated as a
county official or public officer of any political subdivision in Jessamine
County (except the Cities of Nicholasville and Wilmore, or any agency, employee
or appointee of same); employee or appointee of the County Judge/Executive, the
County Fiscal Court or both; any person exercising the functions of any such
public officer, employee or appointee; any person participating as advisor,
consultant or otherwise in performing a governmental function (but excluding
witnesses); and any person elected, appointed or designated to become a public
servant although not yet occupying that position. PUBLIC SERVANT includes but
is not limited to County Judge/Executive, members of the Fiscal Court, County
Clerk, County Attorney, Sheriff, Jailer, Coroner, Surveyor, Constable, County
Treasurer, members of any county board, commission, authority, nonstock
corporation, or other county entity formed, appointed and approved by County
Judge/Executive and Fiscal Court or created by law. (Members of school boards
are excluded from this chapter.)
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)
§ 33.04 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY.
   (A)   The Fiscal Court strictly prohibits verbal or physical conduct by any
employee which harasses, disrupts, or interferes with another employee's work
performance or which creates an intimidating, offensive or hostile working
environment.
   (B)   The Fiscal Court strictly prohibits any supervisor or manager from
making submission to sexual advances a condition of employment, continued
employment, evaluation, compensation, benefits, promotion or any other
privilege, term or condition of employment.
   (C)   The Fiscal Court strictly prohibits any employee from engaging in
sexual harassment including the unwelcome touching of another person, the
making of advances or requests for sexual favors, the use of sexually-explicit
or abusive language, the making of sexually suggestive or degrading remarks
about a person or about a person's body or clothing and the display of sexually
explicit or suggestive literature, pictures, photographs or other objects.
   (D)   An employee who believes he or she has been subjected to sexual
harassment in the workplace has the responsibility to report harassment as soon
as possible to their Supervisor, or if the harassment involves the Supervisor,
to the County Judge Executive.
   (E)   It is policy to investigate all complaints of sexual harassment
promptly and confidentially as possible, and to notify the employee of the
results of its investigation upon completion.
   (F)   Any employee may, if dissatisfied with the investigation or
disposition of a complaint, make a written account directly to the Fiscal
Court.
   (G)   Any employee who is determined to have engaged in harassment or sexual
misconduct in violation of this policy will be subjected to disciplinary
action, up to and including immediate termination.
(Ord. passed 10-30-2001)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 33.15 PERSONS SUBJECT TO FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
   The following persons are subject to financial disclosure: County Judge/
Executive, Justice of the Peace (Magistrate), Sheriff, Jailer, Coroner,
Surveyor, County Attorney, County Clerk and County Treasurer and all candidates
for those offices. This provision shall also apply to a person appointed to a
vacancy in an unexpired term of any office mentioned.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)
§ 33.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST. An economic interest in the form of stocks, bonds,
realty, equity or credit or interests in a corporation, proprietorship or
partnership or otherwise.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)
§ 33.17 INFORMATION REQUIRED TO BE FILED.
   Persons required to file information under this subchapter shall file with
the County Ethics Commission the following:
   (A)   A description of each financial interest, direct or indirect, of a net
value of $10,000 or greater of himself or herself; and his or her principal
employer or employment, if self-employed. Exempted from this disclosure are
interests in the form of accounts in banks, savings and loan associations and
credit unions, retirement funds (including IRS, SEPT and Keogh Plans) and life
insurance.
   (B)   A list of every office of directorship held by the subject individual,
excepting such activities in political, religious, charitable or nonprofit
entities.
   (C)   The values of the interests required to be reported under divisions
(A) and (B) above need not be disclosed. Any entity required to be reported
under divisions (A) and (B) above need not be identified by name. The entity
may instead be identified by the principal types of economic activities in
which it engages.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)
§ 33.18 DATE FOR FILING REPORTS.
   Financial disclosure reports shall be filed annually on official form 1
included in the appendix to this chapter. Each person subject to financial
disclosure, while holding office, shall file with the County Ethics Commission,
by April 15 of each year, the written financial disclosure report required by
this chapter. Each person who is a candidate for any of the subject offices
shall file with the County Ethics Commission, by February 15 of the year in
which he or she becomes a candidate (or within 15 days after the last date for
filing as a candidate for a county office if filing date is after January), the
written financial disclosure report required by this chapter. Nothing shall be
construed to require the filing of more than 1 complete report for each subject
individual each year.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)
§ 33.19 REPORTS ARE PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Written financial disclosure reports shall be public record and subject to
inspection by any citizen of the Commonwealth. Within 30 days after reports are
due, the County Ethics Commission shall publish a list of those persons who
have filed reports and shall notify any person required to file, who has failed
to file the report, by certified mail, return receipt requested, of his or her
failure to comply with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)
§ 33.20 ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURE BY PUBLIC SERVANT.
   Every public servant who has a prohibited financial interest which he or she
believes or has reason to believe may be affected by an official action taken
within the scope of his or her employment, including any vote or decision,
shall disclose the precise nature of the interest to the governing body and the
disclosure shall be entered on the official record of the proceedings of the
governing body. The officer or employee shall refrain from taking any official
action with respect to the matter that is the subject of the disclosure.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)
COUNTY ETHICS COMMISSION
§ 33.30 MEMBERS; VACANCIES; QUORUM.
   (A)   The County Ethics Commission shall consist of 3 citizen members. The
members shall be appointed by the County Judge/Executive with the approval of
the Fiscal Court. Members shall receive no compensation but will be reimbursed
$50 per meeting for expenses. The terms of members shall be staggered and no
longer than 4 years.
   (B)   (1)   The members of the County Ethics Commission shall be chosen by
virtue of their known and consistent reputation for integrity and their
knowledge of local government affairs. The members may be reappointed for any
number of consecutive terms.
      (2)   A member of the County Ethics Commission may be removed by the
executive authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body (if
different from the executive authority) for misconduct, inability or willful
neglect of duties. Before any member of the County Ethics Commission is removed
from office under this section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity
for a hearing before the executive authority and the legislative body (if
different from the executive authority).
      (3)   Vacancies on the County Ethics Commission shall be filled within 60
days by the County Judge/Executive subject to the approval of the Fiscal Court.
If a vacancy is not filled by the County Judge/Executive and Fiscal Court
within 60 days, the remaining members of the County Ethics Commission shall
fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
      (4)   The County Ethics Commission shall, upon the initial appointment of
its members, and annually thereafter, elect a Chairperson from among the
membership. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Commission.
      (5)   Meetings of the County Ethics Commission shall be held, as
necessary, upon the call of the Chairperson or at the written request of a
majority of the members.
      (6)   The presence of 2 or more members shall constitute a quorum, and
the affirmative vote of 2 or more members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the County Ethics Commission who has a
conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the
Commission shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself
or herself from voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum.
      (7)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the County Ethics
Commission and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Commission
shall be recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)
§ 33.31 POWER AND DUTIES.
   The County Ethics Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings,
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Commission who has
the power to administer oaths;
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Commission;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
other appropriate person or body, as necessary, for appropriate action outside
the authority of the Commission;
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to county and county agency officers,
appointees and employees regarding whether a given set of facts and
circumstances would constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter;
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers,
appointees and employees of the county and county agencies who are subject to
its terms by issuing appropriate orders and imposing civil penalties authorized
by this chapter. Jurisdiction shall apply solely to civil violations and
penalties. All criminal violations shall be referred to appropriate criminal
law agencies;
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interest that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter;
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the Fiscal Court; and
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)
§ 33.32 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the County Ethics Commission. All complaints
shall be in writing, signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other
requirements established by the Commission. The County Ethics Commission shall
acknowledge receipt of a complaint to the complainant within 10 working days
from the date of receipt. The Commission shall forward within 10 working days
to each officer or employee of the county or county agency who is the subject
of the complaint a copy of the complaint and a general statement of the
applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the County Ethics
Commission shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations
contained in the complaint. The Commission shall afford a person who is the
subject of the complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the
complaint. The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to
appear and be heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the
allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the County Ethics Commission shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Commission, except:
      (1)   The Commission may turn over to the Commonwealth's Attorney or
County Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; and
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Commission may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Commission shall make a determination based on its preliminary
inquiry whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it
alleges a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If
the Commission concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction,
frivolous or without factual basis, the Commission shall immediately terminate
the inquiry, reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its
decision to the complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the
complaint was filed.
   (E)   If the County Ethics Commission concludes, based upon its preliminary
inquiry, that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Commission shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the
complaint and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the county and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public
confidence in county government issue, in writing, a reprimand to the officer,
appointee or employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of
the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body of the county or
county agency; and/or
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)
§ 33.33 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the County Ethics Commission determines that a hearing regarding
allegations contained in the complaint is necessary, the Commission shall issue
an order setting the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order
is issued, unless the alleged violator petitions for and the Commission
consents to a later date. The order setting the matter for hearing shall be
sent to the alleged violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a
hearing is issued.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)
§ 33.34 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the County Ethics Commission;
however, the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Commission
so as to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by
the nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Commission in connection with
the matter to be heard. The Commission shall inform the alleged violator or his
or her representative of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Commission hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Commission, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the County Ethics Commission shall be public, unless
the members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the County Ethics Commission
shall, as soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the
purpose of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether
a violation of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Commission shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Commission concludes in its report that no violation of this
chapter has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this
determination to the officer, appointee or employee who was the subject of the
complaint and to the party who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Commission concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Commission may by administrative action:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the Fiscal Court;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body (if different than the executive authority) that the violator be
sanctioned as recommended by the Commission, which may include a recommendation
for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $500 for any failure to comply with the civil or administrative
requirements of this chapter; and/or
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth's Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.35 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found to have violated any provision of this chapter by
the County Ethics Commission may appeal the finding to the circuit court of the
county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the County Ethics
Commission by filing a petition with the court against the Commission.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)
§ 33.36 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within 1 year after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)
§ 33.37 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The County Ethics Commission may render advisory opinions concerning
matters under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the county or county agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)    An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Commission shall be binding
on the Commission in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and
circumstances of the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances
arise which would change the opinion of the Commission if they had existed at
the time the opinion was rendered. However, if any fact determined by the
Commission to be material was omitted or misstated in the request for an
opinion, the Commission shall not be bound by the opinion.
   (D)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Commission shall be
admissible in the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for
violations of this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)
CDL ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE POLICY
§ 33.50 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   Drivers are an extremely valuable resource for the County Road
Department's business. Their health and safety is a serious concern. Drug or
alcohol use may pose a serious threat to driver health and safety. It is,
therefore, the policy of the County Road Department to prevent substance abuse
from having an adverse effect on our drivers. The County Road Department
maintains that the work environment is safer and more productive without the
presence of alcohol, illegal or inappropriate drugs in the body or on county
property. Furthermore, drivers have a right to work in an alcohol and drug-free
environment and to work with drivers free from the effects of alcohol and
drugs. Drivers who abuse alcohol or use drugs are a danger to themselves, their
co-workers and the county's assets.
   (B)   The adverse impact of substance abuse by drivers has been recognized
by the federal government. The Federal Highway Administration ("FHA") has
issued regulations which require the County Road Department to implement a
controlled substance testing program. The County Road Department will comply
with these regulations and is committed to maintaining a drug-free workplace.
All drivers are advised that remaining drug-free and medically qualified to
drive are conditions of continued employment with the County Road Department.
   (C)   Specifically, it is the policy of the County Road Department that the
use, sale, purchase, transfer, possession or presence in one's system of any
controlled substance (except medically prescribed drugs) by any driver while on
county premises, engaged in county business, while operating county equipment,
or while under the authority of the County Road Department is strictly
prohibited. FHA states that mandatory testing must apply to every person who
operates a commercial motor vehicle in interstate or intrastate commerce and is
subject to CDL licensing requirement.
   (D)   The execution and enforcement of this policy will follow set
procedures to screen body fluids (urinalysis), conduct breath testing, and/or
search all driver applicants for alcohol and drug use, and those drivers
suspected of violating this policy who are involved in a U.S. Department of
Transportation ("DOT") reportable accident or who are periodically or randomly
selected pursuant to these procedures. These procedures are designed not only
to detect violations of this policy, but to ensure fairness to each driver.
Every effort will be made to maintain the dignity of drivers or driver
applicants involved. Disciplinary action will, however, be taken as necessary.
   (E)   Neither this policy nor any of its terms are intended to create a
contract of employment or to contain the terms of any contract of employment.
The County Road Department retains the sole right to change, amend or modify
any term or provision of this policy without notice. This policy is effective
January 1, 1996, and will supersede all prior policies and statements relating
to alcohol or drugs.
(Ord. passed 11-18-1997; Am. Ord. 12-18-2001)
§ 33.51 ALCOHOL AND DRUG TESTING PROCEDURES; PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to set forth the procedures for the
implementation of controlled substances and alcohol use and testing of driver
applicants and current drivers pursuant to the alcohol and drug abuse policy.
These procedures are intended as a guide only, and are in no way intended to
alter any existing relationship between the County Road Department and any
driver.
   (B)   The County Road Department's (DER) designated employer representative
designated to monitor, facilitate, and answer questions pertaining to these
procedures is the County Judge Executive and\or his or her deputy.
   (C)   The policy shall be in accordance with the provisions, requirements
and regulations of the USDOT/Federal Transit Administration Drug and Alcohol
Rule, 49 CFR Part 655, Prevention of Alcohol Misuse and Prohibited Drug Use in
Transit Operations, as amended, and USDOT 49 CFR Part 40, Procedures for and
Prohibited Drug Use in Transportation Workplace Drug and Alcohol Testing
Programs, as amended and USDOT/Federal Highway Administration regulations, 49
CFR Part 382, Controlled Substances and Alcohol Use and Testing.
   (D)   For more detailed information, the (DER) designated employer
representative has a copy of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations
Pocketbook available for your review. All county CDL drivers have been issued a
copy of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations Pocketbook.
(Ord. passed 11-18-1997; Am. Ord. 12-18-2001)
§ 33.52 DEFINITIONS.
   When interpreting or implementing this subchapter, or the procedures
required by the Federal Highway Administration ("FHWA") controlled substance
testing regulations, the following definitions apply:
   ALCOHOL. The intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol, or other
low molecular weight alcohols including methyl and isopropyl alcohol.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION (OR CONTENT). The alcohol in a volume of breath
expressed in terms of grams, of alcohol per 210 liters of breath as indicated
by an evidential breath test.
   COLLECTION SITE. A place where individuals present themselves for the
purpose of providing breath, body fluid, or tissue samples to be analyzed for
specified controlled substances. The site must possess all necessary personnel,
materials, equipment, facilities and supervision to provide for the collection,
security, temporary storage and transportation or shipment of the samples to a
laboratory.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.  A motor vehicle or combination of motor vehicles
used in commerce to transport passengers or property if the motor vehicle:
      (1)   Has a gross combination weight rating of 26,001 or more pounds
inclusive of a towed unit with a gross vehicle weight rating of more than
10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Has a gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 or more pounds;
      (3)   Is designed to transport 16 or more passengers, including the
driver; or
      (4)   Is of any size and is used in the transportation of materials found
to be hazardous for the purposes of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act
and which require the motor vehicle to be placarded under the Hazardous
Materials Regulations (49 CFR part 172, subpart F).
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the meaning assigned by 21 U.S.C. 802 and includes
all substances listed on Schedules I through V as they may be revised from time
to time (21 CFR 1308).
   DRIVER. Any person who operates a commercial motor vehicle. This includes,
but is not limited to: full-time, regularly employed drivers; casual,
intermittent or occasional drivers; leased drivers and independent, owner-
operator contractors who are either directly employed by or under lease to an
employer or who operate a commercial motor vehicle at the direction of or with
the consent of an employer. For the purposes of pre-employment/pre-duty testing
only, the term DRIVER includes a person applying to an employer to drive a
commercial motor vehicle.
   DRUG. Any substance (other than alcohol) that is a controlled substance as
defined in this section and 49 CFR Part 40.
   FHWA. The Federal Highway Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation.
   OWNER-OPERATOR(S). A driver(s) who has been contracted for services with the
County Road Department. For the purposes of these procedures and the county's
alcohol and drug abuse policy, owner-operators are not to be considered
employees, but will be required to participate in the alcohol and drug abuse
policy like all County Road Department employee drivers.
   MEDICAL REVIEW OFFICER (M.O.). A licensed M.D. or D.O. with knowledge of
drug abuse disorders that is employed or used by a motor carrier to conduct
drug testing in accordance with this subchapter.
   ON DUTY TIME. All time from the time a driver begins to work or is required
to be in readiness to work until the time he or she is relieved from work and
all responsibility for performing work. ON DUTY TIME shall include:
      (1)   All time at a carrier or shipper plant, terminal, or facility, or
other property, or on any public property, waiting to be dispatched, unless the
driver has been relieved from duty by the motor carrier;
      (2)   All time inspecting, servicing, or conditioning any commercial
motor vehicle at any time;
      (3)   All driving time;
      (4)   All time, other than driving time, in or upon any commercial motor
vehicle except time spent resting in a sleeper berth (the county does not have
sleeper berths);
      (5)   All time loading or unloading a vehicle, supervising, or assisting
in the loading or unloading, attending a vehicle being loaded or unloaded,
remaining in readiness to operate the vehicle, or in giving or receiving
receipts for shipments loaded or unloaded.
      (6)   All time spent performing the driver requirements relating to
accidents;
      (7)   All time repairing, obtaining assistance, or remaining in
attendance upon a disabled vehicle.
   PERFORMING (A SAFETY-SENSITIVE FUNCTION). A driver is considered to be
performing a safety sensitive function during any period in which he or she is
actually performing, ready to perform, or immediately available to perform any
safety-sensitive functions.
   RANDOM SELECTION PROCESS. Alcohol and drug tests that are unannounced; every
driver of a motor carrier subject to test-tests conducted annually shall equal
or exceed 10% for alcohol tests and 50% for drug test of the total number of
drivers subject to testing of a motor carrier.
   REASONABLE CAUSE. That the motor vehicle carrier believes the actions or
appearance or conduct of a commercial motor vehicle driver who is on duty as
defined below, are indicative of the use of a controlled substance.
   SAFETY-SENSITIVE FUNCTION. Any of those on-duty functions set forth in 49
CFR Section 395.2.
(Ord. passed 11-18-1997; Am. Ord. 12-18-2001)
§ 33.53 SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED/PRESCRIPTION MEDICATIONS.
   (A)   Alcohol. Alcohol use means the consumption of any beverage, mixture,
or preparation, including any medication containing alcohol which, when
consumed, causes an alcohol concentration in excess of those prescribed by Part
382 subpart B (FMCS) and §
33.54 of this subchapter.
   (B)   Controlled substances.
      (1)   In accordance with FHA rules, urinalysis will be conducted to
detect the presence of the following substances:
         (a)   Marijuana;
         (b)   Cocaine;
         (c)   Opiates;
         (d)   Amphetamines; and
         (e)   Phencyclidine (PCP).
      (2)   Detection levels requiring a determination of a positive result
shall be in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the FHA and the county.
   (C)   Prescription medications. Drivers taking legally prescribed
medications issued by a licensed health care professional familiar with the
driver's work-related responsibilities must report such use to their immediate
supervisor or dispatcher, and may be required to present written evidence from
the health care professional which describes the effects the medications may
have on the driver's ability to perform his or her tasks.
   In the sole discretion of the (DER) designated employee representative, a
driver may be temporarily removed, with pay, from a safety-sensitive position
if deemed appropriate.
(Ord. passed 11-18-1997; Am. Ord. 12-18-2001)
§ 33.54 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Alcohol prohibitions.
      (1)   The new alcohol rule prohibits any alcohol misuse that could affect
performance of a safety-sensitive function, including:
         (a)   Use while performing safety-sensitive functions.
         (b)   Refer to the 4 hours before performing safety-sensitive
functions.
         (c)   Reporting for duty or remaining on duty to perform safety-
sensitive functions with an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater.
         (d)   Possession of alcohol, unless the alcohol is manifested and
transported as part of a shipment. This includes the possession of medicines
containing alcohol (prescription or over-the-counter), unless the packaging
seal is unbroken.
         (e)   Use during 8 hours following an accident, or until he or she
undergoes a post accident test.
         (f)   Refusal to take a required test.
      (2)   A driver found to have an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater
but less than 0.04 shall not perform, nor be permitted to perform, safety-
sensitive functions for at least 24 hours. The other consequences imposed by
regulations and discussed below do not apply. However, documentation of this
test constitutes written warning that company policy has been violated, and the
next occurrence could result in disqualification of a driver.
   (B)   Drug prohibitions.
      (1)   The regulations prohibit any drug use that could affect performance
of safety-sensitive functions, including:
         (a)   Use of any drug, except by doctor's prescription, and then only
if the doctor has advised the driver that the drug will not adversely affect
the driver's ability to safely operate the commercial vehicle;
         (b)   Testing positive for drugs; and
         (c)   Refusing to take a required test.
      (2)   All drivers will inform the alcohol and drug program administrator
of any therapeutic drug use prior to performing a safety-sensitive function.
(Ord. passed 11-18-1997; Am. Ord. 12-18-2001)
§ 33.55 DRIVER APPLICANT AND CURRENT DRIVER TESTING.
   (A)   Applicant testing.
      (1)   All driver applicants will be required to submit to and pass a
breath alcohol test and urine drug test as a condition of employment. Job
applicants who are denied employment because of a positive test, may reapply
for employment after 6 months.
      (2)   Offers of employment are made contingent upon passing the County
Road Department's medical review, including the alcohol and drug test. Driver
applicants who have received firm employment offers are to be cautioned against
giving notice at their current place of employment, or incurring any costs
associated with accepting employment with the County Road Department until
after medical clearance has been received. All newly hired drivers shall be on
a probationary status for 30 days, contingent upon medical clearance for
illicit controlled substance or alcohol usage, as well as other conditions
explained in the personnel policies. Under no circumstances may a driver
perform a safety-sensitive function until a confirmed negative result is
received.
      (3)   Driver applicant drug testing shall follow the collection, chain-
of-custody and reporting procedures as set forth in 49 CFR Part 40.
   (B)   Owner-operators. 
      (1)   Owner-operators engaged by the County Road Department are not
employees of the County Road Department, nor are they to be considered as such
under this subchapter. However, every owner-operator engaged to provide
services to the County Road Department must agree to, and successfully
participate in the county's alcohol and drug testing program. All owner-
operator agreements will be entered into by the County Road Department
contingent upon the operators' successful completion of urinalysis and breath
analysis under all phases of the County Road Department's program, and are
contingent upon the owner-operator's continued status as a medically qualified
driver.
      (2)   The term "driver" as used in these procedures includes owner-
operators.
   (C)   Employee drivers. Under all circumstances, when a driver is directed
to provide either a breath test or urine sample (Appendix C, which is adopted
by reference and can be found in the County Clerk's office) in accordance with
these procedures, he or she must immediately comply as instructed. Refusal will
constitute a positive result, and the driver will be immediately removed from
the safety-sensitive function, and will be subject to further discipline or
termination as appropriate.
      (1)   Suspicion-based testing.
         (a)   If a driver is having work performance problems or displaying
behavior that may be alcohol or drug-related, or is otherwise demonstrating
conduct that may be in violation of this subchapter where immediate management
action is necessary, a supervisor or dispatcher, with concurrence of the
alcohol and drug program administrator, will require that the driver submit to
a breath test or urinalysis. The following conditions are signs of possible
alcohol or drug use (not all-inclusive):
            1.   Abnormally dilated or constricted pupils;
            2.   Glazed stare - redness of eyes (sciara);
            3.   Flushed face;
            4.   Change of speech (such as, faster or slower);
            5.   Constant sniffing;
            6.   Increased absences;
            7.   Redness under nose;
            8.   Sudden weight loss;
            9.   Needle marks;
            10.   Change in personality (such as, paranoia);
            11.   Increased appetite for sweets;
            12.   Forgetfulness - performance faltering - poor concentration;
            13.   Borrowing money from co-workers or seeking an advance of pay
or other unusual display of need of money;
            14.   Constant fatigue or hyperactivity;
            15.   Smell of alcohol;
            16.   Slurred speech;
            17.   Difficulty walking;
            18.   Excessive, unexplained absences;
            19.   Dulled mental processes; and
            20.   Slowed reaction rate.
         (b)   Supervisors or dispatchers must take action it they have a
reason to believe 1 or more of the above-listed conditions is indicated, and
that the substance abuse is affecting a driver's job performance or behavior in
any manner. A supervisor or dispatcher observing such conditions will take the
following actions immediately:
            1.   Confront the employee involved, and keep under direct
observation until the situation is resolved.
            2.   Secure the (DER) designated employer representative's
concurrence to observations; job performance and company policy violations must
be specific.
            3.   After discussing the circumstances with the supervisor or
dispatcher, the (DER) designated employer representative will arrange to
observe or talk with the driver. If he or she believes, after observing or
talking to the driver, that the conduct or performance problem could be due to
substance abuse, the driver will be immediately required to submit to a breath
test or urinalysis. If the driver refuses to submit to testing for any reason,
the driver will be informed that continued refusal will result in
disqualification from any safety-sensitive function.
            4.   Employees will be asked to release any evidence relating to
the observation for further testing. Failure to comply may subject the employee
to subsequent discipline or suspension from driving duties. All confiscated
evidence will be receipted for with signatures of both the receiving
supervisor, as well as the provider.
            5.   If upon confrontation by the supervisor or dispatcher, the
driver admits to use but requests assistance, the (DER) designated employer
representative will arrange for assessment by an appropriate substance abuse
professional (SAP). Reassignment to the driver position is conditional to
completing the SAP's guidelines and return to work testing.
         (c)   The supervisor or dispatcher shall, within 24 hours or before
the results of the controlled substance test are released, document the
particular facts related to the behavior or performance problems, and present
the documentation to the (DER) designated employer representative.
         (d)   The (DER) designated employer representative will remove or
cause the removal of the driver from the county-owned vehicle and ensure the
driver is transported to an appropriate collection site and thereafter to the
driver's residence or, where appropriate, to a place of lodging. Under no
circumstances will that driver be allowed to continue to drive a county vehicle
or his or her own vehicle until a confirmed negative test result is received.
         (e)   If, during the course of employment, the driver acknowledges a
substance abuse problem and requests assistance, the problem may be treated as
if it were an illness, subject to the provisions set forth below:
            1.   The decision to seek diagnosis and accept treatment for the
substance abuse problem.
            2.   The diagnosis and prescribed treatment of the driver's
condition will be determined by health care professionals designated by the
(DER) designated employer representative in conjunction with the driver's
physician; and
            3.   The driver might be placed on medical leave for a
predetermined period recommended by those medical professionals if the SAP
determines that such action is appropriate.
      (2)   Post-accident testing. 
         (a)   Currently, federal regulations place the burden of compliance
with post-accident alcohol and drug testing regulations on the driver.
Therefore, all drivers are required to provide a breath test and urine specimen
to be tested for the use of controlled substances "as soon as practicable"
after an accident. The driver shall remain readily available for such testing
or may be deemed by the (DER) designated employer representative to have
refused to submit to testing. No alcohol may be consumed for 8 hours after the
accident or until a test is conducted. If the driver is seriously injured and
cannot provide a specimen at the time of the accident, he or she shall provide
the necessary authorization for obtaining hospital reports and other documents
that would indicate whether there were any controlled substances in his or her
system.
         (b)   An accident is defined by FHA regulations as an accident which
results in the death of a human being bodily injury to a person who, as a the
result of the injury, immediately receives medical treatment away from the
scene of the accident; or which has had 1 of the vehicles towed from the scene
of the accident. Except for a fatality accident, verification of the driver's
responsibility in the above accident scenario must be established by a citation
to the driver.
         (c)   Adherence by drivers to post-accident specimen collection
requirements is a condition of continued employment. (The failure of an owner-
operator to comply with DOT post-accident rules will be considered a breach of
his or her contract with the county), and the contract is invalid until
appropriate substance abuse professional counseling has been completed.
      (3)   Random testing. The county will conduct random testing for all
covered drivers as follows:
         (a)   A county-wide selection process which removes discretion in
selection from any supervisory personnel will be adopted by the County Road
Department. This process could select covered drivers by drawing names out of a
hat, or select drivers through the use of a computerized program.
         (b)   The random testing, once begun, will provide for alcohol testing
of at least 10% and for drug testing of at least 50% of all covered drivers.
         (c)   The random testing will be reasonably spaced over any 12-month
period.
         (d)   Once notified, a driver must proceed immediately to the assigned
collection site.
      (4)   Designation of physician. The (DER) designated employer
representative will be responsible for designating the appropriate substance
abuse professional who, in conjunction with the drivers' physician, will
diagnose the problem and recommend treatment.
         (a)   The driver's successful completion of the approved treatment
program is a condition of continued employment as a driver.
         (b)   Following successful completion of any approved treatment
program, the driver will be required to submit to at least 6 random drug tests
during the first year, and follow-up testing may be conducted for up to 60
months. Failure to adhere to this condition is grounds for immediate
termination.
         (c)   All supervisors or dispatchers will receive training to assist
them in identifying alcohol and drug use behavioral characteristics.
      (5)   Return-to-duty testing. Before a driver returns to duty requiring
the performance of a safety-sensitive function after engaging in conduct
prohibited by this policy and Part 382 Subpart B (FMCS), the driver shall
undergo a return to duty alcohol test with a result less than a 0.02 BAT or
receive a confirmed negative result from a controlled substance urinalysis
test.
(Ord. passed 11-18-1997; Am. Ord. 12-18-2001)
§ 33.56 COLLECTION OF BREATH AND URINE SPECIMENS AND LABORATORY ANALYSIS.
   (A)   Breath alcohol testing. Breath alcohol testing will be conducted
either on site or at a prearranged location by a qualified Breath Alcohol
Technician according to 49 CFR Part 40 procedures. Refusal to complete and sign
the testing form or refusal to provide breath will be considered a positive
test, and the driver will be removed from a safety-sensitive function until
resolved.
   (B)   Specimen collection. Specimen collection will be in accordance with
the applicable state and federal law. The collection procedures will be
designed to ensure the security and integrity of the specimen provided by each
driver, and those procedures will strictly follow federal chain-of-custody
guidelines. Moreover, every reasonable effort will be made to maintain the
dignity of each driver submitting a specimen for analysis in accordance with
these procedures.
   (C)   Laboratory analysis. As required by FHA regulations, only a laboratory
certified by the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) to perform
urinalysis for the detection of the presence of controlled substances will be
retained by the company. The laboratory will be required to maintain strict
compliance with federally-approved chain-of-custody procedures, quality
control, maintenance and scientific analytical methodologies.
(Ord. passed 11-18-1997; Am. Ord. 12-18-2001)
§ 33.57 CONSEQUENCES; APPEAL OF TEST RESULTS.
   (A)   Alcohol and drug abuse may not only threaten the safety and
productivity of all employees at the County Road Department, but causes serious
individual health consequences to those who use them. Attachment #1 (which is
adopted by reference and can be found in the office of the County Clerk)
outlines several personal consequences which may result after abuse of
controlled substances. Any confirmed actions prohibited by §
33.54, while performing a safety-sensitive function or refusing to take a
breath test, will be grounds for termination or disqualification as a driver.
   (B)   A driver testing positive for alcohol or drug use is subject to
termination or disqualification. Refusal to submit to testing will also be
considered a positive.
      (1)   Refusal may be defined as not providing a breath sample or urine
sample as directed, neglecting to sign appropriate control forms, using alcohol
within 8 hours of an accident, or engaging in conduct that clearly obstructs
the testing process.
      (2)   Any driver testing positive for the presence of a controlled
substance will be contacted by the County Road Department's M.O. The driver
will be allowed to explain and present medical documentation to explain any
permissible use of a drug. All such discussions between the driver and the M.O.
will be confidential. The County Road Department will not be a party to, or
have access to matters discussed between the driver and the M.O. If medically
supportable reasons exist to explain the positive result, the M.O. will report
the test results to the county as a negative.
      (3)   Within 72 hours after the driver has been notified of a positive
test result for drugs, he or she may request a retest of the split sample. The
signed request will be provided to the M.O. in writing, who will then initiate
the new laboratory analysis. If a different result is detected by the
subsequent laboratory, the test will be voided by the M.O., and the county
(DER) designated employer representative will be notified. A retest may be
initiated as appropriate.
(Ord. passed 11-18-1997; Am. Ord. 12-18-2001)
§ 33.58 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Under no circumstances, unless required or authorized by law, will
alcohol or drug testing information or results for any employee or applicant be
released without written request from the applicable employee.
   (B)   Drivers are entitled, upon written request, to obtain copies of any
records pertaining to the driver's use of alcohol or controlled substances,
including any records pertaining to his or her alcohol or controlled substance
tests.
   (C)   The county may wish to state a time frame for copies to prevent a
possible administrative burden. Review should be immediate.
   (D)   Collection of breath and urine samples must always be documented and
sealed with a tamper-proof sealing system in the presence of the driver, to
insure that all tests can be correctly traced to the driver.
   (E)   Drug test analysis from the DHHS approved laboratory will be forwarded
directly to the Medical Review Officer assigned by the (DER) designated
employer representative.
   (F)   Alcohol test results will be forwarded by the M.O. to the (DER)
designated employer representative for confidential record keeping.
(Ord. passed 11-18-1997; Am. Ord. 12-18-2001)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any member of Fiscal Court who violates §
33.01(A), if convicted, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $5,000
for each offense.
   (B)   Any officer who violates §
33.01(B) or (C), if convicted, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than
$200, or imprisoned in the county jail for not less than 10 nor more than 40
days, or both, and shall forfeit his or her office.
   (C)   Any County Judge/Executive or Magistrate who violates §
33.01(A) and either §
33.01(B) or (C), by the same act, if convicted shall be punished as provided in
division (B) of this penalty section.
   (D)   Any member of the Fiscal Court who violates §
33.01(D) shall be charged with neglect of office and upon conviction shall
forfeit his or her office.
   (E)   Any official who violates §
33.01(E), if convicted, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000,
and the judgment of conviction shall declare the office held by that person
vacant.
   (F)   Any public servant who violates §
33.01(F), if convicted, shall be guilty of a Class D felony as defined in the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, and the judgment of conviction shall recite that the
offender is disqualified to hold any public offices thereafter.
   (G)   Any public servant who violates §
33.01(G), if convicted, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000.
   (H)   Any official named in §
33.02(H) who violates that division (H), if convicted, shall be fined a sum
twice the amount purchased or speculated in by him or her.
   (I)   Any official named in §
33.01(I) who violates that division (I), if convicted, shall be fined not less
than $500 and not more than $2,000 for each offense.
   (J)   Any county road engineer who violates §
33.01(L), if convicted, shall be subject to a fine up to $100.
   (K)   Any public servant who violates §
33.01(M) and (R), if convicted, shall be guilty of a Class D felony as defined
in the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (L)   Any public servant who violates §
33.01(N), if convicted, shall forfeit his or her office and be disqualified
from the right of suffrage for 10 years.
   (M)   Any public servant who violates §
33.01(O) and (Q), if convicted, shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor as
defined in the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (N)   Any public servant who violates §
33.01(P) and (Q), if convicted, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor as
defined in Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (O)   Any public servant who violates §
33.01(S) and (T), if convicted, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $200
and, in the case of division (T), a refund of twice the fair market value of
the use of time, funds, personnel, equipment or other personal or real property
for private gain.
   (P)   Any official named in §
33.01(W) who violates that division, if convicted, shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $200, and the judgment of conviction shall declare the office
held by that person vacant.
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994)
APPENDIX A: FORMS
OFFICIAL FORM 1
   FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE FORM
   CALENDAR YEAR           
Elected Official or Candidate:
                                                                          
Address:
                                                                          
                                                                             
Name of Spouse:                                       
Names of Dependent Minor Children:
                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                     
Principal Employer or Employment:
                                                                             
   Description of Financial      Principal Type of Economic Activity
   Interest over $10,000
   €   Stocks                                                                                   
   €   Bonds                                                                                   
   €   Realty                                                                                   
   €   Proprietorship                                                                                
   €   Partnership                                                                                
   €   Other                                                                                   
List of Offices or Directorship held by Official or Candidate: (Entities may be
identified by the principal type of economic activities in which it engages)
   Office or Directorship         Principal Type Business or Economic
                  Activity in which Engaged
                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                       
I certify that the above financial disclosure form is true and accurate to the
best of my belief and knowledge. I understand this form is a public record.
   Dated:                                                ,
20                    
                                                                                                        
(Ord. passed 11-15-1994, Official Form 1)
Click_here_to_view_the_above_form_in_a_PDF_document.
CHAPTER 34: INVESTMENT POLICY
Section
   
34.01   Authorized parties
   
34.02   Investment policy
§ 34.01 AUTHORIZED PARTIES.
   The county hereby authorizes the following parties and individuals to invest
the county funds, pursuant to the terms and conditions of this chapter: County
Judge Executive and County Treasurer, or a member of the Fiscal Court if either
cannot serve for any reason.
(Ord. passed 12-20-1994)
§ 34.02 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Funds not needed for current expenses or obligations of the county may
be invested in any of the following:
      (1)   Obligations of the United States and of its agencies and
instrumentalities, including obligations subject to repurchase agreements,
provided that delivery of these obligations subject to repurchase agreements is
taken either directly or through an authorized custodian. The investments may
be accomplished through repurchase agreements reached with sources including,
but not limited to, national or state banks chartered in Kentucky;
      (2)   Obligations and contracts for future delivery or purchase of
obligations backed by the full faith and credit of the United States or a
United States government agency, including but not limited to:
         (a)   United States Treasury;
         (b)   Export-Import Bank of the United States
         (c)   Home Administration
         (d)   Government National Mortgage Corporation; and
         (e)   Merchant Marine bonds;
      (3)   Obligations of any corporation of the United States government,
including but not limited to:
         (a)   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation;
         (b)   Federal Farm Credit Banks;
         (c)    Bank for Cooperatives;
         (d)   Federal Intermediate Credit Banks;
         (e)   Federal Land Banks;
         (f)   Federal Home Loan Banks;
         (g)   Federal National Mortgage Association; and
         (h)   Tennessee Valley Authority;
      (4)   Certificates of deposit issued by or other interest-bearing
accounts of any bank or savings and loan institution which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or which are
collateralized to the extent uninsured, by any obligations permitted by KRS
41.240(4);
      (5)   Uncollateralized certificates of deposit issued by any bank or
savings and loan institution rated in 1 of the 3 highest categories by a
nationally recognized rating agency;
      (6)   Bankers’ acceptances for banks rated in 1 of the 3 highest
categories by a nationally recognized rating agency;
      (7)   Commercial paper rated in the highest category by a nationally
recognized rating agency;
      (8)   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of this state and of its
agencies and instrumentalities; and
      (9)   Securities issued by a state or local government, or any
instrumentality or agency thereof, in the United States; and rated in 1 of the
3 highest categories by a nationally recognized rating agency.
   (B)   The investment authority outlined above shall be subject to the
following limitations:
      (1)   The amount of money invested at any time by the county in one or
more of the categories of investments authorized by divisions (A)(5), (A)(6),
and (A)(8) of this section shall not exceed 20% of the total amount of money
invested by the county; and
      (2)   The county shall not purchase any investment on a margin basis or
through the use of any similar leveraging technique.
   (C)   The county hereby adopts the following standards for written
agreements pursuant to which investments are made:
      (1)   The fiscal court should determine who is authorized to sign the
written agreement, whether that agreement needs to be signed by more than 1
party; whether the agreement as a whole will need to be approved by fiscal
court.
      (2)   The county should include any other requirements that it may want
to make as standard for the written agreement.
   (D)   The county hereby adopts the following procedures for monitoring
controls, deposit or retention of investments and collateral.
      (1)   Working with the county’s investment advisor, the county should
make such determinations as to how often a report will be received on the
deposits;
      (2)   Where the deposits or investments will be physically located;
      (3)   Whether a third party custodian is desired or required for the
collateral;
      (4)    Whether the county actually wants to take possession and control
of the investment security, or if that will be left with the county’s bank/
trustee;
      (5)   The county should include any additional controls recommended by
the investment advisor or the county’s auditor.
   (E)   The county hereby adopts the following standards for diversification
investments, including diversification with respect to the types of investments
and firm with which the county transacts business: the fiscal court should
determine how much of the county’s investment should be in any one type of
investment and how transactions will be executed.
   (F)   The county hereby adopts the following standards for the qualification
of investment agents authorized to transact business with the county: The
fiscal court should determine what criteria to use in choosing investment
advisors, such as licensed to do business in Kentucky, the investment advisor’s
experience, the capitalization of the investment advisor, or any other factors
the fiscal court deems appropriate in determining whether the firm is capable
and qualified to transact business with the county.
   (G)   The county hereby requests that it receive reports on the status of
investment of funds on a quarterly basis.
(Ord. passed 12-20-1994)
CHAPTER 35: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Joint Tourism Commission
   
35.01   Creation
   
35.02   Definitions
   
35.03   Membership, terms, removal, officers and employees, and audit
   
35.04   SPGE applicability - fiscal year
   35.05   Annual budget and transient room tax
JOINT TOURISM COMMISSION
§ 35.01 CREATION.
   In conjunction with the City of Wilmore and the City of Nicholasville and
the simultaneous enactment by said bodies of similar ordinances, there is
hereby established the Nicholasville/Wilmore/Jessamine County Joint Tourism
Commission. The Commission shall serve and operate under such terms and
conditions as may be established by the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky
and all applicable ordinances enacted by the establishing bodies.
(Ord. passed 7-18-2017)
§ 35.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in KRS 139.010.
   RENT. The total amount charged for the rental of accommodations whether the
amount is charged by the provider of the accommodations or by a person
facilitating the rental of the accommodations by brokering, coordinating, or in
any way arranging for the rental of the accommodations.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2023)
§ 35.03 MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, REMOVAL, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES, AND AUDIT.
   (A)   Members. The Commission shall be composed of seven members and shall,
unless otherwise specified, be appointed by the joint action and agreement of
the Nicholasville City Mayor, the Wilmore City Mayor and the Jessamine County
Judge Executive, as set forth herein.
   (B)   Appointment of members. In the absence of both a local hotel-motel
association and a local restaurant association at the time of the establishment
of the commission, the initial commission members shall be appointed as
follows:
      (1)   Initial appointments. The following initial members of the
Commission shall, unless otherwise specified, be appointed by the joint
decision of the Mayor of Nicholasville, the Mayor of Wilmore and the County
Judge Executive of Jessamine County, to wit:
         (a)   Three commissioners representing local hotels or motels, one of
whom shall be appointed in the sole discretion of the Mayor of the City of
Wilmore;
         (b)   One commissioner, representing local restaurants.
         (c)   One commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three or more
names submitted by the Jessamine County Chamber of Commerce.
         (d)   One commissioner shall be appointed in the sole discretion of
the Jessamine County Judge Executive.
         (e)   One commissioner shall be appointed in the sole discretion of
the Mayor of the City of Nicholasville.
      (2)   Subsequent appointments/vacancies. All appointments or re-
appointments made after the date of the initial appointments described in
division (B)(1) shall be made as follows:
         (a)   In the event that no local hotel association exists and/or no
local restaurant association exists at the time it shall become necessary to
fill an expired term or other vacancy, all such subsequent appointments or
vacancies shall be filled in the same manner that the original appointment was
made.
         (b)   1.   In the event that a local hotel association exists at the
time it shall become necessary to fill an expired term or other vacancy, all
such subsequent appointments or vacancies shall be filled as follows:
            2.   Two commissioners shall be jointly appointed from a list of
three or more names submitted by the local city hotel and motel association and
one commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three or more names
submitted by the local county hotel and motel association, provided that if
only one local hotel and motel association exists which covers both the city
and county, then three commissioners shall be jointly appointed from a list of
six or more names submitted by it. A local city or county hotel and motel
association shall not be required to be affiliated with the Kentucky Hotel and
Motel Association to be recognized as the official local city or county hotel
and motel association.
         (c)   A Local Hotel/Motel Association must be a legal, non-profit
entity formed in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and recognized by the Kentucky
Secretary of State as active and in good standing. Furthermore, in order to be
recognized by this chapter as a Local Hotel/Motel Association said entity must:
            1.   Permit the admission of any and all lodging establishments
within the geographic bounds of Jessamine County whether they are hotels,
motels, or bed and breakfasts;
            2.   Maintain reasonable financial dues that permit participation
in the association by all those who desire to do so;
            3.   Maintain a board of directors of no less than seven members
which shall be comprised of employees, agents or owners of any major chain
hotel, independent hotel, bed and breakfast or industry partner which currently
operates within the geographic boundaries of Jessamine County;
            4.   Each entity desiring to be recognized as a Local Hotel/Motel
Association must appear before the legislative bodies of the participating
governments at a regularly scheduled meeting and submit the entities bi-laws
for approval by said body. The bi-laws will only be reviewed and approved in
the event said entity can prove to the legislative body that the entity has:
               A.   Been in existence for no less than two years at the time
the entity submits their bi-laws for review by the legislative bodies of the
participating governments, and
               B.   Have as members more than 50% of all hotels, motels and bed
and breakfasts in existence within the geographic boundaries of Jessamine
County at the time the entity submits their bi-laws for review by the
legislative bodies of the participating governments.
         (d)   1.   In the event that a local restaurant association exists at
the time it shall become necessary to fill an expired term or other vacancy,
all such subsequent appointments or vacancies shall be filled as follows:
            2.   One commissioner shall be jointly appointed from a list of
three or more names submitted by the local restaurant association or
associations. A local restaurant association or associations shall not be
required to be affiliated with the Kentucky Restaurant Association to be
recognized, as the official local restaurant association or associations.
         (e)   A Local Restaurant Association must be a legal, non-profit
entity formed in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and recognized by the Kentucky
Secretary of State as active and in good standing. Furthermore, in order to be
recognized by this section as a local restaurant association said entity must:
            1.   Permit the admission of any and all restaurant businesses
within the geographic bounds of Jessamine County including major chain
restaurant, independent restaurants, bars and food trucks;
            2.   Maintain reasonable financial dues that permit participation
in the association by all those who desire to do so;
            3.   Maintain a Board of Directors of no less than seven members
which shall be comprised of employees, agents or owners of any major chain
restaurant, independent restaurants, bars, food trucks or industry partner
which currently operates within the geographic boundaries of Jessamine County;
            4.   Each entity desiring to be recognized as a local restaurant
association must appear before the legislative bodies of the participating
governments at a regularly scheduled meeting and submit the entities' bi-laws
for approval by said body. The bi-laws will only be reviewed and approved in
the event said entity can prove to the legislative body that the entity has:
               A.   Been in existence for no less than two years at the time
the entity submits their bi-laws for review by the legislative bodies of the
participating governments; and
               B.   Have as members more than 50% of all major chain
restaurants, independent restaurants, bars and food trucks in existence within
the geographic boundaries of Jessamine County at the time the entity submits
their bi-laws for review by the legislative bodies of the participating
governments.
         (f)   In the event that no chamber of commerce exists when it shall be
necessary to fill an expired term or other vacancy, all such subsequent
appointments or vacancies shall be filled by the joint decision of the City
Mayors and the County Judge Executive from persons residing within the
jurisdiction of the Commission and representing local businesses.
         (g)   Vacancies on the Commission of members appointed under the terms
of division (B)(1)(d) and (e) shall be filled in the same manner that the
original appointment was made.
         (h)   Any candidate submitted for appointment to the commission,
pursuant to division (2)(a), (b) or (c) shall be appointed by the appropriate
chief executive officer or officers within 30 days of the receipt of the
required list or lists.
   (C)   Term. Commissioners shall be appointed for terms of three years,
provided, that in making the initial appointments, the appropriate chief
executive officer or officers shall appoint two commissioners for a term of
three years, two commissioners for a term of two years and three commissioners
for a term of one year. There shall be no limitation on the number of terms to
which a commissioner is reappointed. Upon the expiration of the term of any
member, such member may continue to serve without restriction until replaced.
   (D)   Removal of commissioner. A commissioner may be removed from office, by
joint or separate action, of the appropriate chief executive officer or
officers of the local governing body or bodies that established the Commission,
as provided by KRS 65.007.
   (E)   Officers and employees. The commission shall elect from its membership
a Chairman and a Treasurer, and may employ personnel and make contracts
necessary to carry out the purpose of KRS 91A.345 through 91A.394. The
contracts may include, but shall not be limited to, the procurement of
promotional services, advertising services, and other services and materials
relating to the promotion of tourist and convention business. Contracts of the
type enumerated shall be made only with persons, organizations, and firms with
experience and qualifications for providing promotional services and materials,
such as advertising firms, chambers of commerce, publishers, and printers.
   (F)   Books and audits. All books of the commission and its account(s) as
established pursuant to KRS 91A.390(2) shall be audited as provided in the
applicable sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes, as amended. An
independent certified public accountant or Auditor of Public Accounts shall
make a report to the Commission, to the associations submitting lists of names
from which Commission members are selected, to the appropriate chief executive
officer or officers, to the State Auditor of Public Accounts, and to the local
governing body or bodies that established the Commission that was audited. A
copy of the audit report shall be made available by the Commission to members
of the public upon request and at no charge.
(Ord. passed 7-18-2017; Am. Ord. passed 1-3-2023)
§ 35.04 SPGE APPLICABILITY - FISCAL YEAR.
   (A)   The Commission shall comply with all applicable provisions of KRS
65A.010 through 65A.090 governing special purpose governmental entities.
   (B)   Fiscal year. The Commission shall operate on the fiscal year beginning
July 1 of each year and ending on June 30 of the next following year.
(Ord. passed 7-18-2017)
§ 35.05 ANNUAL BUDGET AND TRANSIENT ROOM TAX.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission shall annually submit a budget and request for
funds for the operation of the commission to the Nicholasville City Commission,
Wilmore City Council and the Jessamine County Fiscal Court.
         (a)   The annual budget shall be submitted no later than the first day
of May of each year.
         (b)   The first line-item of each annual budget proposed by the
commission shall be an expenditure sufficient to cover all expenses anticipated
to be incurred relative to the annual audit.
         (c)   The proposed annual budget shall be acted upon by the
Nicholasville City Commission, the Wilmore City Council and the Jessamine
County Fiscal Court, either through approval or amendment, before the thirtieth
day of June of each year.
         (d)   In the event that any proposed annual budget is not acted upon
by the Nicholasville City Commission, Wilmore City Council and the Jessamine
County Fiscal Court before the June 30 date described above, the Commission
budget approved for the preceding year shall be automatically reinstated and
the Commission may operate under the terms of such budget until further action
of the City Commission, City Council and Fiscal Court.
      (2)   The Nicholasville City Commission, Wilimore City Council and
Jessamine County Fiscal Court shall include the Commission in the annual budget
of each entity and shall provide funds for the operation of the Commission by
imposing a 3% transient room tax on the rent for every occupancy of a suite,
room, rooms, cabins, lodgings, campsites, or other accommodations charged by
any hotel, motel, inn, tourist camp, tourist cabin, campgrounds, recreational
vehicle parks, or any other place in which accommodations are regularly
furnished to transients for consideration or by any person that facilitates the
rental of the accommodations by brokering, coordinating, or in any other way
arranging for the rental of the accommodations.
         (a)   The collection and enforcement of the transient room tax from
all persons or entities subject thereto, and who are located within the
incorporated boundaries of the City of Nicholasville, shall be the sole
responsibility of the City of Nicholasville.
         (b)   The collection and enforcement of the transient room tax from
all persons or entities subject thereto, and who are located outside the
incorporated boundaries of the City of Nicholasville and the City of Wilmore,
shall be the sole responsibility of the County of Jessamine.
         (c)   The collection and enforcement of the transient room tax from
all persons or entities subject thereto, and who are located within the
incorporated boundaries of the City of Wilmore, shall be the sole
responsibility of the City of Wilmore.
      (3)   Transient room taxes shall not apply to the rental or leasing of an
apartment supplied by an individual or business that regularly holds itself out
as exclusively providing apartments. Apartment means a room or set of rooms, in
an apartment building, fitted especially with a kitchen and usually leased as a
dwelling for a minimum period of 30 days or more,
      (4)   The enactment of this chapter hereby creates a 3% transient room
tax in all areas of Jessamine County that do not lie within the incorporated
boundaries of the City of Nicholasville and the City of Wilmore.
   (B)   All moneys collected pursuant to this section and KRS 91A.400 shall be
collected on a monthly basis and shall be maintained in an account separate and
unique from all other funds and revenues collected, and shall be considered tax
revenue for the purposes of KRS 68.100 and KRS 92.330.
   (C)   A portion of the money collected from the imposition of this tax, as
determined by the tax levying body, upon the advice and consent of the Tourist
and Convention Commission, may be used to finance the cost of acquisition,
construction, operation, and maintenance of facilities useful in the attraction
and promotion of tourist and convention business, including projects described
in KRS 154.30-050(2)(a). The balance of the money collected from the imposition
of this tax shall be used for the purposes set forth in KRS 91A.350. Proceeds
of the tax shall not be used as a subsidy in any form to any hotel, motel, or
restaurant, except as provided in KRS 154.30-050(2)(a)3.c. Money not expended
by the Commission during any fiscal year shall be used to make up a part of the
Commission's budget for its next fiscal year.
   (D)   The transient room tax collecting and enforcement entity as described
above, or an agent or employee designated in writing by such entity, is
authorized to examine the books, papers and records of any person, firm,
organization or other like or similar accommodation business required herein to
file a return. Said examination shall be permitted in order to determine the
accuracy of any return made, or if no return was made to determine the amount
of room tax due and owing.
   (E)   (1)   All transient rooms taxes collected by the City of Nicholasville
pursuant to the above section, shall be paid over to the Commission for deposit
into such account as is described in division (2) above, within 30 days of
collection.
      (2)   All transient room taxes collected by Jessamine County pursuant to
the above, shall be paid over to the Commission for deposit into such account
as is described in division (B) above, within 30 days of collection.
      (3)   All transient room taxes collected by the City of Wilmore pursuant
to the above, shall be paid over to the Commission for deposit into such
account as is described in division (B) above, within 30 days of collection.
      (4)   All transient rooms taxes collected by the state government, or any
agency thereof, and which are at any time transferred either to the government
of the City of Nicholasville, the City of Wilmore or the County of Jessamine,
shall be in turn transferred to the Commission by the receiving city or county
government, for deposit into such account as is described in division (B)
above, within 30 days of collection.
   (F)   The Commission, with the approval of the tax levying body, may borrow
money to pay its obligations that cannot be paid at maturity out of current
revenue from the transient room tax, but shall not borrow a sum greater than
can be repaid out of the revenue anticipated from the transient room tax during
the year the money is borrowed. The Commission may pledge its securities for
the repayment of any sum borrowed.
   (G)   The City of Nicholasville and/or the City of Wilmore and/or the
Jessamine County Fiscal Court are authorized and empowered to issue revenue
bonds pursuant to KRS Ch. 58 for public projects. Bonds issued for the purposes
of KRS 91A.350 through 91A.390, may be used to pay any cost for the acquisition
of real estate, the construction of buildings and appurtenances, the
preparation of plans and specifications, and legal and other services
incidental to the project or to the issuance of the bonds. The payment of the
bonds, with interest, may be secured by a pledge of and a first lien on all of
the receipts and revenue derived, or to be derived, from the rental or
operation of the property involved. Bond and interest obligations issued
pursuant to this section shall not constitute an indebtedness of the county,
consolidated local government, or city. All bonds sold under the authority of
this section shall be subject to competitive bidding as provided by law, and
shall bear interest at a rate not to exceed that established for bonds issued
for public projects under KRS Ch. 58.
   (H)   The chapter shall be severable. If any sentence, clause, section or
portion of this subchapter or the application thereof to any particular set of
facts is for any person found to be unconstitutional or invalid, said sentence,
clause, section or portions shall be severed, and such unconstitutional or
invalidity shall not affect repeal an of the remaining provisions, sentences,
clauses, or portions of the chapter.
   (I)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any transient room tax imposed by this chapter remaining unpaid
after it becomes due shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum of the
amount of the unpaid tax payable and added to the principal amount when paid.
      (2)   If said account remains unpaid 60 days after its due date, the
Tourism Commission may seek criminal charges through the Office of the
Jessamine County Attorney for enforcement of this chapter.
      (3)   Any owner, manager, corporate officer, director, or agent in charge
of any facility subject to this chapter is deemed responsible for seeing that
said monies are paid to the Tourism Commission. Sixty days delinquency on the
part of any establishment charged with collecting and paying this tax shall be
prima facie evidence of willful intent not to pay same.
      (4)   Upon conviction for willful intent not to pay said tax, any person
mentioned in division (C) above shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor as
defined in KRS Chs. 500 et seq., and upon conviction may be fined not more than
$250 or sentenced to imprisonment in the County Jail for not more than 90 days
in said jail, or both fine and imprisonment may be levied. Each day's continued
violation shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. passed 7-18-2017; Am. Ord. passed 1-3-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   SOLID WASTE
         
51.   PUBLIC SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Solid waste storage
   
50.03   Collection of solid waste
   
50.04   Disposal of solid waste
   
50.05   Franchise
   
50.06   Rules and regulations
   
50.07   Prohibited practices
   
50.08   Service charges and billing
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULKY RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of combustible and/or
non-combustible waste materials from dwelling units, commercial, industrial,
institutional, or agricultural establishments which are either too large or too
heavy to be safely and conveniently loaded in solid waste collection vehicles
by solid waste collectors, with the equipment available. This includes but is
not limited to household appliances such as stoves, refrigerators, water
heaters, furniture, etc.
   COLLECTION. Removal and transportation of solid waste from its place of
storage to its place of processing or disposal.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Materials such as lumber, bricks, dirt,
stone, plaster, roofing, sheathing, rubble, conduit pipe, wire insulation and
other similar items resulting from repairs, additions, destruction or
construction of buildings.
   DISPOSABLE SOLID WASTE CONTAINER. Disposable plastic sacks with a capacity
of 10 to 35 gallons specifically designed for storage of solid waste.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a structure, and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used, or are intended
to be used, for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal or vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, serving or consumption of food.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Wastes that pose a potential hazard to humans or other
living organisms for one or more of the following reasons: (1) Such wastes are
nondegradable or persistent in nature; (2) their effects can be magnified by
organisms in the environment; (3) they can be lethal; or (4) the may cause
detrimental cumulative effects. General categories of hazardous wastes include
toxic chemicals and flammable, radioactive, or biological substances. These
wastes can be in the form of sludge, liquid, gas, and solid.
   MULTIPLE HOUSING FACILITY. A housing facility containing more than one
dwelling unit under 1 roof.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, shall
be in actual possession of any dwelling unit or of any other improved real
property, either as owner or as a tenant.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, political
subdivision, or organization of any kind, or their legal representative, agent
or assignees.
   REFUSE. Solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE. Unwanted or discarded waste materials in a solid or semi-solid
state, including but not limited to garbage, ashes, street refuse, rubbish,
dead animals, animal and agricultural wastes, yard wastes, discarded
appliances, special wastes, industrial wastes, and demolition and construction
wastes.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste resulting from the operation of
any commercial, industrial, institutional or agricultural establishment.
      (2)   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste resulting from the maintenance
and operation of dwelling units.
   SOLID WASTE CONTAINER. Receptacle used by any person to store solid waste
during the interval between solid waste collections.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL. The process of discarding or getting rid of unwanted
material. In particular, the final deposition of solid waste by man.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. The entire solid waste system of storage,
collection, transportation, and disposal.
   SPECIAL WASTE. Waste that does not fall into the categories of hazardous or
non-hazardous waste.
   STORAGE. Keeping, maintaining, or storing solid waste from the time of its
production until the time of its collection.
   YARD WASTES. Grass clippings, leaves, tree trimmings, etc.
(Ord. 531-04, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 50.02 SOLID WASTE STORAGE.
   (A)   (1)   The occupant of every dwelling unit and every institutional,
commercial or business, industrial or agricultural establishment producing
solid waste within the city shall provide sufficient and adequate containers
for the storage of all solid waste. Exceptions will be made for bulky rubbish
and demolition and construction waste to serve each such dwelling unit and/or
establishment. All solid waste containers must be maintained in good repair at
all times.
      (2)   All medical waste must be packaged and stored in containers that
will guarantee that there can be no possible contact between the waste material
and solid waste collection personnel.
   (B)   The occupant of every dwelling unit and of every institutional,
commercial, industrial, agricultural or business establishment shall place all
solid waste to be collected in proper solid waste containers, except as
otherwise provided herein. Such solid waste containers shall be maintained, and
the area surrounding them, in a clean, neat and sanitary condition at all
times.
   (C)   Residential solid waste shall be stored in containers of not more than
40 gallons or less than 10 gallons in nominal capacity. Containers shall be
leak proof, waterproof, and fitted with a fly-tight lid and shall be properly
covered at all times except when depositing waste therein or removing the
contents thereof. The containers shall have handles, bails, or other suitable
lifting devices or features. Containers shall be of a type originally
manufactured for residential solid waste, with tapered sides for easy emptying.
They shall be of lightweight and sturdy construction. The weight of any
individual container and contents shall not exceed 75 pounds. Galvanized metal
containers, rubber or fiberglass containers, and plastic containers that do not
become brittle in cold weather may be used. Disposable solid waste containers
with suitable frames or containers as approved by the city may also be used for
storage of residential solid waste.
   (D)   (1)   Commercial, business, or institutional solid waste shall be
stored in solid waste containers (such as “dumpsters”) provided by the city.
These containers will meet the specifications required by the equipment used by
the city for the collection of solid waste, and the container will be sized to
accommodate the solid waste generated by the entity. The city will solely
determine the size of the container and the frequency of collection. The
container(s) will be sized to hold the total volume of the solid waste
completely within the container for the entire duration between collection
cycles. The city will routinely evaluate the usage patterns of each container
and will decrease or increase the container size accordingly. The city’s intent
will be to size each container for each customer so that it will be full or
nearly full prior to each collection.
      (2)   This solid waste container will remain the property of the city.
Only containers supplied by the city will be acceptable. Bulky rubbish and
construction and demolition waste shall not be deposited in city-owned
containers. Litter and debris shall not be allowed to accumulate around the
dumpster and all waste shall be deposited in such a manner as to prevent
spilling or blowing out of the container.
   (E)   Brush and tree limbs less than 4 inches in diameter and less than 8
feet in length shall be stacked at the curb parallel to the street or public
thoroughfare when not placed in storage containers.
   (F)   Yard wastes shall be stored in containers so constructed and
maintained as to prevent the dispersal of wastes placed therein upon the
premises served, upon adjacent premises, or upon adjacent public rights of way.
The weight of any individual container and contents shall not exceed 75 pounds.
   (G)   The contents of a solid waste container that is not approved will not
be collected.
(Ord. 531-04, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 50.03 COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall provide for the collection of solid waste in the
city in a manner deemed to be in the best interests of the city. The occupant
of every dwelling unit, and every commercial or business institution,
industrial or agricultural establishment, and private institution within the
city shall be a solid waste collection customer of the city. The Jessamine
County Board of Education facilities located within the city are exempt from
all provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Dumpsters are required at the following locations. (Any exceptions
must be duly noted and approved by the Public Works Director).
         (a)   Multi-unit dwellings of 7 units or more (i.e. apartments,
townhouses, condominiums, etc.)
         (b)   All “mixed-use” (i.e. downstairs retail and upstairs dwelling),
office, commercial, industrial, or institutional properties that generate 2
cubic yards or more of solid waste per week as determined by historical usage
patterns at any one collection location.
         (c)   All properties with a single master water meter that provides
water to multiple businesses and/or residential units if curbside pickup is
impractical.
   (B)   All solid waste from premises to which collection services are
provided by the city shall be collected, except hazardous waste, bulky rubbish,
or demolition and construction waste, as defined herein. All solid waste
collected shall, upon being loaded into collection equipment, become the
property of the city.
   (C)   Tree limbs and yard wastes, as described in §
50.02(E) and (F) respectively, shall be placed adjacent to, and parallel to,
the roadside or public thoroughfare for collection. Solid waste containers as
required by this chapter for the storage of other residential solid waste shall
be placed at the roadside for collection. Any solid waste containers, tree
limbs, yard wastes, or other solid waste permitted by this chapter to be placed
at the roadside for collection shall not be so placed earlier than 24 hours
prior to the regularly scheduled collection day. The containers shall be
removed within 24 hours after collection.
   (D)   Bulky rubbish and construction and demolition waste shall be collected
upon request to the city. The city shall establish the procedure and fee for
collecting these solid wastes.
   (E)   Solid waste collectors employed by the city are hereby authorized to
enter upon private property for the purpose of collecting solid waste therefrom
as required by this chapter. Solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling
units or other residential buildings for the purpose of collecting residential
solid waste. Commercial solid waste may be removed from within commercial
establishments upon authorization of the owner, or their representative, and
approval by a city Public Works Department Supervisor.
   (F)   All residential solid waste within the city, other than bulky rubbish
and construction and demolition waste, shall be collected at least once weekly.
All commercial solid waste shall be collected at least once weekly with
additional collections if necessary for the preservation of the health and
safety of the public.
   (G)   The city’s service charge for residential collection presumes a
"normal" amount of garbage will be collected from each customer as indicated by
their “normal” usage history (typically no more than 10-12 kitchen size [13
gallon] garbage bags per week). Any excessive disposal (such as after a yard
sale; while moving; a grand spring cleaning) will be collected and then billed
according to the bulk disposal rate in the current rate ordinance.
   (H)   (1)   Residential solid waste containers shall be stored upon the
residential premises; however, all collection of residential solid waste shall
be at the roadside adjacent to the public street or thoroughfare. If the
occupant(s) of the residence is physically incapable of transporting the
containers) to the curbside, a request for collection adjacent to the dwelling
can be made by contacting the Utilities Clerk; authorization can be granted
with approval from the Mayor or Public Works Director. There will be no charge
for off-curb collection for those who meet the above criteria.
      (2)   Commercial solid waste containers shall be stored upon private
property, unless the owner has been granted written permission from the
appropriate agency to use public property for such purposes. The storage site
shall be on a hard surface (such as concrete, asphalt) no less than 8 feet
square, well drained, and fully accessible to collection equipment, Public
Works and public health personnel, and fire department personnel.
   (I)   All collection vehicles shall be maintained and operated as to prevent
spillage of solid waste therefrom.
   (J)   Under no circumstances will the city collect hazardous waste. Special
waste will only be handled as per the applicable Kentucky Revised Statutes
promulgated by the Division of Waste Management.
(Ord. 531-04, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 50.04 DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE.
   Solid wastes shall be disposed of at a processing facility or disposal area
operated under the approval of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 531-04, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 50.05 FRANCHISE.
   The City of Wilmore has the exclusive authority to engage in the business of
collecting and transporting solid waste generated within the boundaries of the
city. No person, corporation, or a combination thereof shall be permitted to
engage in the collection or transportation of solid waste generated within the
annexed limits of the City of Wilmore, except those engaged in providing
service to facilities of the Jessamine County School System, or those who have
specific authorization from the city ( such as “rolloff vendors,” “compactor”
vendors).
(Ord. 531-04, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 50.06 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The city shall make, amend, revoke, and enforce reasonable and necessary
rules and regulations governing, but not limited to:
   (A)   Preparation, drainage, and wrapping of garbage deposited in solid
waste containers.
   (B)   Specifications for solid waste containers, including the type,
composition, equipment, size, and shape.
   (C)   Identification of solid waste containers and of the covers thereof,
and of equipment thereto appertaining, if any.
   (D)   Weight limitations on the combined weight of solid waste containers
and the contents thereof, and weight and size limitations on bundles of solid
waste too large for solid waste containers.
   (E)   Storage of solid waste in solid waste containers.
   (F)   Sanitation, maintenance and replacement of solid waste containers.
   (G)   Collection and disposal of solid waste.
   (H)   Handling of special wastes, such as ashes, agriculture, construction,
bulky items, tires, oils, greases, vehicle batteries, stoves, appliances and
the like.
(Ord. 531-04, passed 4-17-2004)
§ 50.07 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Deposit solid waste in any solid waste container other than their own
with the intent of avoiding payment of the service charge for solid waste
collection and disposal;
   (B)   Interfere in any manner with the solid waste collection equipment, or
with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance of their duties as such,
whether such equipment or collectors shall be those of the city;
   (C)   Burn solid waste;
   (D)   Dispose of solid waste at any facility or location which is not
approved;
   (E)   Engage in the business of collecting or transporting solid waste
generated within the annexed limits of the city.
(Ord. 531-04, passed 5-17-2004) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 SERVICE CHARGES AND BILLING.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed for the collection and disposal of solid waste
for each dwelling unit a service collection charge to be collected by the city.
The total fee for each dwelling unit shall be a line item charge on each
residential utility bill and shall be established by a Solid Waste Rate
ordinance. Any dwelling unit that has an exclusive water meter service shall
pay the current ordinance residential rate for garbage collection. The
privilege and responsibility for the collection and regulation of charges and
fees belongs to the Wilmore City Council; said billing fee shall be subject to
alteration according to city ordinances.
   (B)   The service collection charge for each commercial or business entity,
industrial or agricultural establishment or private institution, will be
determined by the city on the basis of quantity and characteristics of
material, point of pickup and the time required to collect the solid waste, and
shall be established by a Solid Waste Rate Ordinance.
   (C)   However, any commercial or business institution, industrial or
agricultural establishment, or private institution that cannot negotiate what
is felt to be a fair and equitable service collection charge may appeal to the
Wilmore City Council. Should the City Council’s decision need to be appealed,
the customer can request that the city provide an arbitrator to resolve the
service fee. The arbitrator’s fee will be shared evenly between the two
parties. Such arbitration shall be provided once each year and all pending
requests will be resolved at that time and all decisions of the arbitration
shall be binding on all parties.
   (D)   The privilege and responsibility of regulating and collecting such
service collection charges for each commercial or business entity, industrial
or agricultural establishment, or private institution belong to the city. Any
increase in residential service charges must be submitted to and approved by
the Wilmore City Council under the rules and regulations thereby governing.
(Ord. 531-04, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or any lawful
rules or regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, upon conviction, shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $10 or more than $100; provided that each
day’s violation thereof shall be a separate offense for the purpose thereof.
The failure of any residential or commercial customer to pay that portion of
their utility bill that sets out the service collection fee for solid waste
shall result in that city utilities customer’s water service being shut off as
of the monthly termination date for said payment. The city shall not accept
partial payments toward these bills except in special circumstances authorized
by the city and will not in any event accept a payment for all utilities except
for garbage collection.
(Ord. 531-04, passed 5-17-2004)
CHAPTER 51: PUBLIC SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Severability
Use of Public Sewers
   
51.10   Mandatory sewer connections
   
51.11   Unlawful discharge to storm sewers or natural outlets
   
51.12   Compliance with local, state and federal laws
   
51.13   Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewer
   
51.14   Prohibited discharges
   
51.15   Public sewer not available
   
51.16   Requirements for installation of private wastewater disposal
Enforcement
   
51.25   General
   
51.26   Notice of violation
   
51.27   Administrative orders
   
51.28   Show cause hearing
   
51.29   Additional enforcement remedies
   
51.30   Violations; written notice
   
51.31   Revocation of permit
   
51.32   Destruction of POTW prohibited
   
51.33   Legal action
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LETTER OF CREDIT. An instrument issued pursuant and subject to The Uniform
Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits, 2007 Revision, ICC Publication
No. 600, as may be revised from time to time, which automatically renews from
year to year unless written notice is given to the beneficiary by personal
delivery during usual business hours or by recognized overnight carrier at
least 90 days in advance of its stated expiration date that it will not be
renewed and which is subject to partial drafts by the beneficiary.
   OFFENDER. A person who has violated the terms of this chapter.
   PERSON. Means and includes, without limitation, individuals, corporations of
any kind, partnerships of any kind, limited liability companies of any kind,
companies of any kind, associations of any kind, joint stock companies, bodies-
politic, societies of any kind, communities of any kind, and the public
generally.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). The system which collects the
wastewater from the building, conveys the wastewater to the treatment facility
and the facility that treats the wastewater including all appurtenances
thereto.
   USER. Both the owner and/or the occupant of the property on which a building
is located.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2010)
§ 51.02 SEVERABILITY.
   Where a court of proper jurisdiction holds an individual provision(s) or
part(s) of a provision(s) of this chapter conflicts with or is superseded by
applicable federal or state law, remaining provisions, or parts thereof, not
found to be conflicting shall continue to be interpreted as controlling law and
be enforceable.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2010)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.10 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes (hereinafter, collectively,
“buildings”), situated within Jessamine County and abutting on any street,
alley, right-of-way or sanitary sewer easement in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the Jessamine-South
Elkhorn Water District (hereinafter JSEWD), is hereby required at the owner’s
expense to install suitable toilet facilities and wastewater disposal
facilities therein, and to connect the facilities directly with the proper
public sanitary sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within
180 days after the date of official notice to do so from the JSEWD, provided
that the public sewer is within 100 feet of the owner’s property line. In the
event the public sewer is within 100 feet of the owner’s property line and the
necessary easement for a lateral extension therefrom does not otherwise exist,
and in the further event the installing property owner, after exercising
reasonable efforts, is unable to obtain such easement right by agreement, then
the JSEWD shall obtain the necessary easement for the lateral. In the further
event of a determination of a health hazard by the Jessamine County Health
Officer, connection to the public sanitary sewer may be directed by JSEWD where
technically feasible notwithstanding the location of the sewer in relation to
the property. Every owner and/or user of the public sanitary sewer shall timely
pay their monthly bill as indicated on the monthly billing.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater where public sanitary sewer service is available, as defined in
division (A) above, except as provided for in §
51.15 and
51.16.
   (C)   At the time that a public sanitary sewer becomes available to a
property served by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection
shall be made to the public system within 180 days after date of official
notice to do so from JSEWD in compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   Farmsteads, as presently defined by KRS 211.015(1)(b), are exempted
from compliance with the provisions of this chapter. However, in the event of a
determination of a health hazard by the Jessamine County Health Officer,
connection to the public sanitary sewer may be directed by JSEWD where
technically feasible notwithstanding whether or not the property is a
farmstead.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-3-2010) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge, place, deposit or
permit to be deposited any pollutant, wastewater or other polluted waters on
public or private property within the county, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the JSEWD or into any conduit which connects to the storm sewer
system of the JSEWD, except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge, place, deposit or permit to be
deposited into any natural outlet within the county or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the JSEWD, any pollutant, wastewater or other polluted waters,
except where suitable treatment or management has been provided in accordance
with subsequent provisions of this chapter,
   (C)   No provision of this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person
of a discharge, placement, or deposit permitting a deposit into any natural
outlet or storm sewer or on public or private property within the county in any
area under the jurisdiction of the JSEWD of the responsibility for complying
with applicable state and federal regulations governing the discharge.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2005; Am. Ord. 8-3-2010) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.12 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   The discharge of any wastewater into the public sewer system by any person
is unlawful except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and any
more stringent state or federal standards or those promulgated pursuant to the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, the Clean Water Act of
1977, and subsequent amendments, and 40 C.F.R. 403.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2005; Am. Ord. 8-3-2010) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.13 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS INTO SEWER.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge, cause to be discharged, placed, deposit
or permit to be deposited, through any leak, defect, connection or otherwise,
any unpolluted waters such as, but not limited to stormwater, groundwater, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling water into any sanitary sewer, building
sewer, building drain or building plumbing. If reasonable cause exists to
suspect that any one of the foregoing infractions is occurring, the JSEWD shall
have the right, at any time, to inspect the inside or outside of buildings or
smoke test for connections, leaks or defects to building sewers and plumbing
and require disconnection or repair of any pipes carrying this water to the
building sewer or plumbing. At all times, the JSEWD shall give reasonable
notice to the property owner before undertaking the above mentioned
inspections. No sanitary drain sump or sump pump discharge by manual switch-
over of discharge connection shall have a dual use for removal of this water.
   (B)   The owners of any building sewers having such connections, leaks,
defects, or otherwise shall bear all costs incidental to removal of the sources
(including without limitation all attorney’s fees and court costs) incurred by
JSEWD.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-3-2010) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.14 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall contribute, permit to be contributed or cause to be
contributed, directly or indirectly, any polluted waters, pollutant, or
wastewater which will interfere with the performance of or pass through the
operation of the publicly owned treatment works (hereinafter POTW). These
general prohibitions apply to any person, including all users of a POTW,
whether or not the user is subject to National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or any other national, state or local pretreatment standards or
requirements.
   (B)   No person shall contribute the following substances to the POTW:
      (l)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are or may be sufficient, either alone or by interaction with other
substances, to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall the wastewater exhibit a
closed cup flashpoint of less than 140° Fahrenheit or 60° Centigrade using the
test methods specified in 4O C.F.R. 261.21;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0 or higher than 10.5
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the POTW;
      (3)   Any slug load of pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants
(biochemical oxygen demand and the like), released at a flow rate and/or
concentration that will cause interference with the normal operation of the
POTW;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the POTW;
      (5)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, or wastewater
with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW that will result in a
treatment plant influent temperature which exceeds 40°C (104°F);
      (6)   Any pollutant(s) which result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems;
      (7)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scum, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the
POTW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or
disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act;
any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the
Toxic Substances Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used;
      (8)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (hereinafter NPDES)/Kentucky Pollution
Discharge Elimination Systems (hereinafter KPDES) permit and/or sludge disposal
system permit; or
      (9)    Any trucked or hauled pollutants except at discharge points
designated by the POTW. (Ord. passed 10-4-2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-3-2010)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.15 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§§
51.10 through
51.14, the building sewer shall be connected, until the public sewer is
available, to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of the County Health Department and all applicable local and state
regulations.
   (B)   The owner of the building shall operate and maintain the private
sewage disposal facilities in a manner at all times consistent and in
compliance with all applicable local, state and federal laws and regulations,
at no expense to the JSEWD.
   (C)   No statement contained in this section or §
51.16 shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may
be imposed by applicable federal, local or state regulations.
   (D)   Industries with current NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge at permitted
discharge points, provided they are in compliance of the issuing authority.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-3-2010) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION OF PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all applicable federal, local or state regulations.
   (B)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the local
and state authorities.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2005; Am. Ord. 8-3-2010)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.25 GENERAL.
   (A)   The JSEWD, to ensure compliance with this chapter, and as permitted
through 40 C.F.R. Subchapter N, and 401 KAR 5:055, may take the enforcement
steps enumerated herein against any person in noncompliance with this chapter:
injunctive relief. These enforcement steps are not exclusive of each other such
that the use of 1 prevents the simultaneous or later use of 1 or more of the
others. The authority for the enforcement of this chapter shall be vested in
the JSEWD.
   (B)   The JSEWD may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a
wastewater contribution permit without notice, when a suspension without notice
is necessary in the sole and unfettered opinion of the JSEWD, in order to stop
an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, causes interference to the POTW or causes the JSEWD to violate any
condition of any NPDES/KPDES permit.
   (C)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service
and/or the wastewater contribution permit shall immediately stop or eliminate
the contribution. In the event of a failure of the user to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the JSEWD shall take steps as deemed necessary in
its sole and unfettered discretion, including immediate severance of the sewer
connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to
any individuals. The JSEWD shall reinstate the wastewater contribution permit
and/or the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the
noncomplying discharge. A detailed written statement submitted by the user
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence shall be submitted to the JSEWD within 15 days of
the date of occurrence.
(Ord, passed 10-4-2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-3-2010) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter, wastewater
permit or any order issued hereunder, shall be served by the JSEWD with written
notice pursuant to §
51.30 herein, unless expressly not required herein, stating the nature of the
violations and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations. Within 10 days of the receipt date of
this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention thereof within a specified period of time, to include
specific required actions, shall be submitted to the JSEWD. Submission of this
plan in no way relieves the offender of potential liability for any violation
occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-3-2010) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.27 ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.
   (A)   Any person who, after receiving a notice of violation, continues to
discharge in violation of this chapter or other pretreatment standards or
requirements or is determined to be a chronic or persistent offender or who is
determined to be a significant offender shall be ordered to appear before the
JSEWD. At the appearance, a compliance schedule will be given to such person
and a civil penalty may be assessed. The fine shall be determined on a case-by-
case basis which shall consider the type and severity of violations, duration
of violation, number of violations, severity of impact on the POTW, impact on
human health, the offender’s economic benefit from violation, history of
violations, and good faith of the offender and shall be a non-arbitrary but
appropriate amount.
   (B)   The administrative order may take any of the following 3 forms:
      (1)   Consent orders. The JSEWD is hereby empowered to enter into consent
orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
These orders will include specific action to be taken by the offender to
correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as orders issued pursuant
to division (B)(3) below.
      (2)   Compliance orders. When the JSEWD finds that a person has violated
or continues to violate the chapter or a permit or order issued thereunder, it
may issue an order to the offender responsible for the discharge directing
that, following a specified time period, sewer service shall be discontinued
unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances
have been installed and are properly operated. Orders may also contain other
requirements as might be reasonably necessary and appropriate to address the
noncompliance, including the installation of pretreatment technology,
additional self-monitoring, and management practices.
      (3)   Cease and desist orders.
         (a)   When the JSEWD finds that any person has violated or continues
to violate this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, the JSEWD may
issue an order to cease and desist all these violations and direct those
persons in noncompliance to:
            1.   Comply forthwith; or
            2.   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and terminating the discharge.
         (b)   Cease and desist orders may be issued by the JSEWD or its staff
without notice and prior hearing as required above.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-3-2010) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.28 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The JSEWD may issue to any person who causes or contributes to causing
of violations of this chapter, wastewater permit or order issued hereunder, an
order to appear and show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. A notice shall be served on the offender specifying the time and
place of a hearing to be held by the JSEWD regarding the violation, the reasons
why the action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and directing
the offender to show cause, before the JSEWD, why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served
personally or by first class mail, postage prepaid at least 10 days before the
hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer of the offender.
   (B)   The JSEWD may itself, or by designated representative, conduct the
hearing and take the evidence and:
      (1)   Issue, in the name of the JSEWD, notices of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in the hearing; and
      (2)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the JSEWD
Board of Commissioners for action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded, will be
made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the preparation charges thereof.
   (D)   After the JSEWD has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an order to
the offender responsible for the discharge directing that, following a
specified time period, the sewer service will be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are properly
operated. Further orders and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be
issued.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-3-2010)
§ 51.29 ADDITIONAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Performance bonds or letters of credit. The JSEWD may decline to
reissue a permit to any user which has failed to comply with the provisions of
this chapter or any order or previous permit issued hereunder unless the user
first files with it a satisfactory bond or letter of credit payable to JSEWD in
a sum not to exceed a value determined by the JSEWD, in its sole and unfettered
discretion, to be necessary to achieve consistent compliance. The JSEWD may
determine in its sole and unfettered discretion whether the user posted a
performance bond or a letter of credit.
   (B)   Liability insurance. The JSEWD may decline to reissue a permit to any
user which has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any
order or previous permit issued hereunder, unless the user first submits proof
that it has obtained financial assurances sufficient to restore or repair POTW
damage caused by its discharge.
   (C)   Termination of water service. The JSEWD may take all necessary steps
to terminate the water service of any person who violates any provision of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-3-2010) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.30 VIOLATIONS; WRITTEN NOTICE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, any person found to be
violating any provision of this chapter or a wastewater permit or order issued
hereunder shall be served, either personally or by first class mail, postage
prepaid, by the JSEWD, with written notice stating the nature of the violation
as provided herein. The offender shall permanently remedy all violations upon
receipt of this notice. Such notice shall be deemed received by the person upon
actual receipt, personal delivery to the person’s personal or business address
or 3 days following deposit of the notice in the U.S. Mail.
   (B)   As contained in §§
51.25 through
51.29, the notice may be of several forms. Also as contained in those sections,
penalties of various forms may be levied against any person for violation of
this chapter. The penalties, if levied, shall range from publication of
violators in the focal newspaper to fines of at least $5,000 per day per
violation or criminal charges.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-3-2010) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.31 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person violating provisions of this chapter or user violating a
wastewater permit order issued hereunder may be subject to termination of its
authority to discharge sewage into POTW. This termination may be immediate and
without notice as expressly provided herein if necessary for the protection of
the POTW. The user or person may also have water service terminated.
   (B)   Any user, who violates the following conditions of this chapter, or
applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to having their permit
revoked in accordance with the procedures of this chapter and/or their water
service terminated:
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of the discharge;
      (2)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-3-2010) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.32 DESTRUCTION OF POTW PROHIBITED.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the POTW. Any person(s) violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. It
shall be noted that the Clean Water Act and this chapter do not require proof
of specific intent to obtain conviction.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-3-2010) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.33 LEGAL ACTION.
   (A)   General. If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other
wastes into the JSEWD’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions
of this chapter, federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any order of
the JSEWD, the JSEWD may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or
equitable relief in the appropriate court of this jurisdiction, and the JSEWD
may collect all attorney’s fees and court costs from such person which were
incurred in the action.
   (B)   Injunctive relief. Whenever any person has violated or continues to
violate the provisions of this chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, the
JSEWD, through legal counsel, may petition the court for the issuance of a
preliminary or permanent injunction or both (as may be appropriate) which
restrains or compels the activities on the part of the person. The JSEWD shall
have the same remedies to collect these fees as it has to collect other sewer
service charges. The JSEWD shall be entitled to also collect all attorney’s
fees and court costs related to the foregoing enforcement actions against the
offender.
   (C)   Lien.
      (1)   JSEWD shall have a lien against the property of an owner for
damages and expenses (including, without limitation, attorney’s fees and court
costs) incurred or levied hereunder by JSEWD for violations by the owner/and or
the occupant of the property. Furthermore, JSEWD shall have a lien against the
property of an owner for fines levied hereunder against the owner and/or
occupant of the property.
      (2)   A sworn lien statement evidencing the amount of the damages,
expenses, and fines shall be recorded to the Jessamine County Clerk’s office
describing the property against which the lien is imposed and a copy of the
lien statement shall be mailed, U.S, Mail, first class-postage prepaid, to the
owner and the occupant at their last known mailing addresses.
   (D)   Appeals. Any person claiming to be aggrieved by any final action of
the Board of Commissioners of the JSEWD shall appeal from the action to the
Jessamine Circuit Court and such appeal shall be taken within 30 days after the
final action. All final actions which have not been appealed within 30 days
shall not be subject to judicial review. Final action shall be deemed to have
occurred on the calendar date when JSEWD votes to approve or disapprove a
request; issue an administrative order or directive, or impose a fine.
   (E)   Staff actions. The Board of Commissioners of the JSEWD shall have the
power to hear and decide matters where it is alleged by a person that there is
error in any order, requirement, decision, grant or refusal made by a member of
the staff or an agent of the JSEWD. Such appeals shall be taken within 30 days
of such actions. Failure to do so shall render such action not subject to
judicial review.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-3-2010) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   (a)   Any person who has violated or continues to violate this
chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, shall be liable to JSEWD for a
civil penalty of not more than $5,000 per day plus actual damages incurred by
the JSEWD per violation per day for as long as the violation continues.
         (b)   Each day in which the violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense. In addition to the above described penalty and damages, the
JSEWD may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, court reporter’s
fees, and other expenses associated with the enforcement activities, including
without limitation sampling and monitoring expenses.
      (2)   The JSEWD may impose, assess and recover the aforementioned sums.
In determining the amount of liability, the JSEWD shall take into account all
relevant circumstances, including but not limited to the extent of harm caused
by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any economic benefit gained
through the offender’s violation, corrective actions by the offender, the
compliance history of the offender, and any other factor as justice requires.
   (B)   Criminal prosecution.
      (1)   Any person who willfully or negligently violates any provision of
this chapter or any orders of permits issued hereunder shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $5,000 per
violation per day or imprisonment for not more than 1 year or both.
      (2)   Any person who knowingly and/or negligently makes any false
statements, representation or certification of any application, record, report,
plan or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this
chapter or wastewater contribution permit, or who falsifies, tampers with or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than $5,000 or by
imprisonment for not more than 12 months, or by both.
      (3)    In the event of a second conviction, the person shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $10,000 per violation per day or
imprisonment for not more than 3 years, or both.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-3-2010)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   [RESERVED]
         
71.   PARKING
CHAPTER 70: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 71: PARKING
Section
   
71.01   Parking prohibited at all times
§ 71.01 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle or permit any motor
vehicle to stand or to wait at any time in any of the places under the heading
"Location" as set forth herein, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic, or in compliance with the directions of a law enforcement
officer or a traffic control device.
 
Street      Location
Corman Lane Both sides, except in designated public parking areas
 
   (B)   Violators may be cited to the county district court by peace officers
of the County Sheriff’s Office.
   (C)   Violators may be fined up to $200 for each violation.
   (D)   The County Sheriff, and his or her designated deputy, upon a personal
determination that citing violators to court may not remove the immediate
safety hazard posed by vehicles parking illegally, may also have any offending
vehicle(s) towed at the owner’s expense, in addition to citing them for
violation of this section.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2018)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
         
92.   NOISE CONTROL
         
93.   NUISANCES; HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
         
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
95.   COUNTY-OWNED PROPERTY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Powers of Animal Control
   
90.03   Restriction to property of owner
   
90.04   Canine licensing
   
90.05   Harboring a vicious canine
   
90.06   Liability of owner
   
90.07   Wild and exotic animals
   
90.08   Humane treatment of animals
   
90.09   Adoptions and mandatory spay/neuter
   
90.10   Microchipping animals
   
90.11   Rabies vaccinations
   
90.12   Livestock running at large
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Any canine or livestock left more than 24 hours without a person
checking on the condition of the canine or livestock and providing food and
potable water or not providing an automatic feeder/waterer. Any canine or
livestock left on private property without the owner’s consent or deserted or
dumped on public property or roadways.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. Wholesome food suitable for the species provided at suitable
intervals in a sanitary manner in quantities sufficient to maintain good health
in an animal, considering its age and condition.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. Shall be provided to any canine(s) that remains outside.
The shelter must be suitable for the species, age, and condition of the animal,
The shelter shall:
      (1)   be structurally sound, with a solid floor, enclosed sides or walls,
and must be properly ventilated. The shelter shall be sanitary and weather/
waterproof. Suitable drainage must be provided so that water is not standing in
or around the structure;
      (2)   be small enough to allow the animal’s body heat to warm the
interior of the structure but be large enough to allow the animal to stand up,
turn around, and lie down without touching the walls;
      (3)   be made from suitable, appropriate, materials to prevent harm or
injury to the animal(s);
      (4)   provide access to shade from direct sunlight and regress from
exposure to inclement weather conditions, hot or cold, but which does not
exacerbate existing weather conditions; and
      (5)   placed in an area offering the best available protection from
inclement weather, hot or cold.
   ADEQUATE VENTILATION. Proper airflow and circulation by mechanical, natural,
or other means that provide a constant exchange of air, with fresh, clean,
oxygenated air replacing the contaminated, dirty, un-oxygenated air within a
confined space.
   ADEQUATE VETERINARY CARE. An appropriate level of professional medical care
and treatment by a veterinarian licensed by the Kentucky Board of Veterinary
Examiners to maintain the proper health and condition of an animal as
determined by its breed and age.
   ADEQUATE WARMTH. Sufficient, comfortable degree of temperature of a confined
space or containment area that will not lower nor raise the average body
temperature as appropriate for the species.
   ADEQUATE WATER. A supply of clean, fresh, potable water provided on a
continual basis in a sanitary manner suitable for the condition, and age of the
animal. The supply shall be in sufficient amounts to maintain good health in
the animal, and in a suitable container secured to prevent-turnover.
   ANIMAL. Any live domesticated vertebrate creature
   ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL. The department of the Jessamine County Fiscal Court
which is designated by the Fiscal Court that is responsible for the operation
the Jessamine County Animal Shelter and the enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter, KRS Chapter 258, and Kentucky Revised Statutes pertaining to
animal cruelty.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person designated by the Director of Animal
Control who is qualified to perform the duties under the laws and ordinances of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the county and all peace officers with
jurisdiction in unincorporated areas of Jessamine County or any incorporated
area of Jessamine County where there is an inter-local agreement for
enforcement of local animal control ordinances. An ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER shall
be a law enforcement officer for the purposes of animal control only as
established in KRS 436.605 and KRS 258.195.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility used to house or contain animals, operated or
maintained by a governmental body, incorporated humane society, animal welfare
society, society for the prevention of cruelty to animals, or other non-profit
organization as established in KRS 258.095.
   ANIMAL WELFARE GROUP. Any nan-profit organization incorporated in Kentucky
as a humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention of
cruelty to animals, or other non-profit organization established for the
purposes of caring for, housing and adopting stray or unwanted animals.
   ATTACK. An act by a canine that without provocation causes bodily injury to
a human being, livestock, and domestic animal by attempting to bite or biting.
This definition shall not apply to an attack by a dog that is protecting the
property or life of its owner(s) or the attack of a person who has illegally
entered or is trespassing on the dog owner’s property in violation of KRS
511.060 through 511.090.
   BEATING. To strike an animal repeatedly and injuriously.
   BITE. A wound caused by the bite of an animal which causes puncture wounds.
   CANINE. In its singular or plural form shall refer to a domesticated
carnivorous animal identified as canis familiaris.
   CANINE LICENSE. A license that is issued by Jessamine County Animal Care and
Control or its representatives for ail canines owned or harbored within the
unincorporated area of Jessamine County or any incorporated area of Jessamine
County. The license identifier shall be a microchip or identifying integrated
circuit placed under the skin of a canine which is implanted into the canine’s
skin. The microchip shall use passive radio frequency identification
technology. At the time of licensure the owner of any canine shall have the
option to not have their canine implanted with a microchip and shall instead be
issued a serial numbered tag that shall be affixed to the canines collar at all
times.
   CONTROL. The ability to manage and direct the behavior of a dog, either by
leash or by observation and voice command.
   DAY. For the purposes of this chapter, a 24 hour period shall constitute a
day.
   DIRECTOR OF ANIMAL CARE & CONTROL. The person approved by the Fiscal Court
as the Chief Officer of Animal Care & Control.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Animals that are habituated to live in or about the
habitations of human beings, and which are kept, cared for, sheltered, fed, or
harbored for use as a pet.
   DWELLING. The house or other structure in which a human being lives.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal not indigenous to the United States.
   EXTREME WEATHER CONDITIONS. Periods of time when weather conditions are such
that a heat warning or wind chill warning is issued by the National Weather
Service.
   FELINE. (Animals) of, relating to, or belonging to the Felidae, a family of
predatory mammals, including cats.
   KILLING. To cause the death of an animal unless as authorized by the
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses or any other animals of the
bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, or equine species.
   LOT. Any parcel or tract of real estate in Jessamine County of which there
is a deed or plat recorded in the County Clerk’s office.
   MUTILATING. To inflict a violent and disfiguring injury upon an animal.
   NECESSITIES. Food, water, space, healthcare and shelter.
   OVERLOAD. To load to excess; overburden.
   OVERWORK. To cause to work too hard, too much, or too long; weary or exhaust
with work.
   OWNER. In its singular or plural form shall be defined as any person owning
or harboring a canine through license, evidence of vaccination, breeding,
selling, feeding or sheltering a dog or dogs on a regular basis. Knowledge of
such evidence of ownership by members of the owner’s community or neighborhood
shall be admissible in any court proceeding regarding guilt or innocence as to
a violation of this chapter.
   PARAPHERNALIA, ANIMAL FIGHTING. Any weighted collars, slat mills, carpet
mills, fighting pens, permanent or temporary, injectable or ingestible drugs
and supplements used to enhance fighting, spring poles, or weight pull
harnesses and equipment that is discovered by probable cause or search warrant
during the investigation of a cruelty complaint.
   PERSON. All natural persons, acting solely as an individual or part of
corporations, partnerships, firms, associations, governmental bodies, agencies,
and other entities.
   PROPERTY. Real estate, residential lot, dwelling or farm owned, rented or
occupied by a person owning or harboring a canine.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any at-large canine or canine under direct control of its
owner or a handler
which:
      (1)   Is repeatedly molesting passers-by and/or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks people or other animals;
      (3)   Damages public or private property;
      (4)   Is repeatedly running at large;
      (5)   Creates unsanitary conditions;
      (6)   A home, residence, building, shed, yard, property, or other
establishment that contains excessive amounts of feces and/or urine, or exudes
a foul odor.
   STRAY. Any animal found running at large and not under the control of its
owner or person that is harboring the animal within the unincorporated area of
Jessamine County or any incorporated area of Jessamine County where there is an
inter-local agreement for enforcement of local animal control ordinances. A
hound or other hunting dog which has been released from confinement for hunting
purposes shall be deemed to be under reasonable control of its owner or handler
while engaged in or returning from hunting, and, if a hunting dog becomes
temporarily lost from a pack or wanders from actual control or sight of its
owner or handler, the owner shall not be deemed to be in violation of the
provisions of this chapter as a result of the dog’s having become temporarily
lost or having wandered from immediate control or sight of the owner or handler
as established in KRS 258.215.
   TORTURING. The act of inflicting excruciating pain upon an animal, as
punishment or revenge.
   VETERINARIAN. One licensed by The Kentucky Board of Veterinary Examiners and
qualified to treat diseases and injuries of animals.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL CLINIC. Any establishment maintained and operated by a
veterinarian licensed by the Kentucky Board of Veterinary Examiners for
surgery, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and injuries of animals.
   VICIOUS CANINE. The following actions may be used as part of a criminal
complaint and/or evidentiary hearing before a District Judge for a finding of
fact that a canine is a danger to the public health and safety of the residents
incorporated and unincorporated areas of Jessamine County.
      (1)   Any canine which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or
domestic animals which, due to a known propensity to endanger life, by an
unprovoked assault or bite which has resulted in bodily harm;
      (2)   Any canine which, when unprovoked, approaches in a terrorizing
manner, any person in an attitude of attack upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds or places;
      (3)   Any canine with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
unprovoked attacks which cause injury or endanger the safety of human beings or
domestic animals;
      (4)   Any canine which bites multiple times to the extent of causing
injury and assaults or otherwise attacks human beings or domestic animals;
      (5)   Any canine owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of fighting with animals.
      (6)   It shall be prima facie evidence that a canine is vicious if the
animal bites a human being or domestic animal more than once in the same
attack.
      (7)   Exceptions. A canine shall not be deemed vicious solely because:
         (a)   It bites, attacks, or menaces:
            1.   Any person assaulting its owner;
            2.   Any person or animal who has tormented or abused it;
            3.   Any person that has illegally entered or is trespassing on the
canine owner’s property in violation of KRS 511.060 through 511.090; or
            4.   Any person who has been invited or entered the canine owner’s
property for legal reasons;
         (b)   It is otherwise acting in defense of any attack from a person or
other animal upon its owner or another person;
         (c)   It is protecting or defending its young or the young of any
other animal; or
         (d)   Its breed or assumed/known component of its breed.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any species of animal not normally domesticated by human
beings, including but not limited to ail bears, lions, tigers, cougars,
leopards, coyote, wolves, hybrid wolves, wolverines, badgers elephants and
rhinoceros.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2015)
§ 90.02 POWERS OF ANIMAL CONTROL.
   (A)   The Director and all sworn officers of Animal Care and Control shall
have the powers of a peace officer with the exception of arrest for the
purposes of enforcing animal control laws or ordinances in Jessamine County if
they otherwise qualify as a peace officer under the laws of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky as established in KRS 258.195 and KRS 436.505.
   (B)   All Officers of Animal Control shall comply with KRS 61.300.
   (C)   Whenever it is necessary for Animal Control Officers to make an
inspection or investigation in order to enforce any provision of this chapter
or any other applicable state statute, they are hereby empowered to enter
property when consent of the owner or occupant of the property is freely given,
a search warrant is obtained or such exigent circumstances exist that a
warrantless, non-consensual search is required.
   (D)   All canines of any age running at large, as defined in this chapter,
and found within Jessamine County, may be picked up by Animal Control Officers
and impounded in the animal shelter. In the event the canine is impounded the
owner shall be charged a return to owner fee set by the Fiscal Court. Prior to
the release of any animal from the animal shelter for a violation of the canine
running at large the owner of the canine shall show proof that the canine has a
Jessamine County Canine License. If the owner cannot provide proof of licensure
they shall be responsible for the associated fees. All canines shall be
injected with a microchip before release from the animal shelter. If Animal
Care and Control can reasonably return the canine they may do so and issue a
warning or citation to the owner.
   (E)   All animals of any age which have bitten a human being may be picked
up by Animal Care and Control and impounded in the animal shelter for any
applicable quarantine period. In the event an animal is impounded for a
quarantine period, the owner shall be responsible for a return to owner fee.
Prior to the release of any animal from the animal shelter the owner of the
canine shall show proof that the canine has a Jessamine County Canine License.
If the owner cannot provide proof of licensure they shall be responsible for
the associated fees and the canine shall be injected with a microchip before
release from the animal shelter.
   (F)   Any animal involved in an alleged violation of KRS 525.125, 525.130,
525.135 or any violation of §
90.08 of this chapter may be confiscated and held by any Animal Control or
peace officer in a humane manner. Upon taking custody of an animal pursuant to
KRS 525.125 or KRS 525.130. 525.135 or §
90.08 of this chapter. Animal Care and Control shall give notice of the seized
animal by posting a notice at the location where the animal is taken into
custody or by delivering notice to a person residing at the property. The
animal shall remain in the custody of the Fiscal Court until the accused is
given a hearing before a District Court Judge. Should that judge find probable
cause for a charge under KRS 525.125, 525.130, 525.135 or §
90.08 of this chapter the court may order temporary or permanent forfeiture of
the animal to Jessamine County Animal Care and Control.
      (1)   Upon a plea or finding of guilt, the animal may become the property
of the Jessamine County Fiscal Court. The person convicted for violating KRS
525.125, 525.130, 525.135 or §
90.08 of this chapter shall pay all expenses related to the incidents of
cruelty, including investigation, disposition, veterinary costs, and all costs
of maintaining or disposing of the animal incurred from the date of
confiscation up to and including the date of permanent forfeiture to the
Jessamine County Fiscal Court.
      (2)   Upon a dismissal of the charge or a finding of innocence, the
animal may be immediately returned to the owner. If the owner does not re-claim
the dog within five days of the dismissal or acquittal, the animal shall become
the property of the Jessamine County Fiscal Court and may be offered for
adoption, sale or may be euthanized at the discretion of the Director of Animal
Care and Control.
   (G)   Animal Control Officers are authorized to place, upon request of
property owners, live-capture animal traps on public or private property for
the purpose of trapping and removal of stray, at large, unwanted, or nuisance
domestic canines. It shall be unlawful for any person other than an Animal
Control Officer or his or her designee to remove a canine from the trap or to
damage, destroy, move or otherwise tamper with the trap.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2015)
§ 90.03 RESTRICTION TO PROPERTY OF OWNER.
   Any person owning, leasing, renting, occupying or having control of a lot,
parcel or tract of land in the county shall be subject to the following
provisions:
   (A)   An owner of a canine shall be responsible for restricting that canine
to the property of the owner 24 hours a day. Restricting a canine to the
property of the owner may be accomplished by way of leash, chain, leash and
running wire, fence (electrified or non-electrified), or any other means,
provided the means of restraint are calculated to restrict the canine to the
property of the owner in a reasonable and humane manner; and meeting the
requirements set forth in §
90.08(F).
   (B)   Any canine found upon public or private property outside the premises
of its owner that is not restrained or under its owner’s control shall be
presumed to be running at large and in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Any canine found upon public or private property outside the premises
of its owner that is not restrained or under its owner’s control may be
impounded by an Animal Control Officer, as stipulated in KRS 258.215(1).
   (D)   Any canine impounded for a violation of this section shall be held at
the animai shelter for a period of five days. After the five day period has
expired the animal will become the property of the Jessamine County Fiscal
Court and shall be offered for adoption or may be euthanized at the discretion
of the Director of Animal Care and Control.
   (E)   This chapter shall not apply to a hound or hunting canine released
from confinement for the purpose of hunting as stipulated in KRS 258.215(2).
Furthermore, a canine left unattended in a motor vehicle by its owner shall be
deemed to be in compliance of this chapter for as long it remains in the
vehicle; and is in compliance with the stipulations established in §
90.08(G).
(Ord. passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 CANINE LICENSING.
   The purpose of the Canine Licensing Program is to provide informational data
that will help Jessamine County Animai Care and Control personnel to have the
ability to identify stray dogs, control over population of unwanted dogs and
insure the safe return of pets to their owners. This is done by the creation of
a computerized data base with detailed information of owners, age, breed,
marking, sex, and electronic ID of their pets. The key component of this
program is the insertion of a microchip for identification of dogs found
running at large that may have been picked up by JCACC officers or turned into
the shelter by private individuals. It is not intended in any way to violate
the constitutional rights of the owner. An owner is free at the time of initial
licensing to request that the chip not be included. Upon payment of the license
fee, renewal fee, or transfer fee if the owner chooses to not have their animal
implanted with a microchip the owner shall be issued a receipt of registration
and a serial numbered license tag for each canine, The license tag shall be
affixed to the canine’s collar and worn by the canine at all times.
   (A)   Effective July 1, 2015 the owners of all canines four months of age or
older or those who harbor or maintain canines in the unincorporated or
incorporated areas of Jessamine County shall have each and every canine
licensed with the Jessamine County Animal Care and Control in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The initial license fees and renewal fees for each canine shall be as
set forth in division (D) of this section. The license fee period shall begin
from date of purchase. Each license shall expire at the end of calendar month
in which the license was purchased of the following year. Each license must be
renewed each year unless lifetime license is purchased as outlined in division
(D) of this section. Failure to license, or to renew a license, will result in
a penalty that is outlined in §
90.99. At the time of licensing and registration, the owner shall provide his
or her name, address, driver’s license number or Kentucky Identification Card
and telephone number, as well as the name, breed, color and sex of each canine
to be licensed. Upon payment of the license fee, the owner shall be issued a
receipt of registration and a serial numbered microchip that shall be implanted
in each canine or serial numbered tag that shall be affixed to the canines
collar at all times. Owners that request their canine to not be implanted with
a microchip shall be required to affix the issued serial numbered tag to the
collar of the canine at all times.
   (C)   A canine that has previously been implanted with a microchip prior to
the adoption of this chapter it shall be subject to the license fees as set
forth in division (D) of this section. There shall be no fee for canines that
are current on licensing and have transferred ownership.
   (D)   Canine license fee schedule.
 
Classification                                                                   Fee    Veterinarian
                                                                                        Portion
1.   Lifetime license: to qualify for this license your canine must have a
microchip and be altered. Registration good for the life of the canine. Must     $50.00 $35.00
provide proof from a licensed veterinarian that surgical alteration has been
performed.
2.   Altered canine license: to qualify canine must be altered. Maybe microchip
or collar tag. Registration renewable every year. Must provide proof from a      $10.00 $2.00
licensed veterinarian that surgical alteration has been performed.
3.   Un-altered canine license: may be microchip or collar tag. Registration  $20.00 $2.00
renewable every year.
4.   Altered multi canine license: owners of 4 or more altered canines. May be
microchip or collar tag. Registration renewable every year. Must provide proof   $40.00 $2.00
from a licensed veterinarian that surgical alteration has been performed.
5.   Un-altered multi canine license: owners of 4 or more un-altered canines. $50.00 $2.00
May be microchip or collar tag. Registration renewable every year.
6.   Not for profit humane societies or animal rescue groups:                 Exempt Exempt
 
   (E)   All registrations require compliance with the Jessamine County Code of
Ordinances §
90.11 Rabies Vaccinations. Proof of rabies vaccination shall be required prior
to being licensed. If proof cannot be provided the owner may purchase a voucher
from Jessamine County Animal Care and Control.
   (F)   Failure to register a dog and to obtain the license set forth herein
within 30 days of acquiring or possessing the animal, or failure to renew by
end of calendar month of purchase each year thereafter shall result in a fine
as provided in §
90.99.
   (G)   Owners of canines four months of age or older or those who harbor or
maintain canines in the unincorporated or incorporated areas of Jessamine
County may purchase their license at the Jessamine County Animal Shelter or at
participating veterinarian offices. Veterinarians that participate in the sales
of licenses shall be required to gather necessary information and forward to
Jessamine County Animal Care and Control within seven days of issue.
Participating veterinarians that issue a license that requires a microchip may
at their discretion use microchips provided by Jessamine County Animal Care and
Control or a microchip of their choice. Participating veterinarians shall
receive a portion of the sales of microchips sold at their facility as outlined
in division (D) of this section.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 HARBORING A VICIOUS CANINE.
   Any person owning, leasing, renting, occupying or having control of a lot,
parcel or tract of land within the unincorporated area of Jessamine County or
any incorporated area of Jessamine County shall be subject to the following
provisions:
   (A)   Any person who is attacked by a canine without provocation may file a
criminal complaint against the canine’s owner in district court for the purpose
of declaring the canine as vicious.
   (B)   Any owner of a vicious canine shall keep the canine securely confined
24 hours a day in an enclosed pen of sufficient height and strength to prevent
escape or under the owner’s personal control by leash when outside of its
confined area.
   (C)   Any vicious canine found upon public or private property outside the
premises of its owner, that is not restrained or controlled, may be impounded
or destroyed by an Animal Control Officer or the owner upon whose property the
canine is found running at large.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   An owner shall be liable under this chapter for damages caused when a canine
not under control leaves the property of the owner, whether or not the canine
enters or remains upon the property of a public or private property owner.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to sell, own, harbor or keep as a pet, a wild or exotic
animal, not indigenous to the United States, unless the animal has been
approved for sale or retention by appropriate state and federal governmental
agencies and any required permits have been obtained.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 HUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to abandon any canine or livestock.
      (1)   In the event that a canine or livestock is found abandoned, such
canine or livestock may be seized by an Animal Control Officer or peace
officer, and impounded at the animal shelter or at an alternate location
designated by the Director of Animal Care and Control. Such canine or
livestock, if taken from private property shall be kept for not less than the
prescribed period in accordance with the procedures set forth in KRS 258.215 or
§
90.12 of this chapter, or for any longer period required by law, regulation, or
medical necessity. In the event a canine or livestock is so abandoned, the
owner or person, if any, who he/she has charged with the canine’s or
livestock’s care, shall be subject to a criminal prosecution for any violation
of this section.
      (2)   Any canine found not under restraint without a rabies vaccination
tag or up to date with a county license, or any canine found in a condition
that requires immediate veterinary care, shall be presumed to be abandoned, and
shall be seized and held at the Jessamine County Animal Shelter for a five day
period as prescribed in section §
90.03(D).
      (3)   Notice of seizure of an abandoned canine or livestock from private
property shall be posted on the premises from which the canine or livestock was
seized, which notice shall clearly state the agency name and telephone number
for the animal shelter.
   (B)   The owner of any canine shall be required to provide adequate food,
water, space, health care and shelter.
   (C)   The owner of any livestock shall be required to provide adequate food,
water, space, and health care.
   (D)   The owner of any feline shall be required to provide adequate food,
water, space and health care.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to inhumanely treat any canine or
feline, including, but not limited to, the deprivation of necessities, beating,
mutilating, torturing, killing, overloading, overworking, or otherwise abusing
any canine or feline. Nothing herein shall prevent Animal Care and Control from
humanely euthanizing any canine or feline to prevent the prolonged suffering of
the canine or feline.
   (F)   Any canine which is chained, tied or otherwise restrained shall be
provided no less than ten feet or chain or cable and the like with a swivel
attached to prevent entanglement. The tether shall be secured to a fixed
immobile point that allows freedom of movement while withstanding the force
necessary to restrain the canine. Canines shall not be tethered by use of a
training collar or on any collar too small for the size and age of the canine,
or of such unreasonable weight as to prevent the canine from moving about
freely. The chain or cable shall be attached to the canine using a collar
constructed of nylon or leather. Canines shall only be tethered in an area that
is free of objects which could become tangled in the tether.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep a canine or feline within
the passenger compartment of an automobile without adequate ventilation in the
summer or adequate warmth in the winter. No person shall enclose any canine or
feline in the trunk of an automobile. An Animal Control Officer or Peace
Officer has authority to enter such motor vehicle by any reasonable means under
the circumstances after making a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other
person responsible. No person shall use any automobile as a permanent shelter
for canines or felines.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, cause, instigate,
permit, observe, or attend any dog-fight or other combat between canines or
between canines and humans. Canines altered for fighting purposes and animals
with scarring from previous fighting may be considered evidence of unlawful
canine combat.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to own, harbor, or be in
possession of any canine fighting paraphernalia.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set free any hare, rabbit,
gerbil, domesticated rat, guineas pig, other pet rodent, snake, lizard, turtle,
other pet reptile, or other animal for the purpose of violating any provision
of this chapter.
   (K)   Any person, who as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal, shall stop at once and render assistance as may be possible and shall
immediately report such injury or death to the animal’s owner, if known, or to
Animal Control or any Peace Officer.
   (L)   No person shall expose any toxic, poisonous or illegal substance,
whether mixed with food or not, so that the same shall be likely to be eaten by
a domestic animal.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful to place an animal in the open bed of a parked
vehicle unrestrained.
   (N)   It shall be unlawful to allow canines to remain outdoors during
extreme weather conditions. Canines, must be moved indoors or to an area that
provides protection from the extreme weather condition.
   (O)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or handler that has direct visual
control of a canine on or off leash to allow said animal to intimidate, harass
or worry another canine that is on it’s own owner’s property.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 ADOPTIONS AND MANDATORY SPAY/NEUTER.
   (A)   Prior to the adoption of any animal from the animal shelter an
application must be completed by the person wishing to adopt the animal. The
application is designed to determine the prospective owner’s ability to care
for the animal. Any person wishing to adopt an animal who has been convicted of
a violation of KRS 525.125, KRS 525.130, KRS 525.135, or §
90.08 of this chapter will not be qualified to adopt.
   (B)   Animal Care and Control are not obligated to sell or transfer
possession of any animal in their custody.
   (C)   All canines and felines adopted from the animal shelter shall be
surgically altered to prevent breeding.
   (D)   The fee for adoption of animals shall be set by the Jessamine County
Fiscal Court.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 MICROCHIPPING ANIMALS.
   (A)   All animals released from the county animal shelter whether by return
to owner or adoption shall be implanted with a microchip prior to release.
Canines released from the shelter by return to owner shall also be subject to
the canine licensing fees outlined in §
90.04. A hound or other hunting dog which is impounded at the shelter as a
result of the dog’s having become temporarily lost or having wandered from
immediate control or sight of the owner or handler while engaged in hunting as
established in KRS 258.215 will be exempt from the microchipping requirement of
this section.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 RABIES VACCINATIONS.
   (A)   All canines and felines, four months of age and older, shall be
vaccinated for rabies and revaccinated for rabies at the expiration of the
immunization period as certified by a veterinarian.
   (B)   Any canine or feline reclaimed or adopted from the animal shelter must
have a valid rabies vaccination.
   (C)   Upon reclaiming an animal impounded at the animal shelter the owner
shall show proof of a valid rabies vaccination. If proof of the vaccination can
not be provided, the owner shall purchase a vaccination voucher from the animal
shelter. The voucher shall be valid for ten days from the date of issuance and
shall be used in the prescribed time period. The animal shelter shall reimburse
the veterinarian for the amount of the voucher upon presentation to the shelter
by the administering veterinarian as established by KRS 258.215.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 LIVESTOCK RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any livestock owned or
harbored by him or her, to run at large. When livestock are running at large,
Animal Care and Control or a peace officer shall make reasonable efforts to
notify the owner as soon as possible, if reasonably possible and feasible, the
owner of the livestock shall be notified prior to the actual capture and
impoundment of the livestock.
   (B)   If the owner of livestock that is running at large is unable to be
located, Animal Care and Control or a peace officer shall have the power to
impound the livestock and hold it at a location designated by the Director of
Animal Care and Control. The livestock shall be held for a minimum of 15 days
after being advertised in the local newspaper publication to give the owner
sufficient time to claim the livestock. After impoundment the Director of
Animal Care and Control shall advertise in the legal section of the local
newspaper publication where and when the livestock was impounded. If after the
15 day period the owner of the livestock has not come forward to claim it, the
livestock will become the property of the Jessamine County Fiscal Court and may
be offered for adoption, sale or may be euthanized at the discretion of the
Director of Animal Care and Control. If the owner of the livestock comes
forward to claim such livestock the owner shall be responsible for paying a
reasonable fee for transportation, board, administration, and medical attention
during the impoundment.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties for §
90.03 Restriction to Property of Owner. Any person failing to comply with the
requirements of §
90.03 of this chapter shall upon conviction of a first offense be subject to a
fine no less than $50 and no more than $100 in addition to any costs assessed
by the District Court. Upon conviction of a second offense, an owner shall be
subject to a fine no less than $100 and no more than $150 in addition to any
costs assessed by District Court; Upon conviction of a third or other
subsequent offense an owner shall be fined no less than $150 and no more than
$200 in addition to any costs assessed by the District Court.
   (B)   Penalties for §
90.04 Canine Licensing. Any person failing to comply with the requirements of §
90.04 of this chapter shall upon conviction of a first offense be subject to a
fine no less than $50 and no more than $100 in addition to any costs assessed
by the District Court. Upon conviction of a second offense, an owner shall be
subject to a fine no less than $100 and no more than $150 in addition to any
costs assessed by District Court. Upon conviction of a third or other
subsequent offense an owner shall be fined no less than $150 and no more than
$200 in addition to any costs assessed by the District Court.
   (C)   Penalties for §
90.05 Harboring a Vicious Canine. Upon conviction under §
90.05 of this chapter relating to possession of a vicious canine, the penalty
shall be a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500, or up to 90 days in
the county jail, or both. In addition the court shall order one or a
combination of the following:
      (1)   That the following regulations be followed as a condition of the
owner retaining the canine:
         (a)   Any canine determined to be vicious by a court and allowed to be
returned to an owner shall be confined in a locked enclosure at least seven
feet high or a locked kennel run with a secured top. The canine may leave the
enclosure only to visit the veterinarian or to be turned in to an animal
shelter. The canine shall be required to be muzzled if leaving the enclosure
for either of these purposes per KRS 258.235(3);
         (b)   The enclosure shall be required to display a sign warning of the
vicious canine and shall be visible from the public roadway or public access if
applicable;
         (c)   The vicious canine shall be required to not be permitted outside
of the dwelling of its owner or outside of the enclosure unless it is necessary
to obtain veterinary care or to be turned in to an animal shelter. If the
vicious canine must be allowed outside the permitted areas, it shall be
required to be under the direct control and supervision of its owner or keeper
and shall be muzzled and restrained with a lead or leash not to exceed three
feet in length, or placed in a secure animal carrier;
         (d)   The owner or keeper of a vicious canine shall immediately notify
Animal Control if the canine is loose, unconfined or has attacked an animal or
human being; and
         (e)   Upon conviction of §
90.05 the courts may order that the canine be immediately surrendered to Animal
Control to be euthanized.
      (2)   Upon a conviction of a second or subsequent offense under §
90.05 of this chapter relating to possession of a vicious canine, the penalty
shall be a fine of not less than $250 nor more than $500, or up to one year in
the county jail, or both; and if the violation involves the same canine, Animal
Control shall petition the District Court to have the animal immediately
surrendered to Animal Control to be euthanized.
   (D)   Penalties for §
90.07 Wild and Exotic Animals. Any person violating any provision of §
90.07 of this chapter relating to wild and exotic animals shall on the first
offense be fined not less than $100 nor more than $250, or up to 30 days in the
county jail, or both; on a second or subsequent offense shall be fined not less
than $350 nor more than $500, or up to 90 days in the county jail, or both. The
owner of the animal may also be required to surrender the animal to Animal Care
and Control.
   (E)   Penalties for §
90.08(A)(1) Humane Treatment of Animals. Any person violating any provision of
§
90.08(A)(1) of this chapter relating to the humane treatment of animals shall
on the first offense be fined not less than $200 nor more than $350, or up to
30 days in the county jail, or both; on a second or subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $350 nor more than $500, or up to 90 days in the county
jail, or both. The owner of the animal may also be required to surrender the
animal to Animal Care and Control.
   (F)   Penalties for §
90.08(B) Humane Treatment of Animals. Any person violating any provision of §
90.08(B) of this chapter relating to the humane treatment of animals shall on
the first offense be fined not less than $200 nor more than $350, or up to 30
days in the county jail, or both; on a second or subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $350 nor more than $500, or up to 90 days in the county
jail, or both. If convicted of the offense the owner of the animal may also be
required to surrender the animal to Animal Care and Control.
   (G)   Penalties for §
90.08(C) Humane Treatment of Animals. Any person violating any provision of §
90.08(C) of this chapter relating to the humane treatment of animals shall on
the first offense be fined not less than $200 nor more than $350, or up to 30
days in the county jail, or both; on a second or subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $350 nor more than $500, or up to 90 days in the county
jail, or both. If convicted of the offense the owner of the animal may also be
required to surrender the animal to Animal Care and Control.
   (H)   Penalties for §
90.08(D) Humane Treatment of Animals. Any person violating any provision of §
90.08(D) of this chapter relating to the humane treatment of animals shall on
the first offense be fined not less than $200 nor more than $350, or up to 30
days in the county jail, or both; on a second or subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $350 nor more than $500, or up to 90 days in the county
jail, or both. If convicted of the offense the owner of the animal may also be
required to surrender the animal to Animal Care and Control.
   (I)   Penalties for §
90.08(E) Humane Treatment of Animals. Any person violating any provision of §
90.08(E) of this chapter relating to the humane treatment of animals shall on
the first offense be fined not less than $200 nor more than $350, or up to 30
days in the county jail, or both; on a second or subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $350 nor more than $500, or up to 90 days in the county
jail, or both, if convicted of the offense the owner of the animal may also be
required to surrender the animal to Animal Care and Control.
   (J)   Penalties for §
90.08(F) Humane Treatment of Animals. Any person violating any provision of §
90.08(F) of this chapter relating to the humane treatment of anima/s shall on
the first offense be fined not less than $ 100 nor more than $250, or up to 30
days in the county jail, or both; on a second or subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $250 nor more than $350, or up to 90 days in the county
jail, or both. If convicted of the offense the owner of the animal may also be
required to surrender the animal to Animal Care and Control.
   (K)   Penalties for §
90.08(G) Humane Treatment of Animals. Any person violating any provision of §
90.08(G) of this chapter relating to the humane treatment of animals shall on
the first offense be fined not less than $100 nor more than $250, or up. To 30
days in the county jail, or both; on a second or subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $250 nor more than $350, or up to 90 days in the county
jail, or both. If convicted of the offense the owner of the animal may also be
required to surrender the animal to Animal Care and Control.
   (L)   Penalties for §
90.08(H) Humane Treatment of Animals. Any person violating any provision of §
90.08(H) of this chapter relating to the humane treatment of animals shall on
the first offense be fined not less than $250 nor more than $350, or up to 30
days in the county jail, or both; on a second or subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $350 nor more than $500, or up to 90 days in the county
jail, or both. If convicted of the offense the owner of the animal may also be
required to surrender the animal to Animal Care and Control.
   (M)   Penalties for §
90.08(I) Humane Treatment of Animals. Any person violating any provision of §
90.08(I) of this chapter relating to the humane treatment of animals shall on
the first offense be fined not less than $250 nor more than $350, or up to 30
days in the county jail, or both; on a second or subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $350 nor more than $500, or up to 90 days in the county
jail, or both. If convicted of the offense the owner of the animal may also be
required to surrender the animal to Animal Care and Control
   (N)   Penalties for §
90.08(J) Humane Treatment of Animals. Any person violating any provision of
90.08 (J) of this chapter relating to the humane treatment of animals shall on
the first offense be fined not less than $25 nor more than $50; on a second or
subsequent offense shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100.
   (O)   Penalties for §
90.08(K) Humane Treatment of Animals. Any person violating any provision of §
90.08(K) of this chapter relating to the humane treatment of animals may be
fined not less than $150 nor more than $200.
   (P)   Penalties for §
90.08(L) Humane Treatment of Animals. Any person violating any provision of §
90.08(L) of this chapter relating to the humane treatment of animals shall be
fined not less than $250 nor more than s350 or up to 30 days in the county
jail, or both.
   (Q)   Penalties for §
90.08(M) Humane Treatment of Animals. Any person violating any provision of §
90.08(M) of this chapter relating to the humane treatment of animals shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $100.
   (R)   Penalties for §
90.08(N) Humane Treatment of Animals. Any person violating any provision of §
90.08(N) of this chapter relating to the humane treatment of animals shall on
the first offense be fined not less $250 nor more than $350, or up to 30 days
in the county jail, or both; on a second or subsequent offense shall be fined
not less than $350 nor more than $500, or up to 90 days in the county jail, or
both. If convicted of the offense the owner of the animal may also be required
to surrender the animal to Animal Care and Control.
   (S)   Penalties for §
90.08(O) Humane Treatment of Animals. Any person violating any provision of §
90.08(O) of this chapter relating to the humane treatment of animals shall on
the first offense be fined not less $25 nor more than $50; on a second or
subsequent offense shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100.
   (T)   Penalties for §
90.09(C). Any person failing to comply with the mandatory spay/neuter adoption
requirements of §
90.09 of this chapter shall either show the court proof from a licensed
veterinarian that
the surgical procedure has been performed or shall be ordered by the court to
surrender the animal to Animal Care and Control without a refund of adoption
fees, and be fined a sum not less than $100 nor more than $150.
   (U)   Penalties for §
90.10. Any person failing to comply with the mandatory micro chipping adoption
and return to owner requirements of §
90.10 of this chapter shall either show the court proof from a licensed
veterinarian that the surgical procedure has been performed or shall be ordered
by the court to surrender the animal to Animal Care and Control without a
refund of adoption fees, and shall be fined a sum not less than $100 nor more
than $150.
   (V)   Penalties for 90.11. Any person failing to comply with the vaccination
requirements of §
90.11 shall on a first offense be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100;
on a second or subsequent offense shall be fined not less than $100 nor more
than $200.
   (W)   Penalties for §
90.12. Any livestock owner who violates §
90.12 of this chapter shall on the first offense be issued a warning or
citation and shall be required to reimburse the county for all reasonable
expenses incurred in capturing, impounding, boarding, and providing necessary
medical services to the livestock. On second or subsequent offense, the owner
shall be fined not less than $50 or no more than $500, and the owner shall be
required reimburse the county for all reasonable expenses incurred in
capturing, impounding, boarding, and providing necessary medical services to
the livestock. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2015)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Fire protection subdistrict
Fire Prevention and Protection
   
91.15   Adoption of Standards of Safety
   
91.16   Designated Code Enforcement Officer
   
91.17   Appeal process
   
91.18   Saving clause
   
91.19   Open burning ban during periods of extreme fire hazard
Maintenance of Access to Fire Hydrants
   
91.35   Obstructions unlawful
   
91.36   Written notification of obstruction
   
91.37   Complaint; Fire Department to remove obstruction
Open Burning
   
91.50   Definitions
   
91.51   Notice required
   
91.52   Form of notice
   
91.53   Enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 FIRE PROTECTION SUBDISTRICT.
   Pursuant to KRS 75.015, the Jessamine County Fiscal Court hereby forms and
creates a fire protection subdistrict for the territory described in the
petition of resident owners as “Northside of Catnip Hill on the south from
Norfolk Southern Railway on the east, Woodford County on the west and Fayette
County on the north,” as shown on the plat attached to the ordinance
establishing this section and incorporated by reference herein.
(Ord. passed 12-21-1995)
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
§ 91.15 ADOPTION OF STANDARDS OF SAFETY.
   The Kentucky Standards of Safety as promulgated in 815 KAR 10:060 by the
Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Building and Construction on the
advice and recommendation of the State Fire Marshal, is hereby adopted in full
as an ordinance of Jessamine County of the Commonwealth of Kentucky. Copies of
the Code Book are available through the Department of Housing, Building and
Construction, 1047 U.S. 127 South, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601.
(Ord. passed 6-2-1998; Am. Ord. passed 4-16-2024)
§ 91.16 DESIGNATED CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   Any member or members of the Jessamine County Fire District who are
appointed deputy fire marshals by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to KRS
227.230 and 227.210 shall be designated as local enforcement agents for the
Standards of Safety with authority of a deputy state fire marshal, as set forth
in KRS Chapter 227.
(Ord. passed 6-2-1998)
§ 91.17 APPEAL PROCESS.
   Any action of enforcement by the deputy state fire marshals designated in §
91.16 shall be subject to all appeal procedures applicable to state fire
marshals, set forth in KRS Chapter 227.
(Ord. passed 6-2-1998)
§ 91.18 SAVING CLAUSE.
   Nothing in this subchapter or in the Standards of Safety hereby adopted
shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any court, or
any rights acquired, liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action
acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed as cited in §
91.16; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost,
impaired or affected by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-2-1998; Am. Ord. passed 4-16-2024)
§ 91.19 OPEN BURNING BAN DURING PERIODS OF EXTREME FIRE HAZARD.
   (A)   The Judge Executive, or his/her designee shall be authorized to enact
by executive order a ban on all open burning in the unincorporated areas of the
county, either when he/she determines that a major fire hazard exists or when
notified by the Kentucky Division of Forestry, advising that such a hazard
exists.
   (B)   No person shall be allowed to participate in open burning in the
unincorporated areas of the county upon the signing of an executive order
provided for in division (A).
   (C)   These open burning provisions shall be enforceable by all sworn peace
officers of the county and all persons thus offending shall be referred to the
County Attorney for prosecution pursuant to KRS 149.401.
(Ord. passed 1-17-2017)
MAINTENANCE OF ACCESS TO FIRE HYDRANTS
§ 91.35 OBSTRUCTIONS UNLAWFUL.
   There shall be no obstruction, including but not limited to: landscaping,
overgrowth, walls and fences place or permitted within a ten-foot radius of any
fire hydrant.
(Ord. passed 1-17-2017)
§ 91.36 WRITTEN NOTIFICATION OF OBSTRUCTION.
   Any person who creates an obstruction of clear access to a fire hydrant
shall be notified in writing by the Fire Chief of the locality in which such
hydrant is located or his appointed designee. This notice shall advise of the
violation and provide the person with ten days to remove the obstruction.
(Ord. passed 1-17-2017)
§ 91.37 COMPLAINT; FIRE DEPARTMENT TO REMOVE OBSTRUCTION.
   If after ten days the obstruction is not removed from within ten feet of the
fire hydrant then the person is in violation of this subchapter, and the Fire
Chief or his designee may file a complaint. If it is determined by the district
court that this subchapter has been violated, and there is not appeal, then the
Fire Chief is authorized to order this Fire Department to remove the
obstruction and ensure clear access to the fire hydrant.
(Ord. passed 1-17-2017)
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPENING BURNING. Any fire which purpose is to burn vegetation, or debris as
a result of excavation, or debris as a result of a construction project.
However, the term shall not include fires which may be set for the purpose of
burning plant beds.
(Ord. passed 1-17-2017)
§ 91.51 NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Any person, corporation or other entity desiring to engage in open burning
on property shall give notice to the public by posting two signs of their
intent to set a fire. Additionally, any person, corporation or other entity
desiring to engage in open burning on property shall give notice to the local
fire department by telephonic or verbal communication to the Fire Chief or his
designee prior to engaging in the open burning.
(Ord. passed 1-17-2017)
§ 91.52 FORM OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice shall be posted in two prominent and conspicuous locations
on the property with the objective of placing the notices in such a manner and
location as to alert surrounding residents.
   (B)   Posting shall be as follows:
      (1)   Signs constructed of durable material which state "Open Burning",
and the time and date of said burning. All lettering and numbering on signs
shall be at least three inches in height.
      (2)   The signs shall be posted for a time period beginning at least 24
hours prior to the open burning until the fire is extinguished.
(Ord. passed 1-17-2017)
§ 91.53 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter shall be enforceable by all sworn peace officers of the
county.
(Ord. passed 1-17-2017)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates §
91.21 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not
less than $5 nor more than $500 for each and every offense.
   (B)   Any person or entity who violates any provision of §§
91.35 though
91.37: shall upon conviction be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not
less than $10 nor more than $500 for each conviction. Each day that such
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. In addition, a person
convicted of violating §§
91.35 through
91.37 shall be required to pay the costs incurred by the local Fire Department
in removing the obstruction.
   (C)   Any person, corporation or other entity who violates §§
91.50 through
91.53 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each and every
offense.
(Ord. passed 1-17-2017)
CHAPTER 92: NOISE CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Findings and policy
   
92.03   Scope
   
92.04   Definitions; standards
Administration; Variances
   
92.15   Noise Control Officer
   
92.16   Permit
   
92.17   Special variances
   
92.18   Variance for time to comply
   
92.19   Farm equipment exemption
   
92.20   Farm exemption
Prohibitions; Enforcement
   
92.35   Prohibited acts; general
   
92.36   Prohibited acts; specific
   
92.37   Violation assessment
   
92.38   Abatement orders
   
92.39   Notice of violation
   
92.40   Other remedies
   
92.41   Citizen suits
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be titled the Noise Control Ordinance of Jessamine County
and cited as this chapter herein.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004)
§ 92.02 FINDINGS AND POLICY.
   (A)   WHEREAS excessive sound constitutes a menace to the public health and
welfare and the quality of life;
   (B)   WHEREAS a substantial body of science and technology exists by which
excessive sound may be substantially abated;
   (C)   WHEREAS KRS 224.30-100 through 224.30-190 establishes the right of the
people to an environment free from excessive and unnecessary sound;
   (D)   WHEREAS excessive and unnecessary sound that may jeopardize human
health or welfare or may substantially degrade the quality of life;
   (E)   WHEREAS it is the desire of the Jessamine County Fiscal Court to
eliminate non-commercial excessive and unnecessary sound; and it being within
the purview of the governing body’s police powers to do so;
   (F)   NOW, THEREFORE, it is the policy of the County of Jessamine to
prevent, prohibit and provide for the abatement of excessive and unnecessary
noise which may injure the health or welfare of its citizens or degrade the
quality of life.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004)
§ 92.03 SCOPE.  
   This chapter shall apply to the control of all sound originating within the
limits of this jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004)
§ 92.04 DEFINITIONS; STANDARDS.
   (A)   Terminology standards. All terminology used in this chapter not
defined below shall be in conformance with applicable American National
Standards Institute Publications, including but not limited to S1.1-1960, R
1971, or those from its successor publications or bodies.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, certain words and
phrases used herein are defined as follows:
      AGRICULTURAL PROPERTY. A parcel of real property of not less than 10
contiguous acres in size which is undeveloped for any use other than
agricultural purposes.
      COMMERCIAL AREA. A parcel of real property zoned commercial or one on
which a nonconforming commercial business is located.
      COMMERCIAL BUSINESS. Any business paying occupational license fee taxes.
      CONSTRUCTION. Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial
repair, alteration or similar action, for or of public or private rights-of-
way, structures, utilities or similar property.
      CONTINUOUS SOUND. Any sound which exists, essentially without
interruption, for a period of 10 minutes or more.
      DECIBEL (dB).  
         (a)   A unit for describing the loudness of sound. Zero DECIBELS is
the threshold of human hearing. Ten decibels is 10 times as loud as zero, 20
decibels is 100 times as loud as zero, and 130 decibels is the threshold of
pain. Example: Normal voice conversation occurs at 60 dB.
         (b)   These decibel levels may be used as a reference in judging
various noise levels:
            1.   Rock concerts: 140 dB;
            2.   Car/motorcycle: 120 dB;
            3.   Woodworking machinery: 100 dB;
            4.   Lawn mower: 90 dB;
            5.   Traffic noise: 80 dB; and
            6.   Whisper: 20 dB.
      DEMOLITION. Any dismantling, intentional destruction or removal of
structures, utilities public or private right-of-way surfaces or similar
property.
      DESIGNATED ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The officers of law enforcement within
whose jurisdiction enforcement of this chapter is required.
      DEVICE. Any mechanism which is intended to produce, or which actually
produces, noise when operated or handled.
      DIRT BIKE. A lightweight motorcycle designed for use on rough surfaces,
such as dirt roads or trails.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal except a human being converted to domestic
habitat.
      EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances, involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage, which demands immediate action.
      EMERGENCY VEHICLE. An emergency vehicle used in response to a public
calamity or to protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to danger.
      EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating the physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an
emergency.
      FARM. A tract of land devoted to agricultural purposes.
      FARM LIVESTOCK. Animals on a farm kept or raised for use and profit.
      FOUR WHEELER. A 4-wheel vehicle which is usually mechanically propelled
and designed for use on rough surfaces such as dirt roads and trails.
      IMPULSIVE SOUND. Sound of short duration, usually less than 1 second,
with an abrupt onset and rapid decay. Examples of sources of impulsive sound
include explosions, drop forge impacts, and the discharge of firearms.
      INDUSTRIAL AREA.  A parcel of real property zoned industrial or one on
which a nonconforming industrial activity occurs.
      INTRUSIVE NOISE. That noise which intrudes over and above the existing
ambient noise at a given location. For the purpose of this chapter, an
INTRUSIVE SOUND is any sound which is disruptive or distracting to daily
activities such as but not limited to sleeping, dining, reading, studying or
vocal conversations. The relative intrusiveness of a sound depends upon its
amplitude, duration and time of occurrence.
      LICENSED. The possession of a formal license or a permit issued by the
appropriate jurisdictional authority; or where no permits or licenses are
issued, the sanctioning of the activity by the jurisdiction as noted in public
record.
      MOBILE NOISE SOURCE. Any noise source other than a stationary noise
source.
      MOTORCYCLE. Any motor driven vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use
of the operator and designed to travel on not more than 3 wheels in contact
with the ground, excluding tractors, and vehicles on which the operator and
passengers ride in an enclosed cab.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A 4- or more-wheeled vehicle, or machine, propelled or
drawn by mechanical power and used on the public roads and highways in the
transportation of passengers or property; or any combination thereof, which is
required to be licensed; but does not include any vehicle, locomotive or car
operated exclusively on rail car rails.
      MUFFLER or SOUND DISSIPATIVE DEVICE. A device consisting of a series of
chambers or baffle plates, or other mechanical design, for the purpose of
receiving exhaust gas from an internal combustion engine, and effective in
reducing noise.
      NOISE. Any sound which is unwanted or which causes or tends to cause an
adverse psychological or physiological effect on human beings.
      NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which, as judged by the Enforcement Officer,
is an intrusive sound that: endangers or injures the safety or health of human
beings; annoys or disturbs reasonable persons of normal sensitivities;
endangers or injures personal or real property; or violates any factors set
forth in this chapter. The sound of a chainsaw is 110 dB. Regular exposure to
110 dB for more than 1 minute risks permanent hearing loss.
      NOISE SENSITIVE ZONE.  Areas within 100 yards of a nursing home, daycare
or senior citizen facility, public libraries and schools.
      OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. Any self-propelled or mechanically powered vehicle not
used primarily for transporting persons or property upon public roads.
      PERCENTILE SOUND DURATION LEVEL.   
         Tenth percentile level. The duration of sound level that is exceeded
10% of the time in any measurement period (such as the level that is exceeded
for 1 minute in a 10-minute period) and is denoted L10.
         Ninetieth percentile duration level. The duration sound pressure level
that is exceeded 90% of the time in any measurement period (such as the level
that is exceeded for 9 minutes in a 10-minute period) and is denoted L90.
      PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership or corporation, and
includes any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality of the
United States, a state or any political subdivision of a state.
      PLAINLY AUDIBLE NOISE. Any noise for which the information content of
that noise is unambiguously transferred to the listener, such as but not
limited to understanding of spoken speech, comprehension of whether a voice is
raised or normal, or comprehension of musical rhythms.
      PROVOCATION. Justification for action; as pertaining to the barking of
dog(s) in § 91.36(C); shall mean the perceived threat of a person or animal
trespassing on dog owner’s property or reaction to sudden sounds which may
alarm the dog or be painful to the dog’s sense of hearing.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk,
alley or similar place normally accessible to the public which is owned or
controlled by a governmental entity.
      PUBLIC SPACE. Any real property or structures thereon normally accessible
to the public.
      PURE TONE. Any sound which can be judged as audible as a single pitch or
a set of single pitches by the Noise Control Officer. For the purposes of this
chapter, a PURE TONE shall be any sound that remains at a constant level
similar to the hum from a refrigerator, which is approximately 40 dB.
      REAL PROPERTY LINE. An imaginary line along the surface, and its vertical
plane extension, which separates the real property owned, rented or leased by 1
person from that owned, rented or leased by another person, excluding intra-
building real property division.
      REPETITIVE IMPULSIVE NOISE. Any noise which is composed of impulsive
noises that are repeated at sufficiently slow rates similar to a jackhammer or
ram hoe.
      RESIDENTIAL AREA. Any residential zone or area where housing density
exceeds 1 house per 5 acres.
      RESIDENTIAL DWELLING (RESIDENCE). Any house or structure used for a home
or residence.
      SOUND. The manifestation in air of a longitudinal wave created by a
pressure fluctuation, which evokes an auditory sensation within the human ear.
The threshold of normal hearing is 0 dB.
      SOUND-AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT. Any device for the amplification of the human
voice, music or any other sound, excluding standard automobile radios when used
and heard only by the occupants of the vehicle in which the radio is installed;
and as used in this chapter, warning devices on authorized emergency vehicles,
or horns or other warning devices on any vehicle used only for traffic safety
purposes.
      SOUND TRUCK. Any motor vehicle, or any other vehicle, regardless of
motive power, whether in motion or stationary, having mounted thereon or
attached thereto any sound-amplifying equipment.
      STATIONARY NOISE SOURCE.  A stationary device which creates sounds while
fixed or motionless, including but not limited to residential, industrial and
commercial machinery and equipment, pumps, fans, compressors, air conditioners
and refrigeration equipment.
      STEADY NOISE. A sound pressure level which remains essentially constant
during the period of observation, such that it does not vary in intensity or
volume.
      WEEKDAY. Any day Monday through Friday which is not a legal holiday.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004)
ADMINISTRATION; VARIANCES
§ 92.15 NOISE CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   Agency; official. The enforcement of noise control established by this
chapter shall be administered by the Kentucky State Police, the Jessamine
County Sheriff’s Department, the Nicholasville Police Department, the Wilmore
Police Department or any duly elected constitutional peace officer of Jessamine
County.
   (B)   Noise Control Officer (NCO).  The officers of the agency within whose
jurisdiction enforcement of this chapter is required.
   (C)   Powers of the designated Enforcement Officer/peace officer. In order
to implement and enforce this chapter and for the general purpose of noise
abatement and control, the designated Enforcement Officer/peace officer shall
have in addition to any other authority vested in it the following powers:
      (1)   Inspections.  Upon presentation of proper credentials, enter and/or
inspect any private property, place, report or records at any time when granted
permission by the owner. When permission is refused or cannot be obtained, a
search warrant may be obtained from a court of competent jurisdiction upon
showing of probable cause to believe that a violation of this chapter may
exist.
      (2)   Public and private projects. Require usage of adequate measures to
avoid violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   Duties of designated Enforcement Officer/peace officer. In order to
effectively implement and enforce this chapter, the designated Enforcement
Officer/peace officer shall:
      (1)   Investigate and pursue violations. Under procedures set forth in
division (C), §§
92.37 through
92.41 and other provisions of this chapter investigate and pursue possible
violations of this chapter.
      (2)   Abatement order/uniform citations. If the designated Enforcement
Officer and/or peace officer finds a violation has occurred, a warning, an
abatement order or uniform citation shall be issued as provided under §§
92.37 through
92.41.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004)
§ 92.16 PERMIT.
   (A)   Applications for a permit for relief from the noise restrictions in
these ordinances on the basis of undue hardship may be made to the
administrative officer of the enforcement agency within whose jurisdiction
enforcement of this chapter is required. Any permit granted by the
administrative officer or its authorized representative shall contain all
conditions upon which the permit has been granted, including but not limited to
the effective dates, any time of day, location, sound pressure level or
equipment limitation.
   (B)   The relief requested may be granted upon good and sufficient evidence
demonstrating that:
      (1)   Additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or modify
this activity or operation to comply with this chapter; or
      (2)   The activity, operation or noise source will be of temporary
duration and cannot be done in a manner that would comply with this chapter;
and
      (3)   No reasonable alternative is available to the applicant.
   (C)   The administrative officer may prescribe any reasonable conditions or
requirements deemed necessary to minimize adverse effects upon a community or
the surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004)
§ 92.17 SPECIAL VARIANCES.
   (A)   The administrative officer of the enforcement agency within whose
jurisdiction enforcement of this chapter is required is authorized to grant
variances for exception from any provision of this chapter, subject to
limitations as to area, noise levels, time limits and other terms and
conditions as the administrative officer determines are appropriate to protect
the public health, safety and welfare from the noise emanating therefrom. This
section shall in no way affect the duty to obtain any permit or license
required by law for those activities.
   (B)   (1)   Any person seeking a variance pursuant to this section shall
file an application with the administrative officer. The application shall
contain information which demonstrates that bringing the source of sound or
activity for which the variance is sought into compliance with this chapter
would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, on the community or
on other persons. A separate application shall be filed for each noise source;
provided, however, that several mobile sources under common ownership, or
several fixed sources on a single property may be combined into 1 application.
Notice of an application for a variance shall be published according to
jurisdictional procedure. Any individual who claims to be adversely affected by
allowance of the variance may file a statement with the administrative officer
containing any information to support his or her claim. If at any time the
administrative officer finds that a sufficient controversy exists regarding an
application, a public hearing will be held.
      (2)   In determining whether to grant or deny the application, the
administrative officer shall balance the hardship on the applicant, the
community and other persons of not granting the variance against the adverse
impact on the health, safety and welfare of persons affected, the adverse
impact on property affected, and any other adverse impacts of granting the
variance. Applicants for variances and persons contesting variances may be
required to submit any information as the administrative officer may reasonably
require. In granting or denying an application, the administrative officer
shall keep on public file a copy of the decision and the reasons for denying or
granting the variance.
      (3)   Variances shall be granted by notice to the applicant containing
all necessary conditions, including a time limit on the permitted activity. The
variance shall not become effective until all conditions are agreed to by the
applicant. Noncompliance with any condition of the variance shall terminate the
variance and subject the person holding it to those provisions of this chapter
for which the variance was granted.
      (4)   A variance will not exceed 365 days from the date on which it was
granted. Application for extension of time limits specified in variances or for
modification of other substantial conditions shall be treated like applications
for initial variances under division (B)(2) of this section.
      (5)   The administrative officer will issue guidelines pursuant to §
92.15(D) approved by the appropriate authority, defining the procedures to be
followed in applying for a variance and the criteria to be considered in
deciding whether to grant a variance.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004)
§ 92.18 VARIANCE FOR TIME TO COMPLY.
   Within 90 days following the effective date of this chapter, the owner of
any commercial or industrial source of sound may apply to the administrative
officer for a variance in time to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
The administrative officer shall have the authority, consistent with this
section, to grant a variance (not to exceed 365 days from the effective date of
this chapter). The same procedures and consideration by the administrative
officer as followed under this chapter shall likewise apply.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004)
§ 92.19 FARM EQUIPMENT EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in KRS 224.30-100 to 224.30-190 shall apply to farm tractors or
other farm machinery, equipment or vehicles primarily designed or used for off-
public highway use. This section shall be construed to exclude from the
provisions of KRS 224.30-100 to 224.30-190 only those vehicles not required to
be licensed for use on public highways.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004)
§ 92.20 FARM EXEMPTION.
   Noise disturbance created by farm livestock, the operation of farm machinery
or noise caused by other activities relating to an agricultural operation shall
be exempt from this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004)
PROHIBITIONS; ENFORCEMENT
§ 92.35 PROHIBITED ACTS; GENERAL.
   In addition to the specific prohibitions outlined in §
92.36, it shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be
made any unreasonably loud noise which is substantially incompatible with the
time and location where created to the extent that it creates an actual or
imminent interference with peace or good order. Included shall be any
disturbing noise which is perceived by the designated Enforcement Officer and/
or peace officer or any person of ordinary sensibilities as interrupting the
normal peace and calm of the area. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit any
of these activities for emergency purposes.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.36 PROHIBITED ACTS; SPECIFIC.
   The following acts or the causing or permitting thereof are declared to be
in violation of this chapter:
   (A)   Radios, television sets, musical instruments and similar devices.
Operating, playing or permitting the operation or playing of any radio,
television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument or similar device which
produces or reproduces sound:
      (1)   Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day in
such a manner as to create a noise disturbance across a residential or
commercial real property line, or at any time to violate the provisions of §§
92.37 through
92.41, except for activities for which a variance has been issued by the
appropriate authority; and/or
      (2)   In such a manner as to exceed the levels set forth for public space
in §§
92.37 through
92.41, measured at a distance of at least 100 feet (30 meters) from the device
operating on a public right-of-way or public space.
   (B)   Loudspeakers.  Using or operating for any purpose any loudspeaker,
loudspeaker system or similar device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. the following day, such that the sound therefrom creates a noise
disturbance across a residential real property line, except for any
noncommercial public speaking, public assembly or other activity for which a
variance has been issued by the Jessamine County Sheriff’s Department, the
Nicholasville Police Department or the Wilmore Police Department shall be a
violation of this chapter. Ichthus and any other similar music festival shall
be exempt from this chapter.
   (C)   Animals. Any person owning, possessing or harboring any domestic
animal or bird which without provocation makes an intrusive sound by howling,
barking, whining, meowing, squawking or other means which exceeds a sound
duration level of L50 over a 15-minute time span, and which creates a noise
disturbance that can be heard within 10 feet of the walls of an adjacent
residential dwelling shall be in violation of this chapter. This provision
shall not apply to farm livestock, public animal shelters or public zoos.
   (D)   Loading and unloading. Loading, unloading, opening, closing or other
handling of boxes, crates, containers, building materials, garbage cans or
similar objects between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day
in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance that exceeds a sound duration
level of L50 for a 15-minute time span that can heard within 10 feet of the
walls of an adjacent residential dwelling shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Vehicle, motorboat or aircraft repairs and testing.  
      (1)   Repairing, rebuilding, modifying or testing any motorcycle or other
motor vehicle, motorboat or aircraft between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. the following day in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance that
exceeds a sound duration level of L50 for a 15-minute time span that can heard
within 10 feet of the walls of an adjacent residential dwelling shall be a
violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Nothing in this division shall be construed to prohibit, restrict,
penalize, enjoin or in any manner regulate the movement of aircraft which are
in all respects conducted in accordance with or pursuant to applicable federal
laws or regulations.
   (F)   Horns and signaling devices. Sounding of any horn or signaling device
on any truck, automobile, motorcycle, emergency vehicle or other vehicle on any
street or public place within the county or any city therein, except as a
danger warning signal as provided in the Kentucky Revised Statutes, or the
sounding of any such signaling device for an unnecessary and unreasonable
period of time shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (G)   Explosives, firearms and similar devices.  
      (1)   Using or firing explosives, firearms or similar devices between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day which creates a noise
disturbance across a real property line, or within a noise sensitive zone,
public space or public right-of-way, without first obtaining a variance issued
by the Jessamine County Sheriff’s Department, the Nicholasville Police
Department or the Wilmore Police Department shall be a violation of this
chapter. This variance need not be obtained for licensed game- hunting
activities on property where these activities are authorized; and
      (2)   Discharging of fireworks by private individuals between the hours
of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. except on national holidays and any public
sponsored displays.
   (H)   Stationary nonemergency signaling devices.
      (1)   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any electronically-amplified
signal from any stationary bell, chime, siren, whistle or similar device,
intended primarily for nonemergency purposes, from any place, for more than 30
seconds in any hourly period shall be a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Houses of religious worship shall be exempt from this provision.
      (3)   Sound sources covered by this provision and not exempted under
division (H)(2) above may be exempted by a variance issued by the Jessamine
County Sheriff’s Department, the Nicholasville Police Department or the Wilmore
Police Department.
   (I)   Emergency signaling devices.  
      (1)   The intentional sounding or permitting the sounding outdoors of any
fire, burglar or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle or similar stationary
emergency signaling device, except for emergency purposes or for testing shall
be a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any exterior burglar or fire
alarm or any motor vehicle burglar alarm, unless the alarm is automatically
terminated within 20 minutes of activation.
   (J)   Operation of off-road vehicle, dirt bike or 4-wheeler. Repairing,
operating or testing any motorcycle, off-road vehicle, dirt bike or 4-wheeler
in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance between the hours of 11:00 p.m
and 7:00 a.m. the following day in such a manner as to cause a noise
disturbance that exceeds a sound duration level of L50 for a 15-minute time
span that can be heard within 10 feet of the walls of an adjacent residential
dwelling shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (K)   Noise sensitive zones. Creating or causing the creation of any noise
disturbance within or adjacent to any noise sensitive zone, containing a
hospital, nursing home, school, court or other designated area, so as to
interfere with the functions of the activity or annoy the patients in the
activity shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.37 VIOLATION ASSESSMENT.
   In addition to standards set forth in this chapter the determination of
whether a noise is unreasonably loud or disturbing shall be based on the
following factors incident to the noise:
   (A)   Time of day;
   (B)   Proximity of residential structures;
   (C)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant;
   (D)   The volume of intensity; whether the noise has been enhanced in volume
or range by any type of electronic or mechanical means;
   (E)   The character and zoning of the area;
   (F)   Whether the noise is related to the normal operation of a business or
other labor activity; and
   (G)   Whether the noise is subject to being controlled without unreasonable
effort or expense to the creator thereof.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004)
§ 92.38 ABATEMENT ORDERS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, in lieu of issuing a uniform
citation as provided for in §
92.39, the designated Enforcement Officer responsible for enforcement of any
provision of this chapter may issue a warning or an order requiring abatement
of a sound source alleged to be in violation, within a reasonable time period
and according to guidelines which the designated Enforcement Officer may
prescribe.
   (B)   A warning or an abatement order shall not be issued when the
designated Enforcement Officer has reason to believe that there will not be
compliance with an abatement order.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004)
§ 92.39 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Except where a person is acting in good faith to comply with an abatement
order issued pursuant to § 93.38, violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be cause for a uniform citation to be issued by the designated
Enforcement Officer or other responsible enforcement official according to
procedures which the designated Enforcement Officer may prescribe.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004)
§ 92.40 OTHER REMEDIES.
   No provision of this chapter shall be construed to impair any common law or
statutory cause of action, or legal remedy therefrom, of any person for injury
or damage arising from any violation of this chapter or from other law.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004)
§ 92.41 CITIZEN SUITS.
   Provisions of this chapter do not prevent any person from commencing a civil
action on his or her own behalf against any person who is alleged to be in
violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be
fined for each offense a sum of not less than $100 and not more than $250 for
each offense.
      (2)   Any person shown willfully or knowingly violating any provision of
this chapter shall be fined for each offense a sum of not less than $250 and
not more than $500 with possible jail time.
      (3)   Each day of violation of any provision of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2004)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES; HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
Section
Discarded and Abandoned Items
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Prohibition on person’s own property
   
93.03   Prohibition on another person’s property
Weeds
   
93.15   Thistle eradication
   
93.16   Weeds and/or grass failing to be mowed
 
   
93.99   Penalty
DISCARDED AND ABANDONED ITEMS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCARDED ITEMS. Includes but is not limited to motor vehicles, boats, home
appliances, furniture and/or equipment left in a dilapidated or apparently
inoperable condition and discarded on private property for more than 7
consecutive days. This definition shall not apply to a discarded item or part
thereof which is enclosed within a building or fence in a lawful manner or
where the discarded item or part thereof is not visible from the street, road
or public park, or discarded item which is stored or parked in a lawful manner
on private property in connection with the business of a licensed dismantler,
licensed vehicle dealer or junk yard; provided, however, that this exception
shall not authorize the maintenance of a public or private nuisance as defined
under provisions of law other than this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-30-2004; Am. Ord. passed 10-17-2017)
§ 93.02 PROHIBITION ON PERSON’S OWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Jessamine County Fiscal Court finds that the practice of some
property owners, renters and/or occupants within the unincorporated area of the
county and/or the City of Keene of allowing discarded items to remain on their
property, constitutes a detriment of the welfare and convenience of the
residents of the county. Therefore, it is the public policy of this county to
prohibit the keeping of discarded items on private property within the
unincorporated limits of the county, and the discarded items are hereby
declared to be public nuisances.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer who has probable cause to believe that a
property owner, renter, and/or occupant has allowed a discarded item to remain
on his or her property, property being rented or property being occupied in
violation of this chapter, may issue a citation to the property owner, renter
and/or occupant ordering him or her to appear before the district court of
Jessamine County.
(Ord. passed 3-30-2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-29-2008; Am. Ord. passed 10-17-2017)
§ 93.03 PROHIBITION ON ANOTHER PERSON’S PROPERTY.
   No person shall place, leave, deposit or otherwise undertake to dispose of
any discarded item, upon any private property, or upon any public property or
right-of-way in the county. Any person whose property lies within the
unincorporated area of the county and on whose property a discarded item is
disposed may file a complaint with the County Sheriff or City of Wilmore-
Jessamine County Code Enforcement Official.
(Ord. passed 3-30-2004; Am. Ord. passed 10-17-2017)
WEEDS
§ 93.15 THISTLE ERADICATION.
   The Fiscal Court finds, based upon the hearing on Canadian and nodding
thistles, that thistles are declared a threat in the county and that the State
Department of Agriculture be requested for assistance to eradicate thistles in
the county pursuant to state law and all other applicable law.
(Res. passed 12-21-1994)
§ 93.16 WEEDS AND/OR GRASS FAILING TO BE MOWED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner of any property zoned as a
principal, accessory, or conditional use as “residential” under the zoning
regulations of 5 acres (+ or -) or less in an unincorporated area of Jessamine
County or City of Keene, to permit weeds or grass to become unsightly or
otherwise become a detriment to the health and welfare of the citizens of this
county. Weeds or grass shall be deemed “unsightly” and in violation of this
section if the height of such vegetation is 10 inches or higher.
   (B)   The Codes Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for inspections
relating to this section and is hereby empowered to cite owners into Jessamine
County District Court for violations of this section.
   (C)   (1)   Upon the inspection by the Codes Enforcement Officer of land
upon which a violation of this section exists, the Judge/Executive or his or
her designee, shall issue a notice to the property owner. Said notice shall be
in writing and may be hand delivered, posted at the property or sent via
certified mail and shall require that such unsightly vegetation be removed or
mowed below 10 inches in height within 5 days of the date of the violation
notice.
      (2)   The property owner may request an additional 3 days to comply by
contacting the Codes Enforcement Officer within the 5 day notice period.
      (3)   If no extension of time to comply with this section has been
granted, or if such 3 day extension is granted and the property owner
thereafter remains in violation of this section, the Codes Enforcement Officer
may issue a citation to the owner and the county is hereby empowered to enter
upon such private property to remedy the violation. The county shall then cause
a bill to be issued to the property owner for the county’s expenses incurred in
remedying the violation. The property owner shall have 10 days to pay the bill
to the county. If the bill is not paid within 10 days, the county shall have a
lien against the property and may file a Statement of Lien upon the real estate
with the County Clerk, and may thereafter enforce its lien by civil action
brought in Jessamine Circuit Court.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person or entity convicted of violating the provisions of
division (A) of this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than
$300, and each day after a citation has been issued that such violation
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   There shall be excluded from the requirements of this section any
portion of property otherwise covered by this section, which constitutes:
      (1)   Any wetlands or wildlife preserve, or otherwise exempt property as
defined by federal, state or local law;
      (2)   Any property which is zoned as A-2 (Conservation) by the zoning
regulations;
      (3)   Any property subject to an approved Erosion Control Plan, which
specifically designates area of the property needed to maintain natural ground
cover or other vegetation, to control or prevent soil erosion;
      (4)   Any property, which title thereto, is held in the name of Jessamine
County or Jessamine Fiscal Court;
      (5)   Any “residual” land designated for agricultural usage pursuant to
the cluster development provisions of the zoning regulations;
      (6)   Any remaining portion of property zoned A-1, which has as its
principal use single-family residential buildings, that is also used for other
permitted agricultural activities in that zone; and/or
      (7)   Any property subject to the provisions of KRS 413.072
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. passed 10-30-2017)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   A warning shall be issued for a first offense under §
91.01 through 91.03 to the violator and the violator shall have 7 days to come
into compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
93.02 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 and each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense for which a citation
may be issued and a fine imposed.
   (D)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
93.03 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200, and each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense for which a fine may be
imposed.
(Ord. passed 3-30-2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-29-2008)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
94.01   Acceptance as county or private road
   
94.02   Crossing, cutting or excavation of road
   
94.03   Obstruction of highways by railroad train
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 ACCEPTANCE AS COUNTY OR PRIVATE ROAD.
   The Fiscal Court of Jessamine County shall not accept, approve or consider
for establishment as a county road or a private road any new street or road
from any development or subdivision requiring approval by the Jessamine County-
City of Whitmore Planning Commission or zoning body, unless:
   (A)   The right-of-way of the new street or road is dedicated in fee simple
to the legislative body and is excluded from any portion of the lots in the
subdivided property, with the right-of-way to be shown on a plat separate from
the subdivided lot or lots;
   (B)   The road or street conforms to the right-of-way and minimum design
standards of §
153.062 of the subdivision regulations for the Jessamine County–City of Wilmore
Planning Commissions;
   (C)   The road or street conforms to all other construction standards
required by the County Fiscal Court for road width and construction; and
   (D)   All statutory and legal requirements for establishment of a county
road have been complied with according to law.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000)
§ 94.02 CROSSING, CUTTING OR EXCAVATION OF ROAD.
   No crossing, cutting or excavation affecting the county road system and
right-of-way shall be made without the prior permission of the Fiscal Court
except in the event of an emergency affecting the health and safety of the
general public, in which case the County Judge/Executive shall be authorized to
permit only such crossing, cutting or excavation as the emergency requires,
with the crossing to conform to the methods as adopted by the Kentucky
Department of Transportation and attached to the ordinance establishing this
section, which attachment is adopted by reference herein as if copied in
length, or any other method specifically approved by the Fiscal Court; and that
any utility or other agency or person shall be subject to the condition that it
must remove at any time, at expense of the agency, the utility property located
in the right-of-way using the road right-of-way with a surety bond as the
Fiscal Court may require in light of the type of construction requested.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1980) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 OBSTRUCTION OF HIGHWAYS BY RAILROAD TRAIN.
   (A)   No railroad company shall obstruct any public highway or street; or
the navigation of any stream, by stopping and permitting trains, engines or
cars to stand upon a public grade crossing or upon a drawbridge for more than 5
minutes at any 1 time, unless the stopping and standing is caused by
circumstances beyond control of the railroad company.
   (B)   No member of a railroad train crew shall be held personally guilty of
violating a municipal ordinance regulating the blocking of public grade
crossings by trains, engines or cars, on proof that his or her action was
necessary to comply with the orders or instructions of the railroad company or
its officers; provided that nothing in this section shall relieve the railroad
company from any responsibility placed upon it by that ordinance.
(Res. passed 9-25-1975) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation or failure to comply with §
94.02 shall make the violator subject to a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. passed - -1980)
   (C)   The penalty for violation of §
94.03 shall be a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense.
(Res. passed 9-25-1975)
CHAPTER 95: COUNTY-OWNED PROPERTY
Section
   
95.01   County-owned property
§ 95.01 COUNTY-OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Now therefore be it ordained that the following rules and regulations
apply to all property owned or leased by Jessamine County, Kentucky and may be
enforced by peace officers of the Commonwealth of Kentucky so long as signage
that is plainly visible to the public is posted in at least one spot on any
property which the Jessamine County Fiscal Court directs said signage to be
posted detailing the rules and regulations to which said property is subjected
including but not limited to:
      (1)   Hours of operation (which may specify the time from “sunrise to
sunset”);
      (2)   Prohibition against swimming near property owned or leased by
Jessamine County, Kentucky;
      (3)   Prohibition of recreational sporting vehicles including but not
limited to ATVs and other “off-road” vehicles and “dirt bikes”;
      (4)   Prohibition against littering (state litter law references may be
included on the signage);
      (5)   Prohibition of open fires of any type including but not limited to
“campfires”;
      (6)   Prohibition against “camping” and/or any other type of overnight
usage or occupation of the property;
      (7)   Prohibition of the discharge of firearms, fireworks and/or any
other type of instrument that emits loud noises;
      (8)   Prohibition of any “criminal” activity as defined in the Kentucky
Criminal Statutes;
      (9)   Prohibition of open alcoholic containers;
      (10)   Prohibition of use of the property by private citizens and/or any
business or non-profit organizations for any fund-raising or for-profit
activity.
   (B)   The Jessamine County Fisca1 Court shall approve by resolution the
appropriate signage for any property owned or leased by Jessamine County,
Kentucky; and
   (C)   The Jessamine County Judge Executive will have the authority to cause
such signs to be created and posted on property approved by the Jessamine
County Fiscal Court.
   (D)   All signs shall include reference to this chapter and notify the
public that violations of the posted rules and regulations may subject the
violators to the maximum penalties as set forth in this chapter.
   (E)   Penalties. Violations of any posted rule or regulation will subject
the violator(s) to a fine of up to $250 and or 90 days in jail.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
         
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
112.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
         
113.   PRECIOUS METALS DEALERS; SECOND-HAND PURCHASERS; PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
         
114.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Occupational license application required
   
110.03   Occupational license tax payment required
   
110.04   Apportionment
   
110.05   Employers to withhold
   
110.06   Returns required
   
110.07   Extensions
   
110.08   Refunds
   
110.09   Federal audit provisions
   
110.10   Administrative provisions
   
110.11   Information to remain confidential
   
110.12   Use of occupational license tax
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include a board of trade, chambers of commerce, trade associations, or unions,
or other associations performing services usually performed by trade
associations or unions as recognized by the Internal Revenue Service. BUSINESS
shall not include funds, foundations, corporations, or associations organized
and operated for the exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable,
scientific, literary, educational, civic or fraternal purposes, where no part
of the earnings, incomes or receipts of such unit, group, or association,
inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under § 401(a), 401
(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code;
and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including but not limited to §§
125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   COUNTY. The County of Jessamine, Kentucky.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any 1 or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an employee.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
EMPLOYER means the person having control of the payment of such wages, and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, EMPLOYER means such person.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. Fiscal year as defined in § 7701(a)(24) of the Internal Revenue
Code.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code as defined in KRS 67.750
(7).
   NET PROFIT. Gross income as defined in § 61 of the Internal Revenue Code
minus all the deductions from gross income allowed by Chapter 1 of the Internal
Revenue Code, and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not taxed;
      (3)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carryback or
carryforward allowed under §172 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (4)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately
as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that
is a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the Kentucky Constitution, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United
States.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or non-resident of the
county. Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners
or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the county.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services,
or property.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT. In case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenue only within the county, means net profit as defined in this section.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT. In case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenue both within and without the county, means net profit as defined in this
section, and as apportioned under §
110.04.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net income is computed.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any county or city with the authority to levy net profits or
occupational license taxes.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2007)
§ 110.02 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
    Every person or business entity engaged in any trade, occupation, or
profession, or other activity for profit or anyone required to file a return
under this chapter in Jessamine County shall be required to complete and
execute the questionnaire prescribed by the Occupational Tax Office. Each
person shall be required to complete a separate questionnaire for each separate
business before the commencement of business or in the event of a status
change, other than change of address. Licensees are required to notify the
Occupational Tax Office of changes of address, or the cessation of business
activity, and of other changes which render inaccurate the information supplied
in the completed questionnaire.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B), (E) and (F) of this section,
every person or business entity engaged in any business for profit and any
person or business entity that is required to make a filing with the Internal
Revenue Service or the Kentucky Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and
pay to the county an occupational license tax for the privilege of engaging in
such activities within the county. The occupational license tax shall be
measured by 1% of:
      (1)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the county for work
done or services performed or rendered in the county by every resident and
nonresident who is an employee;
      (2)   The net profit from business conducted in the county by a resident
or nonresident business entity.
   (B)   All partnerships, S corporations, and all other entities where income
is “passed through” to the owners are subject to this chapter. The occupational
license tax imposed in this chapter is assessed against income before it is
“passed through” these entities to the owners.
   (C)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the county during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the county.
   (D)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license tax shall be computed for the purposes of
this chapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for federal income tax purposes.
   (E)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company, combined
trust, banking and title business organized and doing business in this state,
any savings and loan association whether state or federally chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the Kentucky National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, county, and local primary, regular, or
special elections;
      (4)   Public Service Corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the Kentucky Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly non-
public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required to
pay a license fee on their net profit derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the county;
      (5)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Chapter 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages. Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion
of their net profits derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages; employees of said entities shall not be exempt and shall be required
to pay occupational license tax;
      (6)   Insurance companies incorporated under the laws of and doing
business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky except as provided in KRS 91A.080;
      (7)   Any profits, earnings, distributions of an investment fund which
would qualify under KRS 154.20-250 to 154.20-284 to the extent any profits,
earnings, or distributions would not be taxable to an individual investor.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2007; Am. Ord. passed 7-27-2018)
§ 110.04 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided division (D) of this section, net profit shall be
apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than 1 tax district, by multiplying the net profit by a fraction, the numerator
of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) of this section, plus
the sales factor, described in division (C) of this section, and the
denominator of which is 2; and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than 1 tax
district, by multiplying the net profit by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) of this section.
      (3)   For the purposes of divisions (A) through (D) of this section, the
business entity shall file an apportionment form provided by the Occupational
Tax Office.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the county during the tax period by the business
entity for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation
paid or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the county based on the time the
individual’s service is performed within the county.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the county during the tax period, and
the denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sales, lease, or rental of tangible personal property is in the
county if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
county regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory, or other place of storage in the county and the purchaser is the
United States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenue from the sale, lease or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the county based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the county and
the denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-
producing activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease, or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the county, the
business entity may petition the county or the county may require, in respect
to all or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any 1 or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of 1 or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity’s business activity in the county; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of net profit.
   (E)    When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the county, the
license tax shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the county.
The license tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation for work performed or services rendered within the county bears to
the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the county to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayer’s reported percentages under this subsection,
the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2007)
§ 110.05 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold upon the payment of the compensation any tax imposed
against the compensation by the county. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the
county in accordance with §
110.03.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the county, and pay to the county, the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the county.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the county any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the county for any sum or sums withheld or required to
be withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The county or city shall have a lien upon all the property of any
employer who fails to withhold or pay over to the county sums required to be
withheld under this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the
amounts withheld to the county, the lien shall commence as of the date the
amounts withheld were required to be paid to the county. If the employer fails
to withhold, the lien shall commence at the time the liability of the employer
is assessed by the county.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually on or before February 28 of each year complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the county a reconciliation of the occupational
license tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the county, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the county during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this chapter shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid to 1 or
more employees of any business entity, and neither the corporate dissolution or
withdrawal of the business entity from the county, nor the cessation of holding
any corporate office, shall discharge that liability of any person; provided
that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each or every person
holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became obligated.
No person shall be personally and individually liable under this division who
had no authority to collect, truthfully account for, or pay over any tax
imposed by this ordinance at the time that the taxes imposed by this chapter
become or became due.
   (I)   Every employee receiving compensation in the county subject to the tax
imposed under §
110.03 shall be personally liable for the tax notwithstanding the provisions of
divisions (G) and (H) of this section. In all cases where the employer does not
withhold the tax levied under this chapter from the employee, such employee or
employees shall be responsible for filing with the county each quarter in the
same manner as if they were the employer. If an employer fails to or is not
required to withhold, report, or pay the license fee it shall become the duty
of the employee to file with the county. The only employer that is not required
to withhold, report, and pay the occupational license tax is the Federal
Government including the United States Postal Service. The payment required to
be made by an employee, can be made quarterly, for the periods ending March 31,
June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year, or at any time the
employee wishes to make an estimated payment for the year in which wages are
earned. All license fees must be received by February 28 for the preceding
calendar year, together with a copy of the employee’s W-2 form. Employers not
required to withhold, report, or pay the license fee must annually during the
month of January of each year, make a return to the Occupational Tax
Administrator, in which is set forth the name and social security number of
each employee of the employer during the preceding calendar year, giving the
amount of salaries, wages, commissions or other compensation earned during such
preceding year by each such employee. This list shall include all current full
time employees, part time employees, temporary employees, and terminated
employees whether it be voluntary or involuntary.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
county.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license tax return with the county. Whenever, in the opinion of
the county, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any
business entity in order to audit the return, the county may compel the
business entity to produce for inspection a copy of any statements and
schedules in support thereof that have not been previously filed. The county
may also require copies of reports of adjustments made by the federal
government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to a occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the county from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the county deems it necessary, the county may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the county deems sufficient
to determine the tax liability the business entity.
   (D)   The county may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the
correctness of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the
taxable income of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of
the business entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the county at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of persons who make Federal Form 1099
“non-employee compensation” payments to natural persons other than employees
for services performed within the county, to maintain records of such payments
and to report such payments to the county. The payments must be reported on by
remitting Federal Form 1099 by February 28 of the year following the close of
the calendar year in which the non employee compensation was paid. If a
business entity or person is not required to remit Federal Form 1099 to the
IRS, including but not limited to payments less than $600, they are still
liable to remit the equivalent information to the county. The information
required to be reported by the licensee shall include:
      (1)   Payer’s name, address, social security and/or federal
identification number.
      (2)   Recipient’s name and address.
      (3)   Recipient’s social security and/or federal identification number.
      (4)   Amount of non employee compensation paid in the calendar year.
      (5)   Amount of non employee compensation earned in the county for the
calendar year.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2007)
§ 110.07 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The county may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
6 months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the county and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the occupational license tax, requests the extension and pays the amount
properly estimated as its tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business entity shall
pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on
the tax shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from the time
the tax was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the
county. A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2007)
§ 110.08 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
110.05, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer only to the extent
that the amount of the overpayment was not deducted and withheld under §
110.05 by the employer.
   (B)   Unless written application for refund or credit is received by the
county from the employer within 2 years from the date the overpayment was made,
no refund or credit shall be allowed.
   (C)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the county, based on time spent outside the county, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this county, the occupational license tax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the county, may file
for a refund within 2 years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a
return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim and the county may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the county and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the county prior to approval of
the refund.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2007)
§ 110.09 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the county
may examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the county
is greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the county within 5 years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division.
         (a)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
         (b)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit, or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the amount of net
profit stated in the return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time
within 6 years after the return was filed.
         (c)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly
to adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this subsection, or 6 months from the date the county receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (2)   The times provided in this subsection may be extended by agreement
between the business entity and the county. For the purposes of this division,
a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return
shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted for filing
the return shall also be considered as extending the last day prescribed by law
for filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (C)   The county may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2007)
§ 110.10 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may
be refunded or credited within 2 years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the county, whichever is
the later, except that:
         (a)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
110.09 has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
county, the limitation contained in this division shall be extended
accordingly.
         (b)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to
adjustments resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a
claim for refund or credit within the time provided for in this division or 6
months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (B) and division (C) of this
section, a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the
return shall be considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the county.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2007)
§ 110.11 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of the county shall intentionally and
without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or her
of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the county or other proper
officer, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person’s business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer’s properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the county from testifying in any court, or from introducing as
evidence returns or reports filed with the county, in an action for violation
of the county tax laws or in any action challenging the county laws.
   (B)   The county reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of
Revenue of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or his or her duly authorized agent all
such information and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the
county if the Commissioner of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Kentucky grants to
the county the reciprocal right to obtain information form the files and
records of the Kentucky Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged
character of the information so furnished. Provided, further, that the county
may publish statistics based on such information in such a manner as not to
reveal data respecting net profits or compensation of any person or business
entity.
   (C)   In addition, the county is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) of this section with any other taxing
entity, should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect
diligent enforcement of this chapter.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any legal restrictions or limitations to the contrary,
a tax district, as defined in KRS 67.750(10), may share a refund application
and any related information that is submitted to it by an employee seeking a
refund of any amount of tax withheld and paid by his or her employer to the tax
district under KRS 67.750 to 67.795 with any other tax district that is
referenced in the refund application or related information.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2007; Am. Ord. passed 6-29-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX.
   The Occupational License Taxes shall go into the Jessamine County Fiscal
Court’s General Fund.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2007)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A business entity subject to tax on net profits may be subject
to a penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or fraction
thereof if the business entity:
         (a)   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the county; or
         (b)   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
      (2)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this division shall not exceed
25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the date prescribed under §110.05 may be subject to a penalty in an amount
equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or fraction thereof. The
total penalty levied pursuant to this division shall not exceed 25% of the
total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid, from the
time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the county. A fraction of a month
is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   Every tax imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest, and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the county.
   (E)   The county may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due
under §
110.03 and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in divisions (A), (B),
(C), and (D) of this section by civil action in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction. To the extent authorized by law, the county shall be entitled to
recover all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it in
enforcing any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any person,
business entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return, willfully
makes a false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected,
with the intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part
thereof, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim, or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim, or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the county and required to be filed
with the county by the provisions of this chapter, or by the rules of the
county or by written request for information to the business entity by the
county.
   (I)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.11 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than 6 months, or both.
   (J)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.11 by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2007)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Title
   
111.002   Purpose
   
111.003   Definitions
   
111.004   Scope
   
111.005   Adoption
   
111.006   Amending prior ordinances
License Requirements
   
111.015   County licenses and fees
   
111.016   Certain special licenses defined
   
111.017   Expiration of license; proration of fees
   
111.018   Payment of license fees; delinquency
   
111.019   Refund of fees
   
111.020   Regulatory license fee
   
111.021   Disposition of fees
Office of the Local Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
111.030   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
111.031   Appeals
Application and Maintenance of License
   
111.040   Advertisement
   
111.041   Application fee
   
111.042   Form of application
   
111.043   Other conditions
   
111.044   Form of license
   
111.045   Change of information
   
111.046   Renewal of license
   
111.047   Lost or destroyed license
   
111.048   Revocation or suspension
   
111.049   Proceedings for revocation or suspension of license
   
111.050   Transfer or assignment
   
111.051   Refusal of license; guidelines for approval of quota licenses
   
111.052   Review of license; books, records, audio and visual recordings, and
reports
   
111.053   Dormancy
Hours for Sale and Delivery
   
111.060   Hours for sale and delivery
Conditions, Prohibitions and Restrictions
   
111.070   Gambling
   
111.071   Radio receiving apparatus
   
111.072   Security
   
111.073   Prizes prohibited
   
111.074   Drunkenness
   
111.075   Underage sales
   
111.076   Sign requirements
   
111.077   License to be displayed
   
111.078   Legal transactions for wholesalers, distributors and retail
   
111.079   Employment restrictions
   
111.080   Happy hour restrictions
   
111.081   Lavatory facilities required
   
111.082   Nudity and adult entertainment activities prohibited
   
111.083   Drive-through outlets prohibited
   
111.084   Cause for revocation
   
111.085   Retail premises not to be disorderly
Minors
   
111.095   Possession by minors prohibited; no person shall aid possession by
minors
Consumption on Premises Prohibited
   
111.100   Definitions
   
111.101   Consumption on licensed package premises prohibited
   
111.102   Exceptions
   
111.103   Habitual congregating
Malt Beverage Keg Registration
   
111.110   Definition
   
111.111   Malt beverage keg identification tag
   
111.112   Keg registration
   
111.113   Unlawful sales
Enforcement
   
111.125   Enforcement
Mandatory Responsible Beverage Service Training
   
111.140   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
Signs and Advertising
   
111.150   Signs and advertising
Patio and Outdoor Sales
   
111.160   Patio and outdoor sales regulations
   
111.161   Exception to screening requirement for outdoor sales and service of
alcoholic beverages in the case of permitted sidewalk cafes in the Downtown
Business District
   
111.162   Conditions for sidewalk cafe permit
   
111.163   Other requirements applicable to sidewalk cafes
Implementation of Chapter Provisions
   
111.170   Implementation of chapter provisions
 
   
111.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Alcoholic Beverage Control Ordinance" of
Jessamine County, Kentucky.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform regulations and
requirements for the licensing and regulation of alcoholic beverage manufacture
and sales pursuant to authorization of KRS Chs. 241 through 244.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.003 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of the words used throughout this chapter, unless the
context requires otherwise, shall have the same meaning as those set out in the
Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control law (KRS Chs. 241 through 244) of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and all amendments and supplements thereto.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.004 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall be construed to apply to the manufacture and traffic in
both malt beverages and distilled spirits and wine where the context permits
such application. Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the licensee,
or the owner, proprietor, employee, agent or person in charge of any licensed
premises where alcoholic beverages are sold from the restrictions, requirements
and penalties of any other ordinance or ordinances of the county or of any
statutes of the state relating to violations pertaining to alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.005 ADOPTION.
   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky (KRS Chs. 241 through 244) and all amendments and supplements thereto,
are adopted so far as applicable to this chapter except as otherwise lawfully
provided herein.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.006 AMENDING PRIOR ORDINANCES.
   This chapter will amend and/or replace, in its entirety, the prior ordinance
related to alcoholic beverages of the Jessamine County Fiscal Court as
previously promulgated under
Chapter 111 of the Jessamine County Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
§ 111.015 COUNTY LICENSES AND FEES.
   (A)   For the privilege of causing, permitting and engaging in the actions,
business, and transactions authorized thereby in regard to traffic in alcoholic
beverages in the county and pursuant to the authority of KRS 243.060, there is
hereby established a corresponding county license for each of the state
licenses described in KRS 243.060. The fee for each county license shall be as
set out in the following schedule. In the event KRS 243.060 shall hereafter be
amended to authorize additional county licenses, the fee for each county
license shall be the maximum fee provided in the statute as amended.
   (B)   KRS 243.060; county licenses and fees.
      (1)   The fiscal court of any county or a consolidated local government
in which traffic in alcoholic beverages is permitted under KRS Chapter 242 may
only issue the following alcoholic beverage licenses and corresponding maximum
fees. The license fees are subject to the provisions of divisions (2) to (4) of
this section, and shall not exceed the following:
         (a)   Quota retail package license, per annum:   $1,000
         (b)   Quota retail drink license, per annum:   $1,000
         (c)   Non-quota Type 2 retail drink license, per annum:   $1,000
         (d)   Non-quota Type 3 retail drink license, per annum:   $300
         (e)   Special temporary license, per event:   $166
         (f)   Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum:   $300
         (g)   Non-quota retail malt beverage package license, per annum:
   $400
         (h)   Non-quota Type 4 retail malt beverage drink license, per annum:
   $400
         (i)   Limited restaurant license, per annum:   $1,400
         (j)   Limited golf course license, per annum:   $1,400
         (k)   Authorized public consumption license, per annum:   $250
         (l)   Qualified historic site license, per annum:   $1,030
      (2)   The fee for the following license types may not be increased by
more than 5% above the January 1, 2013, fee for the current license or the
former license type listed beside it during any five year period. The fees for
the licenses described in this division are still subject to the maximum
amounts listed for those licenses in division (1) of this section:
         (a)   Quota retail package license: retail package liquor license;
         (b)   Quota retail drink license: retail drink license;
         (c)   Non-quota Type 2 retail drink license: restaurant drink license;
         (d)   Non-quota retail malt beverage package license: retail malt
beverage license;
         (e)   Non-quota Type 4 retail malt beverage drink license: retail malt
beverage license;
         (f)   Limited restaurant license; and
         (g)   Limited golf course license.
      (3)   The fee for each of the first five supplemental bar licenses shall
be the same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no charge
for each supplemental license issued in excess of five to the same licensee at
the same premises.
      (4)   The holder of a non-quota retail malt beverage package license may
obtain a non-quota Type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of $50. The
holder of a non-quota Type 4 malt beverage drink license may obtain a non-quota
retail malt beverage package license for a fee of $50.
      (5)   A county shall not issue county licenses or impose fees under this
section to any person who holds a city license issued under KRS 243.070.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.016 CERTAIN SPECIAL LICENSES DEFINED.
   (A)   Special temporary licenses. A special temporary license may be issued
only as set out in KRS 243.260. Unless inconsistent with KRS 243.260, a special
temporary license shall have the same privileges and restrictions of a quota
retail drink license and a NQ4 retail malt beverage licensee at the designated
premises not to exceed 30 days.
   (B)   A nonprofit organization holding an NQ4 retail malt beverage drink
license may be issued a special temporary license to sell distilled spirits and
wine by the drink on the licensed premises for a specified and limited time,
not to exceed ten days. The temporary license may be issued in conjunction with
any public or private event, including but not limited to weddings, receptions,
reunions, or similar occasions.
   (C)   Sunday sales; special license required for Sunday sales. No licensee
shall offer alcoholic beverages for sale at any time between 12:00 midnight on
Sunday and 6:00 a.m. on Monday unless the licensee shall have obtained a
special license for Sunday sales.
   (D)   Caterer's license. The caterer's license may be issued as a primary
license to a caterer in any wet territory or in any moist territory under KRS
242.1244 for the premises that serves as the caterer's commissary and
designated banquet hall. No primary caterer's license shall authorize alcoholic
beverage sales at a premises that operates as a restaurant. The alcoholic
beverage stock of the caterer shall be kept under lock and key at the licensed
premises during the time that the alcoholic beverages are not being used in
conjunction with a catered function.
   (E)   Private club. PRIVATE CLUB means a nonprofit social, fraternal,
military, or political organization, club, or nonprofit or for-profit entity
maintaining or operating a club room, club rooms, or premises from which the
general public is excluded.
      (1)   Membership qualifications shall be consistent with their national
organization, and a policy for courtesy membership or any temporary membership
privilege will not be tolerated. The existence of such a membership policy
shall be a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Should membership qualifications be altered, the club making such
changes shall furnish a copy of the proposed alteration withing ten days to the
Local Administrator. Failure to furnish such change shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
      (3)   Private clubs licensed to sell alcoholic beverages will provide to
the Local Administrator a list of its officers and notify the Local
Administrator of any change thereto. Club officers for the licensing year shall
not have been convicted of any felony within the past five years or two
misdemeanors or offenses directly or indirectly attributable to the use of
intoxicating liquors within the past two years.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.017 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; PRORATION OF FEES.
   (A)   All county licenses, except special temporary licenses, shall be valid
for a period of no more than a year and shall begin and end on the dates
specified by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrative
Regulations for Jessamine County. When any person applies for a new license
authorized by KRS Chapter 241 to 244 and CDO Chapter 11.5 he or she shall be
charged, if the license is issued, the full fee for the respective license if
six months or more remain before the license is due to be renewed and 1/2 the
fee if less than six months remain before the license is due to be renewed. No
abatement of license fees shall be permitted to any person who held a license
of the same kind for the same premises in the preceding license period and who
was actually doing business under the license during the last month of the
preceding license period.
   (B)   The renewal by Jessamine County of the certificate or permit of any
alcoholic beverage license shall not be construed to waive or condone any
violation that occurred prior to the renewal and shall not prevent subsequent
proceedings against the licensee.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.018 PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES; DELINQUENCY.
   No licensee shall enter into or begin operating any business for which a
license is required by this chapter until the license fee has been paid in
full. The fee for renewal of any license shall be paid with the renewal
application. Failure to pay any license fee within ten days after it becomes
due shall result in a penalty equal to 10% of the license fee. Any licensee
failing to pay the fees, including penalties, within ten days after such fees
are due may be subject to revocation of the license and to other penalties as
provided in §
111.999.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.019 REFUND OF FEES.
   (A)   Should any licensee under this chapter be prohibited from conducting
the licensed business for the full period covered by the license because of any
changes that may hereafter be made in the laws of the Commonwealth with
reference to alcoholic beverages or other cause outside licensee's control,
then the county shall refund to the licensee the proportionate part of the
license fee for the period during which the licensee is prevented from carrying
on said business if the licensee provides sufficient proof to the Local ABC
Administrator that such period of inactivity was not the fault of the licensee
or the result of a revocation, suspension or other wrongdoing by licensee, or
an agent or employee of the licensee.
   (B)   In the event a violation of this chapter occurs that results in the
suspension or revocation of the license, the county shall not be required to
refund any portion of the license fee.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.020 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075, there is hereby imposed a regulatory license
fee upon the gross receipts of the sale of alcoholic beverages of each
establishment located outside the limits of the Cities of Nicholasville and
Wilmore but within the geographical boundaries of Jessamine County licensed to
sell alcoholic beverages. As of the time of adoption of this chapter, the
regulatory license fee shall be 5% of gross sales of all alcoholic beverages
sold by the drink. In the case of retail sales of package distilled spirits and
wine, the regulatory license fee shall be 5% of gross sales. The regulatory
license fee shall be 5% on gross retail sales of package malt beverages.
Thereafter, pursuant to KRS 243.075 the Jessamine County Fiscal Court shall
adopt at the budget adoption for each subsequent fiscal year, such annual rate
for the regulatory license fee as shall be reasonably estimated to ensure full
reimbursement to the county for the cost of any additional policing,
regulatory, or administrative expense related to the sale of alcoholic
beverages in the county. Should the county fail to address the regulatory
license fee in any budget, then the regulatory license fee shall remain at the
level at which it was last fixed until such time as the Jessamine County Fiscal
Court shall adjust the fee.
   (B)   Payment of such regulatory fee shall be remitted to the Local ABC
Administrator, and shall be held in a separate account maintained for the
purpose of fully reimbursing the county for the estimated cost of any
additional policing, regulatory or administrative expense related to the sale
of alcoholic beverages in the county. The regulatory license fee shall be in
addition to any other taxes, fees or licenses permitted by law, except that a
credit against a regulatory license fee in the county shall be allowed in an
amount equal to any license fee imposed by the county pursuant to KRS 243.070.
Payment of the regulatory license fee shall accompany the tax return approved
for such use by the Jessamine County Fiscal Court. The return and payment are
due no later than by the end of the month immediately following each calendar
quarter.
   (C)   Failure to pay such quarterly remittance within ten days of the due
date constitutes a violation and subjects licensee to suspension or revocation.
   (D)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay quarterly remittance by
the due date is 5% of the tax for each 90 days or fraction thereof. The total
late filing penalty shall not exceed 25% of the tax; provided, however, that in
no case shall the penalty be less than $10.
   (E)   Interest at the rate of 8% per annum will apply to any late payments.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.021 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   (A)   The Local ABC Administrator shall transmit fees upon collection to the
Jessamine County Fiscal Court to be deposited into the appropriate designated
account.
   (B)   Fees collected from the sales of alcoholic beverages shall be used in
the following manner:
      (1)   All administrative expenses, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Salaries of Local ABC Administrator and staff;
         (b)   Office equipment and supplies directly related to administration
and regulation of alcoholic beverage control laws;
         (c)   Office space, utilities, communication and technology expenses
for administration and regulation;
         (d)   Travel expenses incurred for policing, administration and
regulation of alcoholic beverages; and
         (e)   Any additional costs directly related to the administration and
regulation of alcoholic beverages.
      (2)   If applicable, all fees collected in excess of expenses included
above shall be dispersed as follows:
         (a)   One hundred percent (100%) to Jessamine County Fiscal Court; and
         (b)   Fees shall be used for policing expenses and any regulatory or
administrative expenses directly related to alcohol related incidents and
responses.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
OFFICE OF THE LOCAL ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR
§ 111.030 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 241.160, there is hereby created the office of Local
Alcoholic Beverage Administrator.
   (B)   The County Judge Executive shall serve as the Local Alcoholic Beverage
Control Administrator (hereinafter referred to as Local ABC Administrator),
unless the County Judge Executive shall appoint someone else to fill the
position pursuant to KRS 241.110.
   (C)   The Local ABC Administrator may from to time appoint such additional
personnel as is necessary to assist him or her in the administration of this
chapter.
   (D)   The salary for the office of Local ABC Administrator, if any, together
with the salaries of any other personnel assisting the Local ABC Administrator,
shall be fixed from time to time by the Jessamine County Fiscal Court.
   (E)   The functions of the Local ABC Administrator shall be the same with
respect to the county licenses and regulations as the functions of the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board of the Commonwealth of Kentucky (hereinafter
referred to as ABC Board) with respect to state licenses and regulations,
except that no amendment to these regulations proposed by the Local ABC
Administrator may be less stringent than the statutes relating to Alcoholic
Beverage Control, or than regulations of the ABC Board. No regulation of the
Local ABC Administrator shall become effective until the Jessamine County
Fiscal Court has first appropriately approved it.
   (F)   No person shall be a Local ABC Administrator, an investigator or an
employee of the city and/or county under the supervision of the Local ABC
Administrator who would be disqualified to be a member of the ABC Board under
KRS 241.100.
   (G)   The Local ABC Administrator shall have all authority as authorized
under KRS Chs. 241 through 244. The Local ABC Administrator, and the ABC
Administrator's investigators, may inspect any premises where alcoholic
beverages are manufactured, sold, stored or otherwise trafficked in, without
first obtaining a search warrant.
   (H)   Should the Local ABC Administrator at any time have reasonable grounds
to believe that any applicant, licensee, employee of a licensee, or any
stockholder, agent or employee of a licensed corporation, LLC or other business
organization, has a criminal record, he or she shall have the authority to
require such person to appear in person at the Jessamine County Sheriff
Department for the purpose of having his or her fingerprints taken.
   (I)   The Local ABC Administrator before entering upon his or her duties as
such shall take the oath as prescribed in § 228 of the Constitution.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.031 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from the orders of the Local ABC Administrator may be taken to
the State ABC Board by filing with the Board within 30 days a certified copy of
the orders of the Local ABC Administrator. The Board shall hear matters at
issue as upon an original proceeding. Appeals from orders of the Local ABC
Administrator shall be governed by KRS Chapter 13B.
   (B)   When any decision of the Local ABC Administrator shall have been
appealed, or when a protest has been lodged against an application for any
license within the county, and the ABC Board shall have made a decision
regarding such appeal or protested application, the Local ABC Administrator,
upon receipt of notice of finality of the decision, shall enter such orders and
take such action as required by the final order of the ABC Board. As provided
by law, and as used herein, no order of the ABC Board is final until all
appeals or appeal times shall have been exhausted. A "final order" of the ABC
Board is the order entered by said Board, unless an appeal is taken from the
Board's order, in which case the "final order" is the order entered by the
Board upon direction from the reviewing court of last resort in the final order
of said reviewing court.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
APPLICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF LICENSE
§ 111.040 ADVERTISEMENT.
   Before an application for a license shall be considered, the applicant must
publish a notice of its intent to apply for an alcoholic beverage license in a
newspaper meeting the requirements of KRS Ch. 424:
   (A)   The advertisement shall state the name and address of the applicant.
It shall state the members of the partnership if the applicant is a
partnership, and membership of the LLC if the applicant is an LLC, as well as
the name of the business and its address. If the applicant is a corporation,
the advertisement shall state the names and addresses of the principal officers
and directors of the corporation, as well as the name and address of the
corporation itself. All advertisements shall state the location of the premises
for which the license is sought, and the type of license for which application
is made.
   (B)   The applicant shall attach to the application a newspaper clipping of
the advertisement and proof of the publication as provided in KRS 424.170.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.041 APPLICATION FEE.
   A nonrefundable application fee of $50 shall be paid with the filing of the
application for a county license. Each application shall be accompanied by a
certified check, cash or a postal or express money order.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.042 FORM OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved by the Local
ABC Administrator. Applications for the issuance of new licenses and for
renewals of existing licenses shall be in writing and upon the forms provided
by the ABC Board and the Jessamine County Fiscal Court, as amended and
supplemented from time to time.
   (B)   The application shall be verified and shall set forth in detail such
information concerning the applicant and the premises for which the license is
sought as required by the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the ABC Board and the
Jessamine County Fiscal Court, including as follows:
      (1)   Name and address;
      (2)   Nature of interest;
      (3)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   Date of birth;
      (5)   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
Kentucky. If Jessamine County resident, indicate when residence was
established;
      (6)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license or
LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a license
under this chapter;
      (7)   Extent of stock or company ownership; and
      (8)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or LLC,
corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a license in
any other state or province.
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by a certified check, cash or a
postal or express money order for the amount of the license fee.
   (D)   In addition to the above specified information, the applicant shall
file with the application responses to any additional questions as may be posed
or prescribed by the Local ABC Administrator. The Jessamine County Fiscal Court
has adopted a statement of guidelines and priorities for the issuance of
licenses and, in order to determine the extent to which applications may
further or impede the objectives of those guidelines, the Jessamine County
Fiscal Court may, by municipal order, adopt a questionnaire to be submitted to
applicants for licenses. Upon adoption of the questionnaire, it shall become a
part of the application process. The initial questionnaire adopted by the
Jessamine County Fiscal Court is a part of this chapter and incorporated herein
as "quota package application questionnaire." The questionnaire may be altered,
expanded, supplemented or replaced by municipal order of the Jessamine County
Fiscal Court hereafter. In addition to the information contained in the
application and any county ordered questionnaire, the Local ABC Administrator
may require such other information as the Administrator may in his or her
discretion deem desirable, reasonable or appropriate to the consideration of
the application.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.043 OTHER CONDITIONS.
   In addition to any other inquiries, conditions or considerations required or
permitted by law:
   (A)   The Local ABC Administrator shall not grant any alcoholic beverage
license or approve a renewal of a license until the applicant and his or her
place of business shall have been approved by the County Building Inspector,
Jessamine County Health Department (if applicable), Jessamine County Fire
District and comply with the Jessamine County Zoning Regulations. The Local ABC
Administrator and the Jessamine County Fiscal Court reserve the right to limit
licensed premises to exist only in areas zoned for businesses or the applicant
or licensee has been issued a conditional use permit by the City of Wilmore/
Jessamine County Planning and Zoning Board.
   (B)   The premises to be licensed must have a certificate of occupancy in
compliance with the most recent publication of the Kentucky Building Codes.
   (C)   The certificate of occupancy must be displayed in a conspicuous place
on the premises.
   (D)   All applicants shall voluntarily submit to a criminal background check
and shall sign a waiver allowing the release of this information to the Local
ABC Administrator.
   (E)   No license to sell alcoholic beverages shall be granted or renewed to
any person who is delinquent in the payment of any taxes or fees due the county
at the time of issuing the license, nor shall any license be granted or renewed
to sell upon any premises or property owned and occupied by the licensee upon
which there are any delinquent taxes or fees due the county. Further, if a
licensee becomes delinquent in the payment of any taxes or any fees due the
county at any time during the license period, the license to sell alcoholic or
malt beverages shall be subject to revocation or suspension.
   (F)   No person, whether an applicant for license, or a licensee, shall in
any manner attempt to bribe, threaten, unduly influence or intimidate the Local
ABC Administrator, or any member of his or her staff, or any State ABC
Administrator or staff, in any matter in which an application or proposed
application for license, or procedure for revocation or suspension is pending
before such officer. This division is not intended to stifle expressions of
opinion; however, it is intended to make clear that the ABC Administrators are
public officials charged with the administration and enforcement of the law,
both local and state. Any person applying for a license, or contesting the
revocation or suspension of a license, who engages in attempted bribes,
threats, attempted undue influence or intimidation of a Local ABC Administrator
or State ABC Administrator or staff shall be disqualified from receiving or
retaining a license, in addition to other penalties as provided by law. The
procedures for appeals shall apply to disqualifications, revocations or
suspensions under this section. This section shall not be interpreted to
prohibit monetary settlements in lieu of revocation or suspension of license
after a final order or revocation or suspension, where the chapter and
applicable statutes allow for such payments in settlement.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.044 FORM OF LICENSE.
   All county licenses shall be in such form as may be prescribed by the
Jessamine County Fiscal Court and shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the licensee;
   (B)   The number of the license;
   (C)   The type of license;
   (D)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the licensed
premises;
   (E)   The name and address of the owner of the building in which the
licensed premises are located;
   (F)   The expiration date of the license; and
   (G)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a property or
vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to law.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.045 CHANGE OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   If after a license to individuals or to a sole proprietor has been
issued, there is a change in any fact required to be set forth in the
application, a verified amendment in writing giving notice of the change shall
be filed with the Local ABC Administrator within ten days of the change.
   (B)   Since a number of licenses issued by the county are in the name of
corporations or other business organizations, it is necessary that ownership
changes in such organizations be reported to the Local ABC Administrator. The
Local ABC Administrator can, therefore, investigate the person to whom the
ownership or management is transferred in order to ascertain whether that
person is precluded by statute from holding an interest in an alcoholic
beverage license.
      (1)   As used with regard to a partnership, corporation, LLC or other
business organization herein, the word "change" is construed to include any
change in managers, partners or LLC members, directors or officers of the
corporation, or change in ownership or stock whereby any person secures 10% of
the outstanding ownership or stock. Transfer of more than 10% of the total
ownership or stock shall require a new license.
      (2)   The following information will be required concerning any new
manager, partner or LLC member, new director, officer, or person securing any
interest in an alcoholic beverage license:
         a.   Name and address;
         b.   Nature of interest;
         c.   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
         d.   Date of birth;
         e.   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
Kentucky. If a Jessamine County resident, indicate when residence was
established;
         f.   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license or
in any LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a
license under this chapter;
         g.   Extent of stock or company ownership; and
         h.   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or in
any LLC, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a
license in any other state or province.
      (3)   This information shall be filed with the Local ABC Administrator as
a verified amendment of the application pursuant to which the license was
granted. Filing shall be made within ten days of any change of required
information.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.046 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every year, except in the case of temporary licenses, each licensee
shall renew its license. All renewal licenses must be on file with the Local
ABC Administrator no less than 30 days prior to the expiration of the license
for the preceding license period or the same shall be canceled, except where
the licensee is unable to continue in business at the same premises licensed
during the preceding license period as a result of construction, act of God,
casualty, death, the acquisition or threatened acquisition of the premises by
any federal, state, city or other governmental agency or private organization
possessing power of eminent domain, whether such acquisition is voluntary or
involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing
lease; provided that said licensee shall file a written verified statement no
less than 20 days from the expiration date of the license, setting forth these
facts, and the Local ABC Administrator is hereby authorized to extend the time
for filing of a renewal of such license for a reasonable length of time within
the sound discretion of the Local ABC Administrator; provided, however, such
licensee shall pay a license fee from the expiration date of the former license
or licenses. Said license fee shall not be payable until application is made
for the transfer of said license to a new location.
   (B)   The renewal by the Local ABC Administrator of the license shall not be
construed to be a waiver or acceptance of any violation which occurred prior to
such renewal and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings against the licensee.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.047 LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSE.
   When a license shall be lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the
licensee or his or her agent or employee, a duplicate in lieu of the original
license shall be issued by the Local ABC Administrator after the Administrator
shall have been satisfied as to the facts; provided, however, that the
applicant for said duplicate license shall pay a fee of $10 for the duplicate
license.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.048 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked or suspended by the Local ABC Administrator
per KRS 243.490 if the licensee shall have violated: any of the provisions of
KRS Chs. 241 through 244; or administrative regulation of the ABC Board
relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale, and transportation of
alcoholic beverages; or of the Department of Revenue relating to the taxation
of alcoholic beverages; or if such licensee shall have violated or shall
violate any act of Congress or any rule or regulation of any federal board,
agency or Jessamine County Fiscal Court, or this chapter now, heretofore, or
hereafter in effect relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and
transportation or taxation of intoxicating liquors or any rules or regulations
of the county heretofore in existence or authorized by the terms of KRS Chs.
241 through 244 to be created, when an agent, servant, or employee of the
licensee committed the violation, irrespective of whether the licensee knew of
or permitted the violation or whether the violation was committed in
disobedience of his or her instructions; or any such license may be revoked or
suspended for any cause which the Local ABC Administrator in the exercise of
his or her sound discretion deems sufficient.
   (B)   A license may be revoked for any of the reasons for which the Local
ABC Administrator would have been required to refuse a license if the facts had
been known.
   (C)   Any license may be revoked or suspended for the following causes:
      (1)   Conviction of the licensee or the licensee's agent, servant, or
employee for selling any illegal alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises;
      (2)   Making any false, material statements in an application or renewal
application for a license or supplemental license;
      (3)   Conviction of the licensee or any of the licensee's agents,
servants, or employees of:
         (a)   Two violations of the terms and provisions of KRS Chs. 241 to
244, or any act regulating the manufacture, sale, and transportation of
alcoholic beverages within two consecutive years;
         (b)   Two misdemeanors directly or indirectly attributable to the use
of alcoholic beverages within two consecutive years; or
         (c)   Any felony;
      (4)   Failure or default of a licensee to pay an excise tax or any part
of the tax or any penalties imposed by or under the provisions of any statutes,
ordinances, or Acts of Congress relative to taxation, or for a violation of any
related administrative regulations promulgated by the Department of Revenue;
      (5)   Revocation of any license or permit provided in KRS 243.060,
243.070, 243.600, and 243.610, or granted under any Act of Congress relative to
the regulation of the manufacture, sale, and transportation of alcoholic
beverages;
      (6)   Setting up, conducting, operating, or keeping, on the licensed
premises, any gambling game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery, gift
enterprise, handbook, or facility for betting or transmitting bets on horse
races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept, or engaged in, on
the licensed premises, any gambling game, device, machine, contrivance,
lottery, gift enterprise, handbook, or facility. This division shall not apply
to:
         (a)   The sale of lottery tickets sold under the provisions of KRS Ch.
154A;
         (b)   The operation of a pari-mutuel system for betting, where
authorized by law;
         (c)   The conduct of charitable gaming by a charitable organization
licensed or permitted under KRS Ch. 238; or
         (d)   Special temporary raffles of alcoholic beverages under KRS
243.036;
      (7)   Conviction of the licensee, the licensee's agents, servants, or
employees for:
         (a)   The trafficking or possession upon the licensed premises of
controlled or illegal substances described In KRS Ch. 218A, including synthetic
drugs;
         (b)   Knowingly permitting the trafficking or possession by patrons
upon the licensed premises of controlled or illegal substances described in KRS
Ch. 218A, including synthetic drugs; or
         (c)   Knowingly receiving stolen property upon the licensed premises.
      (8)   Failure to comply with the terms of a final order of the Board.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.049 PROCEEDINGS FOR REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the verified complaint of any person, or on the initiative of any
law enforcement officer or of the Local ABC Administrator, the Local ABC
Administrator may institute proceedings to revoke or suspend any license
granted under this chapter. A license may be revoked or suspended only after
the licensee shall have been given written notice, by certified or registered
mail, of the proposed revocation, including notice of the reasons for such
proposed action. The licensee shall be given opportunity to be heard in
opposition to the proposed revocation or suspension. The notice of proposed
action shall advise the licensee of the date, time and place of the hearing.
Notice shall be sufficient if mailed to the licensee at the address shown in
the last application for a license or in the last statement supplemental to or
in amendment of the application, whether or not the mailing is receipted for or
claimed.
   (B)   The specific procedures to be followed in hearings on actions for
revocation or suspension shall be prescribed by the Fiscal Court of Jessamine
County by local order. Such order shall be maintained on file in the office of
the Local ABC Administrator and a copy furnished with any notice of proposed
revocation or suspension sent to a licensee. If the Jessamine County Fiscal
Court shall fail to adopt such municipal order, the procedures shall be those
set out in the Kentucky Administrative Procedure Act (KRS Ch. 13B).
   (C)   A decision of the Local ABC Administrator revoking or suspending a
license may be appealed as provided in KRS 243.550.
   (D)   Within three days after any order of revocation or suspension of a
license becomes final, notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee and
to the owner of the licensed premises. A notice mailed to the licensee and to
the owner of the licensed premises at the address shown in the last application
for a license or in the last statement supplemental to the application shall be
deemed sufficient compliance with this section. The licensee shall at once
surrender his or her license to the Local ABC Administrator. If the revoked or
suspended license is not forthwith surrendered by the licensee, the Sheriff, at
the request of the Local ABC Administrator, shall immediately cause one of his
or her officers to take physical possession of the license and return it to the
Local ABC Administrator.
   (E)   When a license has been revoked or suspended, the former licensee may,
with prior approval of the Local ABC Administrator, dispose of and transfer his
or her stock of alcoholic beverages to an appropriate entity.
   (F)   Appeal from the decision of the Local ABC Administrator revoking or
suspending a license shall be to the ABC Board. The timely filing of an appeal
shall stay further proceedings for revocation.
   (G)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the Local ABC
Administrator, and the decision is not appealed, the licensee shall at once
suspend all operations authorized under his or her license. Upon the entry of a
final order of the ABC Board sustaining or ordering revocation or suspension on
appeal, the licensee shall at once suspend all operations authorized under this
license.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.050 TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned either
to licensee or location except with prior approval of the Local ABC
Administrator and not then until a payment of $100 shall be made to the
Jessamine County Fiscal Court.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.051 REFUSAL OF LICENSE; GUIDELINES FOR APPROVAL OF QUOTA LICENSES.
   (A)   The Local ABC Administrator may refuse to issue or renew a license for
any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a license and for suspension
or revocation of a county license shall be the same as provided for state
licenses according to KRS 243.450, 243.490 and 243.500, as well as violation of
any county ordinance regarding alcohol beverage licensing, sales or the
administration thereof;
      (2)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of license
would be authorized; or
      (3)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his or
her application.
   (B)   In the case of quota licenses, before approving an application, the
Local ABC Administrator is hereby directed to consider, in addition to the
factors set out in KRS 243.450, 243.490 and 243.500 and any other factors the
Administrator determines in his or her discretion to be reasonable and
pertinent to the license application, the following criteria:
      (1)   Ownership. Jessamine County places great value on business owners
who are invested in the community.
      (2)   Economic impact. Jessamine County desires businesses which make the
most positive impact on the community, in number of jobs, payroll, property
investment and revenues to the community.
      (3)   Site of business. Jessamine County is interested in serving all
geographic areas of the county. Therefore, the county does not wish to cluster
all licensed ABC outlets in one area.
      (4)   Aesthetics. Jessamine County is committed to protecting the
character and beauty of our community.
      (5)   Capital. Jessamine County values businesses that demonstrate their
ability to financially support and sustain their viability.
      (6)   Public support of licensed business in the area. Jessamine County
intends that public sentiment and safety be considered in deciding upon the
approval of retail liquor sales licenses in any area of the county.
   (C)   An applicant who has been refused a license by the Local ABC
Administrator may appeal the refusal to the ABC Board pursuant to KRS 241.200.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.052 REVIEW OF LICENSE; BOOKS, RECORDS, AUDIO AND VISUAL RECORDINGS, AND
REPORTS.
   (A)   Applicants to whom a license is issued pursuant to this chapter shall
provide periodic information demonstrating compliance with the conditions of
any license, such as, but not limited to, the continuing requirement that a
minimum percentage of the applicant's business income is earned from the sale
of food. This documentation shall be provided on a schedule to be coordinated
with the applicant's quarterly regulatory fee filings. The Local ABC
Administrator shall provide the form schedule to the licensee. The licensee's
acceptance of a license to manufacture or traffic in alcoholic beverages shall
constitute consent to the filing of the quarterly report. In the case of
caterer filing, the quarterly report shall identify each catered event by type
of event, date and address of the event, and shall provide a per event
breakdown of sales and the ratio of food sales to alcohol sales during the
reporting period. This requirement for filing of reports notwithstanding, the
Local ABC Administrator may at any time come upon the premises of any licensee
and examine the books, audio and visual recordings, and records to determine
whether the licensee is in compliance with all parts of this chapter. In the
event the conditions of any license requirement are not met during any
particular quarter, the Local ABC Administrator shall have discretion in
determining whether revocation is appropriate or whether the licensee may be
allowed a reasonable period of time to reach compliance. If a good faith effort
is demonstrated by the licensee, the Local ABC Administrator may apply an
accounting period of at least one year in determining whether or not the food
sale percentage requirement has been met.
   (B)   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain upon the
licensed premises adequate books and records of all transactions involved in
the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the ABC Board. Such books and records shall be available at all
reasonable times for inspection by the Local ABC Administrator and such
employees who may assist the Local ABC Administrator in his or her review.
   (C)   For the purpose of assisting the Local ABC Administrator in
enforcement of this chapter, every licensee required to report to the ABC Board
under KRS 243.850 shall provide a copy of such report to the Local ABC
Administrator. Copies of any and all reports and correspondences to the ABC
Board required by statute shall be furnished to the Local ABC Administrator.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.053 DORMANCY.
   (A)   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business
authorized by such a license or else the license will be declared dormant and
become null and void after 90 days. Such is the intent of this section.
Realizing that a licensee, like other business, may have his or her business
interrupted by situations not under his or her control, various exceptions to
the dormancy rule have been included in this section.
   (B)   Any license under which no business is transacted during a period of
90 days shall be deemed inactive and, unless the conditions set forth in
division (C) below are proved to the satisfaction of the Local ABC
Administrator, the license shall be surrendered to the Local ABC Administrator.
If the license is not voluntarily surrendered, it shall be revoked by the Local
ABC Administrator.
   (C)   The provisions of division (B) hereof shall not apply to any licensee
who is unable to continue in business at the premises for which a license is
issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, the acquisition of
the premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental agency under
power of eminent domain, whether acquisition is voluntary or involuntary, or
loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing lease. Prior to the
expiration of 90 days of inactivity, such licensee shall furnish to the Local
ABC Administrator a verified statement setting forth the fact that the licensee
is unable to continue in business, for any of the specific reasons set forth
herein, and the Local ABC Administrator may grant an extension of the dormancy
with the license continuing to remain in effect during the license period or
until same is transferred to another premises, notwithstanding the fact that no
business is transacted during said period; provided, however, no such license
shall be considered valid unless business is conducted there under within 12
months from the date of notice to the Local ABC Administrator. Such extension
may not extend beyond the renewal date but may be for such times as the Local
ABC Administrator deems appropriate in exercise of his or her sound discretion.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
HOURS FOR SALE AND DELIVERY
§ 111.060 HOURS FOR SALE AND DELIVERY.
   (A)   A licensee for distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages by the
drink, shall be permitted to sell or dispense alcoholic beverages Monday
through Saturday, from 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. of the following day, and on
Sunday from 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. on Monday and on New Year's Eve until 2:00
a.m. on January 1, regardless of the day of the week January 1 shall fall upon,
provided that the appropriate licenses and approvals have been obtained from
both the county and the state ABC Board.
   (B)   Retail package distilled spirits, wine and malt beverage sales shall
be permitted at all hours except for the period from 1:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. on
Sunday.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021; Am. Ord. passed 4-18-2023))
CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 111.070 GAMBLING.
   No gambling or game of chance unless otherwise authorized by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be permitted in any form on such licensed
premises. Dice, slot machines, or any device of chance is prohibited and shall
not be kept on such premises.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.071 RADIO RECEIVING APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee licensed under this chapter to have or
maintain any radio receiving apparatus on such premises which is intentionally
adjusted so as to receive police messages broadcast from any law enforcement
agency in Jessamine County as it is now or may hereafter be operated. In
addition to other penalties provided for the violation of this section, the
Sheriff or the Local ABC Administrator, or his or her designated investigator,
shall have the authority to confiscate any and all such radio receiving
apparatus.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.072 SECURITY.
   The licensee shall be responsible for maintaining security on his or her
premises, including providing adequate outside lighting to permit customers to
utilize the parking area and to promote the safety, health and welfare of the
general public utilizing the licensed premise. Security standards are further
necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around the licensed premises.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.073 PRIZES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the licensee under this chapter who sells alcoholic
beverages of any kind to give away or offer to give away anything tangible of
value as a premium or prize, or for any other purpose in direct connection with
the sale of alcoholic beverages nor shall any licensee give away any alcoholic
beverage in any quantity for less than a full monetary consideration.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.074 DRUNKENNESS.
   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any person to
become drunk or intoxicated on the premises, nor shall any licensee sell
alcoholic beverages to any person who appears to be a reasonable person to be
actually or apparently under the influence of alcoholic beverages. No licensee
shall permit any person who appears to a reasonable person to be apparently
under the influence of alcoholic beverages, controlled substances, other
intoxicating substances, or any of these substances in combination, to the
degree that the person may endanger any person or property, or unreasonably
annoy persons in the vicinity to remain on the licensed premises. As used
herein, whether a person is actually or apparently under the influence of
alcoholic beverages shall be determined by the licensee or server with specific
reference to the principles and guidelines established in mandatory alcohol
server training as to the signs of alcohol intoxication.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.075 UNDERAGE SALES.
   The licensee shall not sell or dispense alcoholic beverages to any person
who is under 21 years of age. The licensee shall check all IDs to ascertain
that every person attempting to purchase or consume alcoholic beverages is at
least 21 years of age.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.076 SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place a sign at
least 8.5 inches by 11 inches in 30-point or larger type which states as
follows:
   (B)   "Persons under the age of 21 are subject to a fine of up to $100 if
they:
      (1)   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages;
      (2)   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to
purchase alcoholic beverages; or
      (3)   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages."
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.077 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   (A)   The licensee, except holders of special temporary licenses, before
commencing any business for which a license has been issued, shall post and
display the license at all times in a conspicuous place in the room or
principal room where the business is carried on so that all persons visiting
the place may readily see the license. The licensee shall not at any time post
the license on premises other than the licensed premises or upon premises where
traffic in alcoholic beverages is being carried on by any person other than the
licensee, or knowingly deface, destroy or alter the license in any respect.
   (B)   The licensee shall post in a prominent place easily seen by patrons a
printed sign at least 8.5 inches by 11 inches in size, and with gender-neutral
language supplied by the Cabinet for Health Services, which shall warn that
drinking alcoholic beverages prior to conception or during pregnancy can cause
birth defects.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Display of license, see KRS 243.895
§ 111.078 LEGAL TRANSACTIONS FOR WHOLESALERS, DISTRIBUTORS AND RETAIL.
   (A)   No wholesaler or distributor shall sell any alcoholic beverages to any
person in the county for any consideration except under the usual credit or
cash terms of the wholesaler or distributor at or before the time of delivery.
Nor shall any retail licensee sell to a purchaser for any consideration except
for cash at time of purchase.
   (B)   Retail licensee must purchase alcoholic beverages from wholesaler or
distributor, or special agent or solicitor, who is licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages to the particular purchaser.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.079 EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   No licensee shall knowingly employ in connection with the licensed business
any person who:
   (A)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two years;
   (B)   Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of alcoholic beverages within the last two
years;
   (C)   Is under the age of 20 years who will be serving alcoholic beverages
or who will be having any contact whatsoever with the sale of alcohol as
defined under state statute. However, at a premise licensed solely with a non-
quota retail malt beverage package license, a person that is at least 18 years
of age may be employed to sell packaged malt beverages so long as said person
is under the supervision of a person 20 years of age or older; or
   (D)   Within two years priorto the date of his or her employment, has had
any county license under this chapter revoked for cause.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.080 HAPPY HOUR RESTRICTIONS.
   Licensees shall not offer reduced drink specials (e.g. two-for-one, happy
hours) after the hour of 10:00 p.m. until closing.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.081 LAVATORY FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   All retail package licenses shall be required to provide indoor lavatory
facilities for employees. All retail beer and retail drink licenses shall be
required to provide indoor lavatory facilities for their customers where such
beverages are consumed on the premises.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.082 NUDITY AND ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall offer or permit nudity, adult entertainment activities,
including nude or nearly nude dancing, adult motion picture, television, slide
or stage shows, cabarets or sexual entertainment centers on any licensed
premise. No licensee shall permit explicit sexual activity, whether actual or
simulated, upon any licensed premises. No licensee shall sponsor or permit wet
t-shirt or wet clothing contests, lingerie fashion shows, mud wrestling, jello
wrestling or similar activities, nor shall a licensee allow dancing with
touching for compensation (including but not limited to wages, tips or
gratuities), or any other service, display or contest requiring physical
contact between patrons and/or patrons and employees on any licensed premises.
No licensee shall sponsor, offer or permit drinking contests, all-you-can-drink
specials or free drinks on any licensed premise in the county.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.083 DRIVE-THROUGH OUTLETS PROHIBITED.
   No license shall be issued for any premises to operate a vehicle "drive-
through" outlet for the sale of alcoholic beverages, nor shall any person or
licensee operate or permit such a vehicle drive-through outlet. This
prohibition shall not apply to a drive-up window at any premises licensed for
retail package liquor, wine or malt beverage, including retail beer, where the
primary sales area is arranged for and utilized by persons entering the
premises on foot and manually carrying out the products purchased therein.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.084 CAUSE FOR REVOCATION.
   Violation of this subchapter shall subject the licensee to penalties
provided in this chapter and shall be cause for revocation of license.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.085 RETAIL PREMISES NOT TO BE DISORDERLY.
   (A)   A retail licensee, a patron, or the licensee's agents, servants, or
employees shall not cause, suffer, or permit the licensed premises to be
disorderly.
   (B)   Acts which constitute disorderly premises consist of causing,
suffering, or permitting patrons, the licensee, or the licensee's servants,
agents, or employees to cause public inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, or
create a risk through:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting or in violent, tumultuous, or threatening
behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise;
      (3)   Refusing to obey an official order to disperse issued to maintain
public safety in dangerous proximity to a fire, hazard, or other emergency;
      (4)   Creating a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
that serves no legitimate purpose;
      (5)   Creating a public nuisance which is further defined by KRS 241.010
(50);
      (6)   Engaging in criminal activity that would constitute a capital
offense, felony, or misdemeanor; or
      (7)   Failing to maintain the minimum health, fire, safety, or sanitary
standards established by the state or local government, or by state
administrative regulations, for the licensed premises.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see KRS 244.120
MINORS
§ 111.095 POSSESSION BY MINORS PROHIBITED; NO PERSON SHALL AID POSSESSION BY
MINORS.
   (A)   Except as specifically authorized under KRS Chs. 241 through 244, no
person under the age of 21 may possess alcoholic beverages or enter onto any
licensed premises for the purpose of acquiring alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   As provided in KRS 244.085, no person under the age of 21, except in
the company of a parent or guardian, may enter any premises licensed for the
package sale of alcoholic beverages. For purposes of this prohibition,
"premises" specifically encompasses the entire lot upon which a licensed
establishment is situated, including any drive-up window. The prohibition
contained in this division (B) shall not apply to premises where the usual and
customary business of the establishment is a gas station, convenience store,
grocery store, drugstore, or similar establishment.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly allow, aid, assist, induce, cause or
otherwise encourage any minor to be in possession of, use or consume alcoholic
beverages. All licensees, as set out in §
111.077, shall require proof of age of all persons attempting to purchase or
consume alcoholic beverages on the licensee's premises.
   (D)   No person being the owner or occupant or otherwise in possession or
control of any property located within the county shall knowingly allow any
minor to remain on such property while in possession of, using or consuming
alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this section if the
person charged, upon discovery of said minor individuals, manifests a proper
effort to enlist the aid of and cooperate with law enforcement personnel in
stopping the minor individual's possession, consumption or use of alcoholic
beverages, or that the minor individual's possession of alcoholic beverages was
exempted by KRS 244.087.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES PROHIBITED
§ 111.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HABITUAL. Consistent, that is, by frequent practice or use, but not
necessarily constant or exclusive.
   PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE. A retail establishment selling distilled spirits, wine
and malt beverages in package containers pursuant to licenses issued for those
purposes.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any activity that endangers or interferes with the general
use and enjoyment of neighboring property, passers-by or the health, safety and
welfare of the public.
   VACANT PROPERTY. A vacant lot on which no building or other structure exists
or property on which any structure is unoccupied or unused, or which otherwise
reflects abandonment by the owner or person with the right of occupancy.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.101 CONSUMPTION ON LICENSED PACKAGE PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   No licensee of a package store, whether trafficking in distilled spirits,
wine or malt beverages, shall permit consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
premises unless said person or entity shall also have a drink license
conferring the privilege of consumption on the premises.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.102 EXCEPTIONS.
   The restriction regarding on premises consumption shall not prohibit
sampling as allowed for microbreweries and wineries under the provisions of KRS
Ch. 243, or where sampling is permitted for a retail distilled spirits and wine
licensee under the provisions of KRS 244.050, or beer tastings as permitted in
804 KAR 11:030.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.103 HABITUAL CONGREGATING.
   (A)   Licensed premises. No person or entity operating a package liquor
store, whether trafficking in distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages,
including retail package beer licensees, shall knowingly allow or permit
habitual congregating of persons on the unenclosed portion of the licensed
premises so as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   Vacant property. No person or entity being the owner or otherwise in
possession or control of any vacant property adjacent to a licensed premise
shall knowingly allow or permit habitual congregating of persons on the
unenclosed portion of such property so as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (C)   No persons shall congregate for the purposes, under the circumstances,
or in the places proscribed in divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   It shall be a defense to any prosecution under divisions (A) and (B)
above if such licensed vendor or property owner shall permit the Local
Administrator to post and maintain a legible, painted or printed sign in at
least two separate prominent places in such area, in letters of not less than
three inches in height, stating that congregating of persons is prohibited and
that violators shall be prosecuted for trespass pursuant to KRS 511.080.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
MALT BEVERAGE KEG REGISTRATION
§ 111.110 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   KEG. A container designed and capable of holding six or more gallons of malt
beverage.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.111 MALT BEVERAGE KEG IDENTIFICATION TAG.
   All retail licensees (herein after referred to as "licensee") operating
within Jessamine County who sell malt beverages in kegs for consumption off the
premises of the licensee shall attach a numbered identification tag or other
device as provided by the Local ABC Administrator to each keg at the time of
sale and shall require the purchaser to complete and sign a keg registration
form for the keg stating the following:
   (A)   The purchaser is of legal age to purchase, possess and use the malt
beverage;
   (B)   The purchaser is not purchasing the keg for resale and will not allow
any person under the age of 21 to consume the malt beverage;
   (C)   The purchaser will not remove, obliterate or allow to be removed or
obliterated the identification tag;
   (D)   The purchaser will state the property address where the keg will be
consumed and physically located; and
   (E)   The purchaser is aware of his/her duty to maintain a copy of the keg
registration form visible and readily accessible from the location of the keg.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.112 KEG REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The licensee shall obtain the name, address and telephone number of
the purchaser and shall require the purchaser to produce a valid driver's
license number and, if that is not available, to produce at least one other
valid form of identification.
   (B)   The licensee shall retain copies of the keg registration forms for a
period of one year and shall make the keg registration form available for
inspection by state and local alcoholic beverage control officers and other
enforcement officers.
   (C)   The keg registration form shall be forwarded to the Local ABC
Administrator within five working days in all situations when the keg is not
returned or is returned with the identification tag removed or obliterated.
   (D)   The Local ABC Administrator is authorized to develop appropriate rules
and regulations and to develop and make available forms for the identification
tags and keg registration forms.
   (E)   All licensees that sell or offer for sale kegs shall post on the
licensed premises a notice provided by the Local ABC Administrator concerning
the provisions of this section.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.113 UNLAWFUL SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale kegs without
the identification tags attached and the keg registration form completed. It
shall also be unlawful for any person to remove or to obliterate the
identification tag or to fail to have the declaration form visible and readily
accessible from the location of the keg. The penalties for violation of this
section shall be the penalties as set out in §
111.999. In addition, licensees violating this section shall be subject to
appropriate alcoholic beverage control administrative remedies.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 111.125 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Sheriff, Deputy Sheriffs, City of Wilmore Police and Local ABC
Administrator are authorized to enforce this chapter for alleged violations.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING
§ 111.140 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   All persons employed in the selling and serving of alcoholic beverages
shall complete a server training course provided by the Kentucky Department of
Alcoholic Beverage Control, including any person(s) authorized to sell or serve
alcoholic beverages under a caterer's license.
   (B)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above
shall complete that training within 30 days of the date on which the person
first becomes subject to the training requirement. When a new business is
licensed to serve alcoholic beverages all employees must be trained prior to
the opening of the business.
   (C)   Each licensee shall be responsible for compliance with the training
requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the Local ABC Administrator a
record or file on each employee that shall contain the pertinent training
information. Each premise licensed hereunder must at all times when alcoholic
beverages are being served have at least one person currently certified in
responsible beverage service training on duty.
   (D)   All persons completing the training required by this section shall be
re-certified in a responsible beverage server training course provided by the
Kentucky Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control not less than once every
three years thereafter.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
SIGNS AND ADVERTISING
§ 111.150 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   (A)   All signage shall be in compliance with any and all other existing
rules and regulations of Jessamine County and the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (B)   No flashing lights shall be used to illuminate the exterior of any
premises licensed under this chapter.
   (C)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with KRS 244.130 and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (D)   No licensee shall publish or display advertising that is false or
misleading, nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that implies
that consumption of alcoholic beverages is fashionable or the accepted course
of behavior, or advertising that contains any statement, picture or
illustration implying that the consumption of alcoholic beverages enhances
athletic prowess, whether or not any known athlete is depicted or referred to,
nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that encourages
intoxication by referring to the intoxicating effects of alcohol (or the use of
terms such as "high test," "high proof or "extra strong") or depicting
activities that tend to encourage excessive consumption.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
PATIO AND OUTDOOR SALES
§ 111.160 PATIO AND OUTDOOR SALES REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Patio and outdoor sales of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted only
on premises licensed for sales of alcoholic beverages by the drink.
   (B)   No licensee shall offer alcoholic beverages for sale in a patio or
outdoor area of the licensee's premises except in a clearly defined patio or
outdoor area that is enclosed by a fence or other screening, not less than four
feet in height. All outdoor areas and screening shall be subject to the
approval of the County ABC Administrator. An exception to this restriction may
be granted for seasonal sidewalk cafes, upon application to and authorization
from the ABC County Administrator. The permission to operate a sidewalk cafe
shall be governed by the provisions of this subchapter and shall be subject to
the regulation of local zoning authorities as well as code enforcement and
public safety officers.
   (C)   No licensee shall offer patio or outdoor sales of alcoholic beverages
unless the patio or outdoor area and fencing or screening area shall have been
approved in advance by the ABC Administrator.
   (D)   Unless exempted by the following provisions of this chapter and by
permission of the County ABC Administrator, patio areas must comply with the
screening requirements of this chapter. Sidewalk cafe seating areas must comply
with this chapter and with local zoning chapter and other public safety
requirements noted in this chapter or in other provisions of local ordinance,
statute or regulation.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.161 EXCEPTION TO SCREENING REQUIREMENT FOR OUTDOOR SALES AND SERVICE OF
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN THE CASE OF PERMITTED SIDEWALK CAFES IN THE DOWNTOWN
BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Licensees in the Downtown Business District may request an exception
from this (outdoor screening of patio) provision to permit seasonal and
temporary sidewalk cafes that serve food and alcoholic beverages as an adjunct
to the primary and adjacent licensed premises. In the case of permitted
temporary sidewalk cafes, they shall be deemed part of the licensed premises. A
sidewalk cafe permit is deemed seasonal and temporary in that licensees with a
sidewalk cafe permit shall not place tables and seating on public sidewalks on
a continuous basis from November 1 through February 28; however tables and
seating may be placed intermittently during this period if appropriate weather
occurs.
   (B)   Any food establishment which operates a restaurant, which is defined
herein as a food establishment with a kitchen licensed by the Jessamine County
Health Department, and is licensed under this chapter and the provisions of the
State ABC Code, may, upon application to the Local ABC Administrator, ask
permission to expand on a seasonal and temporary basis, the operation of that
restaurant onto a part, and only that part, of the public sidewalk which
immediately adjoins the licensed premises (hereinafter referred to as "sidewalk
cafe"). Licensees who do not serve food shall not be eligible to apply for a
sidewalk cafe permit. A sidewalk cafe permit shall be valid for not more than
12 months at a time, but may be renewed upon the submission of a new
application.
   (C)   The ABC Administrator may issue the permit if he or she finds that:
      (1)   The applicant is licensed under this chapter and the ABC Code for
the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
      (2)   The applicant is in compliance with all conditions and restrictions
of said license;
      (3)   The applicant has all necessary building and use permits, including
certification of the Zoning Administrator that the sidewalk cafe is permitted
at the premises location, in addition to a kitchen license issued by the
Jessamine County Health Department; and
      (4)   Also finds that the issuance of the permit would not result in any
significant adverse land use impacts.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.162 CONDITIONS FOR SIDEWALK CAFE PERMIT.
   The issuance of a permit shall be subject to the following conditions and
restrictions; provided, however, that the ABC Administrator may without adverse
hearing procedures impose additional reasonable restrictions or withdraw
approval upon the operation of any sidewalk cafe where necessary in the
judgment of the said Administrator to protect the public health, safety or
welfare or to prevent a nuisance from developing or continuing. Specifically,
the permit may be revoked by the ABC Administrator if the conditions listed
below are violated or upon the violation of a federal, state or county/city
law. The permit will also be revoked if the food establishment has two or more
violations of the nuisance ordinance found in County of Jessamine Code of
Ordinances. If the permit is revoked, the owner of the food establishment shall
not be eligible to reapply until one year has passed from the date of the
permit revocation:
   (A)   No sidewalk cafe shall be permitted in any portion of the public
sidewalk where normal pedestrian traffic flow is obstructed. A minimum
clearance width of 36 inches must be maintained on the public sidewalk at all
times. The sidewalk cafe shall not be permitted in any manner to obstruct the
entrance/exit to the restaurant;
   (B)   No tables, chairs or any other furnishings, except plant tubs, shall
be placed in the area used for the sidewalk cafe during any period when the
sidewalk cafe is not open and being operated. They shall be removed at the end
of each business day at the hour specified in the permit. Umbrellas, tables,
chairs, and other portable appurtenances shall be confined to the area shown on
the approved permit. While such cafe is in operation, all tables and chairs
shall be kept in a clean, sanitary condition;
   (C)   The use of a portion of the public sidewalk as a sidewalk cafe shall
not be an exclusive use. All public improvements, including but not limited to,
trees, light poles, traffic signals, pull boxes or manholes, or any public-
initiated maintenance procedures, shall take precedence over said use of the
public sidewalk at all times;
   (D)   The licensee shall, in addition to all other requirements of law, take
reasonable steps to insure that alcoholic beverages are consumed only by
patrons of the establishment who are of age, and not by passersby or persons
who are not of age or who are obviously or apparently intoxicated;
   (E)   No disposable cups or drinking vessels may be used and the licensee
shall not permit any alcoholic beverages to be taken off premises by patrons,
customers or guests;
   (F)   No amplified sound shall be used within a sidewalk cafe. At no time
shall any music originating from any part of the premises create a nuisance;
   (G)   Dancing shall not be permitted or allowed in the sidewalk cafe;
   (H)   The licensee must at all times comply with all federal, state and
local laws regarding the sale, service and consumption of alcohol and the
operation of the premises; and
   (I)   The permit for sidewalk cafe may not be reassigned or transferred.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.163 OTHER REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO SIDEWALK CAFES.
   No sidewalk cafe permit shall be effective unless the licensee has filed
with the ABC Administrator evidence of insurance insuring the licensee against
liability imposed by law arising out of the ownership, maintenance or operation
of such sidewalk cafe in an amount to be established by the Jessamine County
Fiscal Court. The county shall be named an additional insured in the policy,
providing such insurance and such policy shall further provide that it may not
be canceled except upon ten days written notice (or more) filed with the ABC
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
IMPLEMENTATION OF CHAPTER PROVISIONS
§ 111.170 IMPLEMENTATION OF CHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   From time to time, the Jessamine County Fiscal Court may by resolution
or order promulgate such rules and regulations and may publish and utilize such
forms and other documents as in its discretion may be necessary for the proper
implementation of this chapter.
   (B)   If any section of this chapter, including but not limited to, any
section, division, sentence, clause, phrase, or any other portion of this
chapter, is declared illegal or unconstitutional, or otherwise invalid by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect the
remaining portions hereof.
   (C)   Effective date of chapter provisions. This chapter shall take effect
immediately after its passage and publications as required by law.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
§ 111.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any criminal prosecution instituted in Jessamine
District Court against an alleged violator, the Local ABC Administrator may
assess the fines and penalties authorized in KRS 243.480, including the per
diem assessments for ongoing violations. Should the fines or penalties assessed
by the state change under KRS 243.480, then the fines or penalties under this
chapter shall be adjusted accordingly to mirror the fines or penalties imposed
by state law. Payment of all fines shall be made to the Local ABC Administrator
who shall transmit said payments to the County Finance Department to be
deposited in the appropriate designated account.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter, for which no other penalty is hereby provided, shall, for the
first offense, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $200 or imprisoned in
the county jail for not more than six months, or both, and for the second and
each subsequent violation, he shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than
$500 or imprisoned in the county jail for not more than six months, or both.
The penalties provided for in this division shall be in addition to the
revocation or suspension of the offender's license. If the offender is a
corporation, LLC, joint stock company, association or other business
organization, or a fiduciary, the principal officer or officers responsible for
the violation may be imprisoned.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2021)
CHAPTER 112: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Findings
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Classifications
   
112.05   General restrictions, requirements and conditions
   
112.06   Exhibition of sexually explicit media or live entertainment
   
112.07   Inspection
   
112.08   Live performances
   
112.09   Recordkeeping requirements
   
112.10   Inspection fees
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses
in order to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of
the county, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulation relations to
sexually oriented businesses. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing of a limitation or restriction on the content of
any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly,
it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access
by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or
to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented
entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of
this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005)
§ 112.02 FINDINGS.
   Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects of adult uses on
the community presented in reports made available to the Fiscal Court, and on
findings incorporated in the case of Renton vs. Play Time Theaters, Inc, 475
U.S. 41 (1986), Young vs. American Mini Theaters, 426 U.S. 50 (1976), and
Barnes vs. Glen Theater, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991), and on studies in other
communities including but not limited to Phoenix, Arizona; Minnesota; Houston,
Texas; Indianapolis, Indiana; Amarillo, Texas; Garden Grove, California; Los
Angeles, California; Whittier, California; Austin, Texas; Seattle, Washington;
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Cleveland, Ohio; and Beaumont, Texas; and also on
findings from the report of Attorney General’s Working Group on the regulation
of sexually oriented businesses (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota), the Fiscal
Court finds:
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful and
unhealthful activities that are presently uncontrolled by the operators of the
establishments. Further, there is presently no mechanism to make the owners of
these establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their
premises;
   (B)   Certain employees of sexually oriented businesses defined in this
chapter as adult theaters and cabarets engage in higher incidents of certain
types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other establishments;
   (C)   Sexual acts occur at sexually oriented businesses, especially those
which provide private or semi-private booths or cubicles for viewing films,
videos or live sex shows;
   (D)   Offering and providing this space encourages those activities which
create unhealthy conditions;
   (E)   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades and other
sexually oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of these sexually oriented businesses;
   (F)   At least 50 communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in sexually oriented businesses;
   (G)   Since 1981 and to the present there has been an increasing cumulative
number of reported cases of AIDS caused by the human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV) in the United States. Through December 2001, there have been 1,284,059
reported cases of AIDS in the United States;
   (H)   As of December 31, 2003, there have been 4,071 reported cases of AIDS
in the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   (I)   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection, and
syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts;
   (J)   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the
failure of the owners and operators of the facilities to self- regulate those
activities and maintain those facilities;
   (K)   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found in
the areas of sexually oriented businesses where persons view adult oriented
films;
   (L)   The findings noted in divisions (A) through (K) raise substantial
governmental concerns;
   (M)   Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics which
premises with adult booths advances a substantial government concern;
   (N)   Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting on
premises with adult booths advances a substantial governmental interest in
curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult theaters;
and
   (O)   The general welfare, health and safety of the citizens of the county
will be promoted by the enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005)
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT AMUSEMENT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin-operated, slug-operated or for any form of consideration,
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors, video or laser disk players, or other image- producing
devices are regularly maintained to show images to 5 or fewer persons per
machine at any 1 time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOK STORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.  
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal purposes,
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any 1 or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations which are characterized by the depiction
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas and still be characterized as adult book store, adult novelty store or
adult video store. These other business purposes will not serve to exempt these
commercial establishments from being categorized as an adult book store, adult
novelty store or adult video store so long as 1 of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET.  A night club, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or are semi-nude;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions, which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the public right-of-way
which advertises the availability of these adult-type photographic
reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than 10 hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than 10 hours.
   ADULT MOTION THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form of
consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
dominant depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT STAGE SHOW THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
commercial establishments which regularly features persons who appear in a
state of nudity or semi-nude, or live performances which are characterized by
the exposure of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   COUNTY. County of Jessamine, Kentucky.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full-time, part-time or contract basis, whether or not
the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent or
otherwise and whether or not the person is paid a salary, wage or other
compensation by the operator of the business. EMPLOYEE does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods on the premises.
   ENTERTAINER. Any person who provides sexually oriented entertainment in a
sexually oriented business and whether or not an employee of the business and
whether or not a fee is charge or accepted for the entertainment.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as 1 of its primary business purposes
for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any sexually oriented business, whether existing or opening
of the business; the conversion of an existing business, whether or not a
sexually oriented business to any sexually oriented business; the additions of
any sexually oriented business.
   MANAGER. Any person who manages, directs, administers or is in charge of the
affairs and/or the conduct of a sexually oriented business.
   NUDE, NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   REGULARLY FEATURES AS REGULARLY SHOWN. A consistent or substantial course of
conduct such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a substantial
portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the ongoing business
of the sexually oriented business.
   SEMI-NUDE or IN A SEMI-NUDE CONDITION.  The showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or
the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall not include
the entire lower portion of the human female breast, exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel, provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Depiction of human genitals in a state of sexual
stimulation, active human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy, holding
or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or breasts.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as 1 of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when 1 or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult amusement arcade, adult book store,
adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult
motion picture theater, adult stage theater, escort agency or sexual encounter
center.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005)
§ 112.04 CLASSIFICATIONS.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult amusement arcades;
   (B)   Adult book stores, adult novelty stores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult stage theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies; and
   (H)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005)
§ 112.05 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS, REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   All sexually oriented businesses classified under §
112.04 shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by laws, which may be more restrictive,
no owner or operator of an establishment shall knowingly permit a person under
18 years of age to be employed by or enter the establishment.
   (B)   An establishment must have an employee on duty at all times in which
the business is open and who must be positioned at a station in the premises
which is located in such a manner that the entrance can be monitored at all
times. Any person who reasonably appears to be under the age of 18 shall be
requested to verify his or her age. All persons under the age of 18 discovered
in the establishment shall be immediately escorted out of the premises.
   (C)   No establishment, except for an adult motel, shall remain open at any
time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MEDIA OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space a film, video
cassette, live entertainment or other video reproduction which depicts
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with
the following requirements:
      (1)   Any wall or partition, which is situated so as to create a viewing
area in which any amusement device or viewing screen is located, shall be
constructed of not less than 1-hour fire-restriction material and shall contain
no hole or other perforation;
      (2)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there shall be an unobstructed view from a manager’s or cashier’s station
of every area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any
purpose excluding restrooms. The view in this section must be by direct line of
sight from the manager’s or cashier’s station;
      (3)   No viewing room or booth shall be obstructed by any doors,
curtains, partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials. No
patron shall be permitted access to any area of the premises which has been
designated as an area to which patrons are not permitted;
      (4)   No viewing room or booth shall be occupied by more than 1 person at
any time. No owner, operator or employee shall knowingly permit any viewing
room or booth to be occupied by more than 1 person at any time;
      (5)   No restroom shall contain any video reproduction devices or
equipment;
      (6)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
to access at an illumination of not less than 10 foot-candles as measured at
floor level;
      (7)   It shall be the duty of the owner, operator or employee to ensure
that the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any
patron or customer is present in the premises;
      (8)   No owner, operator or employee shall allow openings of any kind to
exist between viewing rooms or booths;
      (9)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind to
exist between viewing rooms or booths;
      (10)   The owner and/or employees shall, during each business day, cause
the walls between the viewing booths to be regularly inspected to determine if
any openings or holes exist;
      (11)   All floor coverings in viewing rooms or booths shall be non-
porous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting; and
      (12)   There must be at least 1 employee on duty and situated at the
manager’s station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   (B)   All sexually oriented businesses in operation in the county on the
effective date of this chapter shall comply with the configuration requirements
of division (A)(1)(2) within 120 days after the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 INSPECTION.
   All sexually oriented businesses shall permit representatives of the county,
including representatives of the Sheriff’s Department, Fire Department or other
county departments or agencies, to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented
business for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is
occupied or open for business.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005)
§ 112.08 LIVE PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   All live performances in any sexually oriented business shall be on a
designated performance area consisting of a stage or platform at least 18
inches above the immediate floor level and removed at least 6 feet from any
area in which any patrons are permitted.
   (B)   No person shall appear nude or in a state of nudity while engaged in
any live performance on the premises of any sexually oriented business.
   (C)   No person shall appear semi-nude or in a semi-nude condition while
engaged in any live performance on the premises of any sexually oriented
business except on the stage or platform described in division (A) of this
section.
   (D)   No entertainer or employee shall be permitted to have any physical
contact with any patron during any performance.
   (E)   No entertainer or employee shall be visible from any public place
outside the premises during any performance.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS.
   Each sexually oriented business shall maintain and retain for a period of 2
years beyond the last date of employment, the full time, date of birth, last
known address, date of termination and social security number of all persons
employed by the sexually oriented business.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005)
§ 112.10 INSPECTION FEES.
   Each sexually oriented business prior to opening shall pay a fee of $200 to
the County Occupational License Fee office for the costs incurred by the county
for inspecting the business for full compliance with this chapter and shall
thereafter pay $200 per annum in addition to the regular county occupational
license fee for the cost of continuing inspections.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500, or
be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 12 months, or both.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005)
CHAPTER 113: PRECIOUS METALS DEALERS; SECOND-HAND PURCHASERS; PEDDLERS AND
SOLICITORS
Section
Precious Metals Dealers
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Record required
   
113.03   Report to Sheriff’s Department
   
113.04   Storage of articles
   
113.05   Purchase restrictions
 
   
113.99   Penalty
PRECIOUS METALS DEALERS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRECIOUS METALS DEALER. Any business, excluding banking institutions
licensed to do business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky, making any second-hand
purchases of gold, silver or platinum, whether in the form of bulk metal,
coins, watches, jewelry or any other form. The term SECOND-HAND PURCHASE shall
not include any purchase made by a retailer or wholesaler from a bona fide
manufacturer.
(Ord. passed 4-21-1981)
§ 113.02 RECORD REQUIRED.
   Any business meeting the definition of precious metals dealers shall keep a
record of all purchases of gold, silver or platinum. The County Sheriff’s
Department shall furnish standard forms for these purposes, which shall at a
minimum require the following information: date, time, amount paid by the
dealer for the item, manufacturer name and pattern, if ascertainable, serial
number, if any, any distinguishing marks or engraving, weight of the item,
pattern, number of items, and settings if any.
   Additionally, the following information shall be required for the sellers:
name, address, date of birth, age, hair color, race, sex, height, weight,
build, general appearance, distinguishing marks, legible right thumb print,
driver’s license number or numbers from 2 IDs, which may include credit cards,
and a photograph.
(Ord. passed 4-21-1981)
§ 113.03 REPORT TO SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT.
   All precious metals dealers shall furnish to the Jessamine County Sheriff’s
Department each day by 11:00 a.m. a copy of the completed record form for all
transactions which took place during the preceding day. It shall be the duty of
any precious metals dealer to allow any member of the Jessamine County
Sheriff’s Department to examine and inspect the records required above, and if
sufficient information cannot be gained from inspection of the records, it
shall be the duty of any precious metals dealer to permit and allow the officer
to examine any and all such articles still in their possession.
(Ord. passed 4-21-1981)
§ 113.04 STORAGE OF ARTICLES.
   Each and every article or set of articles received by a precious metals
dealer shall be kept with the aforementioned record form attached during the
entire time it is in the possession of the licensee or until the item is
altered or changed in such a way as to make it no longer readily identifiable,
whichever happens first. All these articles shall be retained at the place of
business or other location where the articles may be made readily available
upon request, to the County Sheriff’s Department in the same state or condition
in which they were received for a period of 12 consecutive days after their
receipt, during which time they shall not be resold, exchanged or otherwise
disposed of. Coins having no numismatic value, Krugerrands and manufactured
ingots shall be so retained for 5 consecutive days.
(Ord. passed 4-21-1981)
§ 113.05 PURCHASE RESTRICTIONS.
   In no case shall a precious metals dealer make a second-hand purchase of
gold, silver or platinum from a minor, unless the minor is accompanied by a
parent or guardian. Purchases shall likewise not be made of any goods which the
precious metals dealer knows or has reason to believe are stolen.
(Ord. passed 4-21-1981) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provision of §§
113.01 through
113.05 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $25 dollars nor
more than $500, or imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both so fined and
imprisoned, for each offense.
(Ord. passed 4-21-1981)
CHAPTER 114: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
114.01   License fee imposed
§ 114.01 LICENSE FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for
the privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the
unincorporated area of the county from July 1, 2019, and thereafter on a
calendar-year basis.
   (B)   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company issuing life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the unincorporated
area of the county shall be 9% of the first year’s premiums actually collected
within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
   (C)   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company issuing any
insurance policy that is not a life insurance policy or health insurance policy
shall be 9% of the premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by
reason of the issuance of such policies on risks located within the
unincorporated area of the county on those classes of business it is authorized
to transact, less all premiums returned to policyholders. However, any license
fee or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received
for insuring employers against liability for personal injuries to their
employees, or death caused hereby under the provisions of the worker’s
compensation act, and shall not include premiums received on policies of group
health insurance provided for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2), and all
other health insurance premiums.
   (D)   All license fees imposed by this division shall be due no later than
30 days after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
   (E)   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this
division shall annually, by March 30, furnish the county with a written
breakdown of all collections in the preceding calendar year for the following
categories of insurance:
      (1)   Casualty;
      (2)   Automobile;
      (3)   Inland marine;
      (4)   Fire and allied perils;
      (5)   Life.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Prohibiting nudity in public places or businesses
   
130.02   Prohibiting the possession or sale of AM, CP, JWH and HU Cannabinoids
Curfew for Minors
   
130.15   Definitions
   
130.16   Hours of curfew
   
130.17   Liability of parent or guardian
   
130.18   Exceptions
   
130.19   Enforcement
Social Hosts
   
130.30   Definitions
   
130.31   Prohibition
   
130.32   Protected activities
   
130.33   Prima facie activities
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 PROHIBITING NUDITY IN PUBLIC PLACES OR BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANUS. The posterior opening of the alimentary canal.
      AREOLA. The colored ring around the nipple.
      BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. Any location at which business or employment is
carried on for profit.
      PUBIC. Designating the region of the pubis.
      PUBLIC PLACE. The same meaning as PUBLIC PLACE defined in KRS 525.010.
      VULVA. The external parts of the female sexual organs.
   (B)   Prohibition.  
      (1)   No person shall appear in public place or business establishment in
such a manner or attire as to expose to view any portion of the pubic area,
anus, vulva or genitals, or any simulation thereof, and no female shall appear
in such manner or attire as to expose to view the portion of the breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or simulation
thereof.
      (2)   This prohibition shall include the entire lower portion of the
human female breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the
human female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit
or other wearing apparel, provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in
part.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 PROHIBITING THE POSSESSION OR SALE OF AM, CP, JWH AND HU CANNABINOIDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to stop the possession or sale
of AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids and HU cannabinoids.
These substances are harmful if consumed and present a significant public
health danger that can result in hospitalization or death.
   (B)   Definitions.
   AM CANNABINOIDS. Any synthetic cannabinoids created by Alexandros
Makriyannis or his research group including but not limited to AM-087; AM-251;
AM-281;AM-356;AM-374; AM-381; AM-404; AM-411; AM-630; AM-661; AM-S78; AM-679;
AM-694;AM-855;AM-881; AM-883; AM-905; AM-906; AM-919; AM-926; AM-938; AM-1116;
AM-1172;AM-1220; AM-1221; AM-1235; AM-1241; AM-1248; AM-2201; AM-2212; AM-
2.213; AM-2232.; AM-2233; AM-2102;AM-4030. The term shall not include synthetic
cannabinoids that require a prescription, are approved by the United States
Food and Drug Administration, and are dispensed in accordance with state and
federal law.
   CP CANNABINOIDS. CP-47,497; (C6)-CP-47,497; (C7)-CP-47,4S7;(C8)-CP-47,497;
(C9)-CP-47,497;CP-50,556-1;CP-55,244;CP-55,940;CP-945,598. The term shall not
include synthetic cannabinoids that require a prescription, are approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration, and are dispensed in accordance
with state and federal law.
   HU CANNABINOIDS. Any synthetic cannabinoids synthesized at the Hebrew
University including but not limited to HU-210; HU-211; HU-243; HU-303;HU-
320;HU-331; HU-336; HU-345. The term shall not include synthetic cannabinoids
that require a prescription, are approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration, and are dispensed in accordance with state and federal law;
   JWH CANNABINOIDS. Any synthetic cannabinoids created by John W. Huffman or
his or her research group including but not limited to JWH-0G7; JWH-015; JWH-
Q18; JWH-019; JWH-030; JWH-M7; JWH-O48; JWH-O51; JWH-057; JWH-073; JWH-081;
JWH-098; JWH-116; JWH-120; JWH-122; JWH-133; JWH-139; JWH-147; JWH-148; JWH-
149; JWH-161; JWH-164; JWH-166; JWH-167; JWH-171; JWH-175; JWH-176; JWH-181;
JWH-182; JWH-184; JWH-185; JWH-192; JWH-193; JWH-194; JWH-195; JWH-196; JWH-
197; JWH-198; JWH-199; JWH-200; JWH-203; JWH-205; JWH-210; JWH-213; JWH-229;
JWH-234; JWH-249; JWH-250; JWH-251; JWH-253; JWH-258; JWH-300; JWH-302; JWH-
307; JWH-336; JWH-350; JWH-359; JWH-387; JWH-398; JWH-424. The term shall not
include synthetic cannabinoids that require a prescription, are approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration, and are dispensed in accordance
with state and federal law;
   PERSON. Individual, corporation, government or governmental subdivision or
agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership or association, or any other
legal entity;
   POSSESSION. To have actual physical possession or otherwise to exercise
actual dominion or control over a tangible object;
   TRAFFIC. To manufacture, distribute, dispense, sell, transfer, or possess
with intent to manufacture, distribute, dispense, or sell a controlled
substance; and
   TRANSFER. To dispose of a controlled substance to another person without
consideration and not in furtherance of commercial distribution.
   (C)   Prohibition of possession or sale of AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids,
JWH cannabinoids or HU cannabinoids.
      (1)   Trafficking in AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids
or HU cannabinoids.
A person is guilty of trafficking in AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH
cannabinoids or HU cannabinoids when he or she knowingly and unlawfully
traffics in AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids or HU
cannabinoids.
      (2)   Possession of AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids or
HU cannabinoids
A person is guilty of possession of AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH
cannabinoids or HU cannabinoids when he or she knowingly and unlawfully
possesses AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids or HU
cannabinoids.
   (D)   Forfeiture.
      (1)   All substances, machinery, or devices used for the manufacture,
packaging, repackaging, or marking, and books, papers, and records, and ail
vehicles owned and used by the seller or distributor for the manufacture,
distribution, safe, or transfer of substances in violation of this section
shall be seized and forfeited to the City of Nicholasville. Substances
manufactured, held, or distributed in violation of this section shall be deemed
contraband.
      (2)   All AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids or HU
cannabinoids, which have been manufactured, distributed, dispensed, possessed,
being held, or acquired in violation of this section;
      (3)   All raw materials, products, and equipment of any kind which are
used, or intended for use, in manufacturing, compounding, processing,
delivering, importing, or exporting any controlled substance in violation of
this section;
      (4)   All property which is used, or intended for use, as a container for
property described in the above listed paragraphs.
      (5)   All conveyances, including aircraft, vehicles, or vessels, which
are used, or intended for use, to transport, or in any manner to facilitate the
transportation, for the purpose of sale or receipt of property described in the
above listed sections, but:
         (a)   No conveyance used by any person as a common carrier in the
transaction of business as a common carrier is subject to forfeiture under this
section unless it is proven beyond a reasonable doubt that the owner or other
person in charge of the conveyance is a consenting party or privy to a
violation of this section;
         (b)   No conveyance is subject to forfeiture under this section by
reason of any act or omission established by the owner thereof to have been
committed or omitted without his or her knowledge or consent;
         (c)   A forfeiture of a conveyance encumbered by a bona fide security
interest is subject to the interest of the secured party if he or she neither
had knowledge of nor consented to the act or omission.
      (6)   Everything of value furnished, or intended to be furnished, in
exchange for or possession of AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH
cannabinoids, or HU cannabinoids in violation of this section, all proceeds,
including real and personal property, traceable to the exchange, and all
moneys, negotiable instruments, and securities used, or intended to be used, to
facilitate any violation of this section; except that no property shall be
forfeited under this section, to the extent of the interest of an owner, by
reason of any act or omission established by him or her to have been committed
or omitted without his or her knowledge or consent. It shall be a rebuttable
presumption that all moneys, coin, and currency found in close proximity to AM
cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids, or HU cannabinoids, to AM
cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids or HU cannabinoids
manufacturing or distributing paraphernalia, or to records of the importation,
manufacture, or distribution of AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH
cannabinoids, or HU cannabinoids, are presumed to be forfeitable under this
paragraph. The burden of proof shall be upon claimants of personal property to
rebut this presumption by clear and convincing evidence. The burden of proof
shall be upon the law enforcement agency to prove by clear and convincing
evidence that real property is forfeitable under this paragraph
   (E)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating division (C)(1) shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not more than
$500, or imprisonment for not more than 12 months, or both, for each offense.
      (2)   Any person violating division (C)(2) shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not more than
$250, or imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both, for each offense.
      (3)   If current or future Kentucky law(s) (KRS and the like) prohibits
any substance(s) contained in this section, the Kentucky law(s) (KRS and the
like) shall be applied instead of this section for both prosecution and penalty
(Ord. passed 3-20-2012)
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 130.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLOW. Either to permit or neglect to prevent. It requires actual or
constructive knowledge on the part of the custodian, that is, the custodian
must actually know about the child violating this subchapter, or the
circumstances must be such that a reasonably prudent custodian should have
known the child was violating this subchapter.
   CUSTODIAN. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
      (1)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
      (2)   As a legal guardian;
      (3)   As a person who stands "in loco parentis;" or
      (4)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of court.
   MINOR.  Any person under the age of 18, or as may be otherwise phrased, any
person of the age of 17 or under unless emancipated by marriage or service with
the armed forces of the United States.
   REMAIN.  To stay behind, to tarry, or to stay unnecessarily upon or in any
public assembly, building, place, street, or highway.
§ 130.16 HOURS OF CURFEW.
   Except as set forth in §
130.18, it shall be unlawful for any minor to be or remain in or upon any
public assembly, building, place, street, or highway within the county at night
during the following periods:
   (A)   1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
   (B)   1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. Sunday;
   (C)   11:00 p.m. Sunday to 6:00 a.m. Monday;
   (D)   11:00 p.m. Monday to 6:00 a.m. Tuesday;
   (E)   11:00 p.m. Tuesday to 6:00 a.m. Wednesday;
   (F)   11:00 p.m. Wednesday to 6:00 a.m. Thursday; and
   (G)   11:00 p.m. Thursday to 6:00 a.m. Friday.
§ 130.17 LIABILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   It shall be unlawful for any custodian having legal custody of a minor to
allow such minor to be or remain in or upon a public assembly, building, place,
street, or highway in the county under circumstances not constituting an
exception as enumerated in §
130.18, during the time periods contained in §
130.16.
§ 130.18 EXCEPTIONS.
   In the following exceptional cases a minor in or upon any public assembly,
building, place, street, or highway in the county during the nocturnal hours
provided for in §
130.16 shall not be considered in violation of this subchapter:
   (A)   When the minor is accompanied by a custodian;
   (B)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a custodian of such minor;
   (C)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly, provided that written notice signed by the minor and
countersigned by a custodian is in the possession of such minor specifying
when, where, and in what manner said minor will be exercising such First
Amendment rights;
   (D)   In case of reasonable necessity but only after such minor's custodian
has communicated to the police department the facts establishing such
reasonable necessity;
   (E)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor who has not
communicated an objection to a police officer or the police department;
   (F)   When returning home, by a direct route from, and within one hour of
the termination of, a school activity, or any activity of a religious or other
voluntary association or work, provided that justification indicating the place
and time of termination of said event can be given to any investigating officer
of the police department;
   (G)   When authorized by regulation issued by the Judge Executive in cases
of reasonable necessity involving more minors than may reasonably be dealt with
on an individual basis. Such regulation should be issued sufficiently in
advance to permit publicity through news media and through other agencies such
as the schools. The regulation shall define the activity, the scope of the use
of the public assembly, building, place, street, or highway permitted, and the
period of time involved not to extend more than one hour beyond the time for
termination of the activity, and the reason for finding that such regulation is
reasonably necessary. The Judge Executive shall notify the police department of
said information;
   (H)   When engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of Kentucky
authorize a minor to perform;
   (I)   When the minor is, with custodian's consent, in a motor vehicle with a
lawfully authorized driver; and
   (J)   When the minor, who is a duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within the county for the purpose of passing through,
by direct route, from one location to another either within or out of the
county, including all minors that may also be within the vehicle.
§ 130.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A police officer, upon finding or being notified of any minor in or
upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway whose custodian
is believed to be in violation of this subchapter may stop and question such
minor and request such information as his or her name, age, and the name and
address of his or her custodian.
   (B)   If the police officer determines or has reasonable cause to believe
that a curfew violation has occurred, the police officer may obtain from the
minor the information necessary to issue a citation to the minor's custodian
and then either take the minor to the minor's home or direct the minor to
proceed immediately to the minor's home.
SOCIAL HOSTS
§ 130.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT. Any person 18 years of age or older.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOL BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid or
solid containing 0.5% percent or more alcohol by volume and which is fit for
beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other
substances.
   GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A person who, under court order, the guardian of the person of a
juvenile; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a juvenile has been placed by
the court.
   JUVENILE. Any person under 18 years of age.
   KNOWINGLY. When with respect to conduct or to a circumstance described by
this subchapter a person is aware that their conduct is of that nature or that
the circumstance exists.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT SERVICE. Includes the salaries and benefits of police
officers, sheriffs, or code enforcement personnel for the amount of time
actually spent in responding to or remaining at the party, gathering, or event
and the administrative costs attributable to the incident; the actual cost of
any medical treatment to injured police officers, sheriffs, or code enforcement
personnel; the cost of repairing any damaged equipment or property owned or
operated by the responding agency or government entity; and the cost arising
from the use of any equipment in responding to or remaining at the party,
gathering, or event.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, legal custodian,
or step-parent of another person.
   PERSON(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PARTY, GATHERING, OR EVENT. Includes but is
not limited to:
      (1)   The person(s) who owns rents, leases, or otherwise has control of
the premises where the party, gathering, or event occurs:
      (2)   The person(s) in charge of those premises; or
      (3)   The person(s) who organized the party, gathering, or event.
   RESIDENCE or PREMISES. To include but not limited to a motel or hotel room,
home, yard, apartment, condominium, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or
meeting room or other place of assembly, whether occupied on a temporary or
permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or specifically for social
functions and whether owned, lease, rented or used with or without
compensation.
   SOCIAL HOST PARTY, GATHERING, OR EVENT. A group of 3 or more persons
including underage drinkers who have assembled or are assembling for a party,
social occasion, or social activity.
   UNDERAGE DRINKER. Any person who has not yet attained the age at which the
consuming of alcoholic beverages is legal in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2011)
§ 130.31 PROHIBITION.
   No adult having control of any residence or premises shall allow a social
host party, gathering, or event to take place or continue at this residence or
premises if:
   (A)   At the party, gathering, or event any underage drinker obtains,
possesses, or consumes any alcoholic beverage.
   (B)   The adult knows that an underage drinker will or does possess any
alcoholic beverage at the party, gathering, or event in violation of KRS Ch.
244.
   (C)   The adult fails to take reasonable steps to prevent the possession of
the alcoholic beverage by such underage drinkers in violation of KRS Ch. 244.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.32 PROTECTED ACTIVITIES.
   This subchapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Legally protected religious activities; and
   (B)   Conduct involving the use of alcoholic beverages wherein the child’s
parent consents to or permits said use provided no other underage drinkers are
present without parental supervision.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2011)
§ 130.33 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   Whenever a person having control of the residence or premises is present at
the residence or premises at the time that an underage drinker(s) obtains,
possesses, or consumes any alcoholic beverage, it shall be prima facie evidence
that such adult had the knowledge or should have had the knowledge, that the
underage drinker(s) obtained, possessed, or consumed an alcoholic beverage at
the party.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2011)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any custodian allowing a minor to violate any provision of §§
130.15 through
130.19 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each violation or
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 6 months.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
130.01 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine
as provided by the Kentucky Revised Statutes for a Class B misdemeanor.
   (C)   The penalties for violation of §§
130.30 through
130.33 shall be as follows:
      (1)   For the first violation, a Class B misdemeanor constituting a fine
not exceeding $250, and/or up to 90 days in jail; in addition to response
recovery cost for law enforcement services including the cost of personnel and
equipment.
      (2)   For subsequent violation within 5 years, a fine of not more than
$500 and/or not more than 12 months in jail; in addition to response recovery
cost for law enforcement services including, the cost of personnel and
equipment.
      (3)   If the person responsible for the party, gathering or event is an
underage drinker or a juvenile, then the parents or guardians of that underage
drinker or juvenile may be jointly and severally liable for the law
enforcements services fee, if said party or gathering is held on the parents’
or guardians’ property and they knew or should have known that the party was
taking place, and other penalties specified in this section
(Ord. passed 2-4-1997; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2011)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
         
151.   UNFIT BUILDINGS
         
152.   STORMWATER: ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS
         
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
154.   ZONING REGULATIONS
         
155.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
         
156.   STORMWATER: POST-CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Kentucky Building Code; adopted
   
150.02   Electrical inspection fees
§ 150.01 KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE; ADOPTED.
   (A)   (1)   The Kentucky Building Code, as promulgated in 815 KAR 7:070
through 7:125 by the Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction, Commonwealth
of Kentucky, is hereby adopted in full as an ordinance of Jessamine County of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky, as if set out at length herein.
      (2)   A copy of the Kentucky Building Code, together with a copy of all
other regulations or NFPA pamphlets adopted or referred to thereunder, is on
file in the office of the Jessamine County Clerk, and the County Clerk shall at
all times keep a copy of the Building Code for reference.
   (B)   The Jessamine County-City of Wilmore Planning and Zoning Office shall
be designated as the local enforcement agency for the Kentucky Building Code.
   (C)   The application of the Kentucky Building Code is hereby extended to
all single-family dwellings to be constructed in the county.
   (D)   This section shall take effect on February 7, 2012.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 2-7-2012)
§ 150.02 ELECTRICAL INSPECTION FEES.
   Electrical inspection fees in the unincorporated areas of county shall be as
follows.
   (A)   Rough in, TOP and final: $70.
      (1)   Fees shall apply to single-family dwellings, mobile homes,
renovations, service change outs, barns, out buildings, garages, room
additions, swimming pools, and temporary construction service.
      (2)   Per requested trip, including turn downs, inspection fees are due
when the inspection is made (each trip).
   (B)   Duplex, multi-family dwellings.
      (1)   First unit rough-in: $70 per trip.
      (2)   Second unit and thereafter: $50 per unit, per trip.
      (3)   Per requested trip, including turn downs.
   (C)   Electrical work not exceeding $30,000: $400 flat rate.
   (D)   All other electrical work.
      (1)   $30,001 to $250,000: 1.25% of total contract.
      (2)   $250,001 and higher: 1% of total contract.
      (3)   The electrical contractor shall provide copies of all contracts
pertaining to electrical costs, and shall provide total costs of electrical
materials and labor provided by others to obtain the total inspection fee. The
inspection fee shall be calculated based on the total cost of the electrical
system, including all emergency power equipment, fire alarm systems, and all
data, communication, and alarm systems.
      (4)   Electrical permits will not be issued until the electrical
contractor complies with this requirement.
         (a)   A separate fee will be calculated for each contract.
         (b)   All fees for dwellings and other inspections listed above shall
be per 200 amps of service.
         (c)   On commercial and industrial inspections, one third of the
inspection fee shall be due when the permit is issued, one third of the
inspection fee shall be due before the power is turned on, the balance is due
30 days prior to final inspection.
         (d)   Certificates of compliance will not be issued until fees are
paid in full.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2019)
CHAPTER 151: UNFIT BUILDINGS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Authority
   
151.03   Investigation; complaint; notice and hearing
   
151.04   Issuance of order to repair, alter, remove or demolish
   
151.05   Repair, closing or demolition by county; lien for expense
   
151.06   Conditions that warrant finding
   
151.07   Eviction of occupants
   
151.08   Service of complaints and orders
   
151.09   Injunction to restrain enforcement of order
   
151.10   Power to investigate and obtain evidence; employees
   
151.11   Appropriations
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS.  The Board of Adjustments of the Jessamine County-City
of Wilmore Planning Commission.
   COUNTY AUTHORITY.  Any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of
any department or branch of the government of the county relating to health,
fire or building regulations, or to other activities concerning structures in
the county.
   COUNTY OFFICER. The officer or officers who are authorized by ordinances and
resolutions adopted hereunder to exercise the powers prescribed by those
ordinances and resolutions.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Fiscal Court of Jessamine County, Kentucky.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All others who have interests of record in a structure
or who may be in possession thereof.
   STRUCTURE.  Any building or part thereof used or occupied, or intended for
use or occupancy, for human habitation or commercial or industrial purposes,
and includes any outbuildings and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually
enjoyed therewith.
(Ord. 950-2, passed 1-18-2005)
§ 151.02 AUTHORITY.
   The Governing Body finds that there exist in the county structures which are
unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use due to dilapidation; defects
increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities; lack of
ventilation, light or sanitary facilities; or due to other conditions rendering
the structures unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous or detrimental to the health,
safety or morals, or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the
county; therefore the Governing Body may exercise its police powers to repair,
close or demolish the structures in the manner provided herein.
(Ord. 950-2, passed 1-18-2005)
§ 151.03 INVESTIGATION; COMPLAINT; NOTICE AND HEARING.
   (A)   The County Officer shall investigate all structures coming to his or
her attention which appear to be unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use;
provided, however, that unless the County Officer has personal knowledge of the
condition of any such structure, all other investigations shall be initiated in
1 of the following ways:
      (1)   By resolution adopted by a majority of the Governing Body that
specifies that a particular structure appears to be unfit for human habitation,
occupancy or use and referring the matter for further investigation to the
County Officer;
      (2)   By verified petition signed by at least 5 bona fide residents of
the county and filed with the County Officer alleging that a particular
structure appears to be unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use; or
      (3)   By memorandum filed with the County Officer by a county authority
other than the County Officer, alleging that a particular structure appears
unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use.
   (B)   Regardless of how the investigation is initiated, if the County
Officer's preliminary investigation determines that probable cause exists to
charge an owner with being in violation of this chapter, the County Officer
shall issue a complaint to the owner specifying the violation(s) and cause same
to be served upon the owner and other parties in interest of the structure(s).
The complaint shall also state that the owner and parties in interest may file
an answer to the complaint with the attorney for the Board of Adjustments
within 10 days of service of the complaint, and that a hearing will be held
before the Board of Adjustments at a date, time and place fixed therein, which
shall be at least 10 days but no more than 45 days after service of the
complaint. It shall also inform the owner and parties in interest that they may
appear in person at the hearing, give testimony themselves, and present any
other relevant evidence or testimony regarding the complaint made against them.
   (C)   Neither the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure nor the Kentucky Rules
of Evidence shall strictly apply to any such hearing.
   (D)   At hearing, the County Officer or his or her designee, the owner and
parties in interest or their attorney, shall be given reasonable opportunity to
present evidence and/or rebut evidence presented, examine witnesses and argue
the merits of their respective positions to the Board.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustments may make a uniform set of rules regarding the
length of or the conduct of all these hearings and may for good cause reset or
continue any particular hearing to a date, time and place to be determined by
it, not more than 30 days after the original date set in the complaint.
   (F)   The Board shall have subpoena powers to compel attendance of persons
at all proceedings conducted pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 950-2, passed 1-18-2005)
§ 151.04 ISSUANCE OF ORDER TO REPAIR, ALTER, REMOVE OR DEMOLISH.
   If, after the notice and hearing, the Board of Adjustments determines that
the structure under consideration is unfit for human habitation, occupancy or
use, it shall state in writing its findings of fact in support of this
determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order requiring the owner:
   (A)   To the intent and within the time specified in the order, to repair,
alter or improve the structure to render it fit for human habitation, occupancy
or use or, at the option of the owner, to vacate and close the structure; or
   (B)   To remove or demolish the structure if the repair, alteration or
improvement of the structure cannot be made or is not made within a reasonable
time after the receipt of the order.
(Ord. 950-2, passed 1-18-2005)
§ 151.05 REPAIR, CLOSING OR DEMOLITION BY COUNTY; LIEN FOR EXPENSE.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
or, at the option of the owner, to vacate and close the structure, the County
Officer may then cause the structure to be repaired, altered or improved, or to
be vacated and closed as previously ordered. The County Officer may also cause
to be posted on the main entrance of any structure so closed, a sign with the
following words:
      This building is unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use; the use or
occupancy of this building for human habitation, occupancy or use is prohibited
and unlawful.
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
structure, the County Officer may cause the structure to be removed or
demolished.
   (C)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition shall be a lien upon the real
property upon which cost was incurred and which may be recorded in the County
Clerk's office. If the structure is removed or demolished by the County
Officer, he or she shall sell the materials of the structure and shall credit
the proceeds of the sale against the cost of the removal or demolition, and any
balance remaining shall be disbursed by the County Officer to the persons found
to be entitled thereto and may be recorded in the County Clerk's office.
(Ord. 950-2, passed 1-18-2005)
§ 151.06 CONDITIONS THAT WARRANT FINDING.
   The Board of Adjustments may determine that a structure is unfit for human
habitation, occupancy or use if it finds that conditions exist in the structure
which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of the
occupants of the structure, the occupants of neighboring structures or other
residents of the county. These conditions may include the following (without
limiting the generality of the foregoing): defects increasing the hazards of
fire, accident or other calamities; lack of adequate ventilation, light or
sanitary facilities; dilapidation, disrepair, structural defects and
uncleanliness.
(Ord. 950-2, passed 1-18-2005)
§ 151.07 EVICTION OF OCCUPANTS.
   When the Board of Adjustments has determined as unfit for human habitation,
occupancy or use any structure, pursuant to the provisions hereunder, and has
ordered same to be vacated, the County Officer may, after 10 days' notice to
the occupant or occupants thereof, apply to the county district court and
obtain from the court an order of eviction against the occupant or occupants
should they refuse to quit possession thereof.
(Ord. 950-2, passed 1-18-2005)
§ 151.08 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by a County Officer or Board of Adjustments
shall be served upon persons either personally or by certified mail. However,
if the whereabouts of the person is unknown and the same cannot be ascertained
by the County Officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence, and the County
Officer shall make an affidavit to that effect, then the serving of the
complaint or order upon those persons may be made by publication pursuant to
KRS Chapter 424. A copy of the complaint or order shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place on premises affected by the complaint or order, and shall be
recorded in the office of the County Clerk.
(Ord. 950-2, passed 1-18-2005)
§ 151.09 INJUNCTION TO RESTRAIN ENFORCEMENT OF ORDER.
   Any person affected by an order issued by the Board of Adjustments may,
within 30 days after its entry, petition the circuit court for an injunction
restraining the County Officer from carrying out the provisions of the order
and staying any order of eviction thus obtained, and the court may issue a
temporary injunction restraining the County Officer pending the final
disposition of the cause. Hearings shall be had by the circuit court on the
petition within 20 days, or as soon thereafter as the circuit court determines.
In all these proceedings the record on appeal shall be limited to the one made
before the Board of Adjustments and may not be supplemented. The circuit court
shall determine whether or not the order was arbitrary or capricious and may
not conduct a de novo hearing. Should it determine the order is arbitrary or
capricious, the matter shall be remanded to the Board of Adjustments for
further action conforming to the circuit court's ruling. The remedies herein
provided shall be exclusive remedies, and no person affected by an order shall
be entitled to recover any damages for action taken pursuant to any such order,
or because of noncompliance by the person with the order.
(Ord. 950-2, passed 1-18-2005)
§ 151.10 POWER TO INVESTIGATE AND OBTAIN EVIDENCE; EMPLOYEES.
   The Governing Body hereby authorizes the County Officer to exercise such
powers as are necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes
and provisions hereunder, including the following powers in addition to others
herein granted:
   (A)   To investigate the structural conditions in the county in order to
determine which structures therein are unfit for human habitation, occupancy or
use;
   (B)   To administer oaths, affirmations, examine witnesses and evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examination, but
those entries shall be made in a manner to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession;
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of any officers, agents and employees as
he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of the ordinances; and
   (E)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under the
ordinances to those officers and agents that he or she designates.
(Ord. 950-2, passed 1-18-2005)
§ 151.11 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Governing Body may make appropriations from its revenues as it may deem
necessary for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 950-2, passed 1-18-2005)
CHAPTER 152: STORMWATER: ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Purpose; intent
   
152.02   Applicability
   
152.03   Responsibility for administration
   
152.04   Ultimate responsibility
   
152.05   Effective date
   
152.06   Definitions
Discharges
   
152.15   Discharge prohibitions
   
152.16   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
152.17   Monitoring of discharges
   
152.18   Requirement to prevent, control and reduce pollutants; best management
practices
   
152.19   Watercourse protection
Administration; Enforcement
   
152.30   Notification of spills
   
152.31   Enforcement
   
152.32   Appeal of notice of violation
   
152.33   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
152.34   Cost of abatement of violation
   
152.35   Injunctive relief
   
152.36   Compensatory action
   
152.37   Declaration as public nuisance
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Stormwater: Post-Construction Management, see
Ch. 156
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the county through the regulation of non-
stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent
practicable as required by federal and state law. This chapter establishes
methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 by stormwater
discharges by any user;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4; and
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004)
§ 152.02 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands outside the corporate limits
of the Cities of Wilmore and Nicholasville, unless explicitly exempted by an
authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004)
§ 152.03 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The County Fiscal Court shall administer, implement and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in writing by the County Judge/
Executive to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the
employ of the agency.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004)
§ 152.04 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution or unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004)
§ 152.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Effective date of this chapter is 30 days after adoption.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004)
§ 152.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Employees or designees of the director of the
municipal agency designated to enforce this chapter.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to
prevent or reduce the discharge pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures and practices to control site
runoff spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT.  The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of 1 acre or
more. These activities include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing,
grading, excavating and demolition. Farming activities are not included as
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.  Any material, including any substance, waste or
combination thereof which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, [missing text]
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs and other drainage structures.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from the
precipitation.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN.  A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004)
DISCHARGES
§ 152.15 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges.  No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses any
materials, including but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than stormwater. The commencement, conduct or continuance of
any illegal discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited except as
described as follows:
       (1)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering; diverted stream flows, rising
groundwater, groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
noncommercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than 1 PPM chlorine), fire-
fighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants;
      (2)   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement
agency as being necessary to protect public health and safety;
      (3)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the
test; and
      (4)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the federal Environmental
Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.16 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of the permit.
Proof of compliance with the permit may be required in a form acceptable to the
County Fiscal Court prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004)
§ 152.17 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The County Fiscal Court shall be permitted to enter and inspect
facilities subject to regulation under this chapter as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has
security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the authorized enforcement
agency.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the County Fiscal Court ready access
to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
examination and copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an
NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional
duties as defined by state and federal law.
      (3)   The County Fiscal Court shall have the right to set up on any
permitted facility any devices as are necessary in the opinion of the
authorized enforcement agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the
facility's stormwater discharge.
      (4)   The County Fiscal Court has the right to require the discharger to
install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and
monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to
measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their
accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the County Fiscal Court and shall
not be replaced. The costs of clearing the access shall be borne by the
operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delay in allowing County Fiscal Court access to a
permitted facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this
chapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to
discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense if
the person denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the
permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or
required by this chapter.
      (7)   If the County Fiscal Court has been refused access to any part of
the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and he or she is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter
or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety
and welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement agency may seek
issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004)
§ 152.18 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL AND REDUCE POLLUTANTS; BEST MANAGEMENT
PRACTICES.
   The County Fiscal Court will adopt requirements identifying best management
practices for any activity, operation or facility which may cause or contribute
to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system or waters
of the United States. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial
establishment shall provide, at his or her own expense, reasonable protection
from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the
municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these
structural and nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premises which is or may be the source of an illicit discharge, may
be required to implement, at that person's expense, additional structural and
nonstructural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the
municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions
of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with
industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with
the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater
pollution prevention plan (SWPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004)
§ 152.19 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or the
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris and other obstacles that would pollute,
contaminate or significantly retard the flow of water through the watercourse.
In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain existing privately owned
structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so that the structures will not
become a hazard to the use, function or physical integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004)
ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.30 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation, has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or water of the United
States, that person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment and cleanup of the release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials, the person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of nonhazardous materials, the person shall notify the authorized
enforcement agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next
business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written
notice addressed and mailed to the County Fiscal Court within 3 business days
of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a
commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of the
establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and
the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. The records shall be retained for
at least 3 years.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004)
§ 152.31 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of violation. Whenever the County Fiscal Court finds that a
person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this
chapter, the authorized enforcement agency may order compliance by written
notice of violation to the responsible person. This notice may require without
limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which the remediation or
restoration must be completed. The notice shall further advise that, should the
violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the work
will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004)
§ 152.32 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the authorized enforcement agency. The notice of appeal must be received within
15 days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before
the appropriate authority or his or her designee shall take place within 15
days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the
municipal authority or his or her designee shall be final.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004)
§ 152.33 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation or, in the event of an appeal, within l4 days
of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the
authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the authorized
enforcement agency shall enter upon the subject private property and are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency
or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.34 COST OF ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within 30 days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely
manner as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by the
expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a
special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property for the amount of the assessment.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the county by reason of the violation. The liability shall be
paid in not more than 12 equal payments. Interest at the rate of 5% per annum
shall be assessed on the balance beginning on the first day following
notification of the cost of abatement.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.35 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the authorized
enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.36 COMPENSATORY ACTION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the authorized enforcement agency may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup and the like.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004)
§ 152.37 DECLARATION AS PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance. It may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's
expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel the
cessation of the nuisance may be taken.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal prosecution. Any person who has violated or continues to
violate this chapter shall be liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest
extent of the law, and shall be subject to a criminal penalty of $______ per
violation per day and/or imprisonment for a period of time not to exceed ___
days. The authorized enforcement agency may recover all attorneys' fees, court
costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including
sampling and monitoring expenses.
   (B)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this chapter are not
exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state
or local law and it is within the discretion of the authorized enforcement
agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. passed 11-30-2004)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Enactment
   
153.002   Authority
   
153.003   Jurisdiction
   
153.004   Purpose and policy
   
153.005   Inconsistency with other provisions
   
153.006   Self-imposed restrictions
   
153.007   Amendments
   
153.008   Interpretations
   
153.009   Definitions
Submission and Approval of Plats
   
153.020   Procedures; application deadline
   
153.021   Pre-application meeting with Planning Commission
   
153.022   Application for approval of preliminary layout
   
153.023   Application for approval of final plat
   
153.024   Execution of improvements required
Documents; Contents and Format
   
153.035   General requirements; scope
   
153.036   Pre-application meeting documentation
   
153.037   Preliminary layout documentation
   
153.038   Preliminary layout; technical information
   
153.039   Highway access; buffer
   
153.040   Final plat documentation
   
153.041   Submission of as-built drawings
   
153.042   Minor plat
   
153.043   Division of land and retracement plats
   
153.044   Utility and road-widening easements
General Requirements; Minimum Design Standards
   
153.060   General guidelines
   
153.061   Location and site requirements
   
153.062   Streets
   
153.063   Lots
   
153.064   Blocks
   
153.065   Building lines
   
153.066   Easements
   
153.067   Reservation of acreage for community facilities
   
153.068   Cemeteries
Final Approval of Plat; Improvements Required
   
153.080   Scope
   
153.081   Monuments
   
153.082   Street construction
   
153.083   Utilities
   
153.084   Completion of improvements prior to approval of final plat
Variances and Enforcement
   
153.100   Conditions for modification
   
153.101   Enforcement
 
   
153.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Fee Schedule
   
Appendix B:   Diagrams
   
Appendix C:   Forms
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 ENACTMENT.
   In order that land in the County of Jessamine and City of Wilmore may be
subdivided in accordance with the policy set forth herein, these regulations
governing the subdivision of land are hereby adopted in accordance with the
following §
153.002, and shall be known and may be cited as the Subdivision Regulations,
Jessamine County-Wilmore, Kentucky, and shall be referred to hereafter as
"subdivision regulations" or "this chapter."
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 1.100)
§ 153.002 AUTHORITY.
   These subdivision regulations are adopted under the authority granted by KRS
Chapter 100. The Jessamine County-Wilmore Planning Commission, established
under KRS Chapter 100, has fulfilled the requirements set forth as a
prerequisite to the adoption of these regulations.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 1.200)
§ 153.003 JURISDICTION.
   By virtue of KRS Chapter 100, these regulations shall govern all
subdivisions of land within the corporate limits of the County of Jessamine and
the City of Wilmore, Kentucky. Any owner of land within these areas wishing to
subdivide land shall submit to the Jessamine County-City of Wilmore Planning
Commission a plat of the subdivision according to requirements in these
regulations.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 1.300)
§ 153.004 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   It is declared to be the policy of the Jessamine County-City of
Wilmore Planning Commission to consider land subdivision plats as part of a
plan for orderly, efficient and economical development of the County of
Jessamine and City of Wilmore to the benefit of public health, safety,
convenience and general welfare. The purpose of the standards and procedures
included is to provide a guide for the change that occurs when land acreage
becomes urban in character as a result of development for residential,
commercial or industrial purposes; to provide assurance that the purchasers of
lots are buying a commodity that is suitable for development and use; and to
provide assurance for proper provision of public services in an efficiently
safe and orderly manner conducive to the provision of minimum outlay of public
and private expenditures.
   (B)   This shall be interpreted to include the following objectives which
shall guide the Planning Commission in formulating its decisions:
      (1)   Land to be subdivided shall be of a character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health, or peril from fire,
flood or other menace;
      (2)   Proper provision shall be made for drainage, water supply, sewage
and other needed improvements and utilities;
      (3)   Proposed streets shall compose a convenient and efficient traffic
circulation system, properly related to the proposals of the comprehensive
plan;
      (4)   Streets shall be of a width, grade and location as to accommodate
prospective traffic, to afford adequate light and air and to facilitate fire
protection;
      (5)   Areas of suitable location, size and character for playground,
other recreational purposes, or public community services shall be shown on the
subdivisions plat, wherever appropriate;
      (6)   The U.S. Highway 27 Bypass around Nicholasville shall have access
provided to it only at the intersection of the bypass and an existing public
road. The development of any new street or road to provide access onto a bypass
is expressly prohibited. Any other access, except farm entrances as designated
by the Kentucky Department of Transportation, are expressly prohibited; and
      (7)   Any portion of U.S. Highway Number 27 (or U.S. Highway 27) situated
outside the boundaries of the U.S. Highway 27 Bypass around Nicholasville shall
have limited access as specified in §§
153.038 and
153.062 of these regulations.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 1.400)
§ 153.005 INCONSISTENCY WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   Should any of these regulations conflict or be inconsistent with any
provision of city, county or state law, the provision of the city, county or
state law shall apply. Wherever there is a discrepancy between minimum
standards set forth in these regulations and those contained in the city zoning
ordinance, Building Code or other official regulations, the highest standard
shall apply.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 1.500)
§ 153.006 SELF-IMPOSED RESTRICTIONS.
   The subdivision regulations shall not prohibit a subdivider, developer or
owner from placing covenants and restrictions on the use of his or her property
that impose higher but consistent standards than required by these regulations.
Restrictions may be indicated on the plat or may be recorded in the office of
the County Clerk. Nothing contained herein shall prevent the developer or owner
from placing restrictions on property owned by him or her at any time in the
future.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 1.700)
§ 153.007 AMENDMENTS.
   Before the adoption of any amendments to these regulations, a public hearing
shall be held in accordance with Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 8.200)
§ 153.008 INTERPRETATIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the enumerated specific terms and words shall
be used and interpreted as defined hereafter and in KRS Chapter 100, unless the
context otherwise requires.
   (A)   The use of the present tense shall be interpreted to include the
future.
   (B)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, corporation or any other entity of any kind
whatsoever as well as an individual.
   (C)   The word SHALL is mandatory requirement, the word MAY is permissive
requirement, and the word SHOULD is a preferred requirement.
   (D)   The word STRUCTURE is to include but is not limited solely to the word
BUILDING and structure, and includes any part thereof.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 7.100)
§ 153.009 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS. A point at which provisions are made for vehicular entrance or exit
from or to a lot or other street.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL.  Any department, employee, or advisory, elected or
appointed body which is authorized to administer any provision of the zoning
ordinance, subdivision regulations and, if delegated, any provisions of any
housing or building regulation. This includes but is not limited to inspection
of roads, water, sewer, storm sewer facilities, sidewalks and bridges.
   ALLEY. A minor way primarily for vehicular service access to the back or
sides of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
   ARTERY or ARTERIAL STREET. A major street which serves or is designed to be
used primarily for fast or heavy volumes of traffic.
   AS-BUILT PLANS.  Engineering plans of public facilities prepared after
construction by the developer, to show the exact location and dimension of the
facilities as same have actually been installed.
   BIKEWAY. A way or portion of a way intended and designated primarily for
bicycle traffic.
   BLOCK. A piece of land entirely surrounded by public streets, railroad
right-of-way lines, parks, streams and the like, or a combination thereof. The
length of a block shall be the greatest distance between right-of-way lines on
opposite sides of the block.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
person, animals or movable property of any kind.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued by the authorized officer allowing a person
or his or her agent to construct, alter or remove a building and the like, or
engage in similar activity which would alter the character of the lot in
question.
   BUILDING PRINCIPAL. A building, including any permanently covered space such
as porches and carports, and attached garages in which is conducted the
principal use of the lot on which it is situated. In a residential district,
any dwelling shall be deemed to be the PRINCIPAL BUILDING on its lot.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line in the interior of a property which is
parallel to and a specific distance from the front, side and rear of the
property lines. The front setback is to be measured from the dedicated right-
of-way or easement; it shall be measured from the centerline of the pavement at
a distance of the specified setback plus 25 feet.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate issued by an authorized officer
after building has taken place certifying that the building meets minimum
standards for human occupancy.
   CITY. Refers to the City of Wilmore.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. The use of agricultural and/or conservation lands
whereby 20% of the land may be developed into lots of 1 acre or more. The lots
should be grouped closely together and have a minimum road frontage of 100 feet
along the access road, which cannot be existing public road. Eighty percent of
the agricultural and/or conservation land involved remains agricultural or as
open space and is prohibited from future development. The residual farmland or
open space, which is not utilized for single-family dwelling units, may be
owned jointly or in common by the owners of the building lots, an association
of the owners of the subdivision, or a person or entity who does not
necessarily own a dwelling unit within the subdivision.
   COMMISSION. The Jessamine County-City of Wilmore Planning Commission.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A plan, or portion thereof, adopted by the Commission
and/or legislative bodies of Jessamine County and the City of Wilmore in
accordance with KRS 100.183 through 100.197 showing, among other details, the
general location and extent of present and proposed physical facilities,
including housing, commercial and industrial uses, major streets, parks,
schools and other community facilities. This plan also establishes the goals,
objectives and policies of the community.
   COUNTY. The County of Jessamine.
   CURB LINE.  The outside edge of the curb and gutter. In the absence of curb
and gutter, the CURB LINE is the outside edge of the bituminous or concrete
driving surface.
   DEVELOPER. Any individual, firm, association, organization, partnership,
trust, company, corporation, governmental agency or any other legal entity of
any kind whatsoever commencing  proceedings under these regulations to carry
out the development of land as defined herein for himself, herself or for
another.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a person for the use by others of any designated
part of his or her property for a specified purpose and time, as described in
the conveyance of the EASEMENT.
   FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT. The final map, drawing or chart upon which the
subdivider's plan or subdivision is presented to the Commission for approval
and which, if approved, will be submitted to the County Clerk for recording.
   FLOODPLAIN. The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal
Insurance Administration in its Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM), #2101250001
A-002A, dated August 1978, and any revisions thereto are adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of these regulations, or the areas of special flood
hazard identified by the Federal Insurance Administration through a scientific
and engineering report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study for Jessamine
County," dated August 1978, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps and
Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps and any revision thereto are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be part of these regulations.
   FLOODWAY.  The channel of a stream and those portions of the floodplain
adjoining the channel that are required to carry and discharge the floodwater
within designated heights and velocities; including but not limited to flood
flows associated with the regulatory flood. The FLOODWAY is intended to carry
the deep and fast-moving floodwater, and the 2 principal factors in its
determination are the selection of the flood discharge and the permitted
increase in flood heights.
   FRONTAGE STREET. A public street constructed parallel to an existing public
street. The purpose of a street of this type is to prevent direct access from a
heavily traveled road into individual lots. Individual lots would have access
from the FRONTAGE STREET, hereby eliminating multiple entrances and resulting
congestion.
   LOT or PARCEL. A portion of land in a subdivision or plat of land, separated
from other lots or portions of land by description as on a subdivision or
record of survey map or by metes and bounds; for the purpose of sale, lease or
separate use occupied or to be occupied by a building or integrated group of
buildings and uses customarily incident and accessory thereto, including at
least such open spaces as are arranged and designed to be used in connection
with the building, and as required in connection with the building, and as
required under these regulations, and having at least 1 principal frontage on a
right-of-way of a public street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of 2 or more streets. A lot
abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a CORNER LOT if
straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot lines to the
foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear
property lines of a lot.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot is that portion nearest to the street. For
the purpose of determining yard requirements for corner and through lots, all
sides of a lot adjacent to a street shall be considered FRONTAGE.
   LOT IMPROVEMENT. Any building, structure, place, work of art, public
facility or other improvement of the land on which it is situated constituting
a physical betterment of real property or any such betterment. Certain LOT
IMPROVEMENTS shall be properly bounded as provided in these regulations.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the County Clerk, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description which has also been recorded.
   LOT, THROUGH or DOUBLE FRONTAGE.  A lot of which the opposite ends abut on
streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between the 2 side property lines of a lot.
   MAJOR STREET PLAN. That portion of the comprehensive plan pertaining to
transportation and existing and proposed streets.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. The subdivision of land into 4 or more lots; or the
subdivision of land which requires the construction, improvement or widening of
streets; or the major construction of utility lines and other public services,
singularly or in combination with any of the above.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. See §
153.042 of these regulations.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land available to the public in which 2 or
more mobile home lots are occupied or intended for occupancy by mobile homes
and includes any service building, structure, enclosure or other facility used
as a part of the park.
   OFFICIAL MAP. Any map or plan adopted by the Jessamine County-City of
Wilmore Planning Commission pursuant to the provisions of KRS 100.297.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, organization, partnership, trust,
company, corporation, governmental agency or any other legal entity of any kind
whatsoever, whose name last appears on the tax rolls as owner of the land
proposed to be subdivided.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An area of land in which a variety of housing
types and/or related commercial and industrial facilities are accommodated in a
preplanned environment under more flexible standards, such as lot sizes and
setbacks, than those restrictions that would normally apply under these
regulations.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Jessamine County-City of Wilmore Planning
Commission.
   PLAT. The map of any division of property or survey of property indicating
location and boundaries.
   PRELIMINARY LAYOUT. Is synonymous with preliminary plat.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The drawings and supplementary material indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision to be submitted to the Commission for its
consideration.
   RESUBDIVISION. See definition for subdivision.
   RETRACEMENT PLAT. A map or layout of a parcel of property indicating
location and boundaries but without any division of the parcel.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Land generally used for streets, sidewalks, alleys, utility
and drainage easements or other public uses. RIGHT-OF-WAY also refers to the
distance between lot property lines which generally contains not only the
street pavement, but also sidewalks, green area, and underground and above-
ground utilities.
   SALE or LEASE. Any immediate or future transfer of ownership or any
possessory interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, devise,
intestate succession or transfer of any interest in a subdivision or part
thereof, whether by metes and bounds, deed, contract, plat, map, lease, devise,
intestate succession or written instrument.
   SIDEWALK. A way or portion of a way intended primarily for pedestrian
traffic.
   SIGHT DISTANCE. A straight line of unobstructed view measured between a
point 4 feet above the finished surface of a road, at the centerline of each
traffic lane, and a point at a given minimum specified distance away from the
first point, located 1 foot above the finished surface at the centerline of the
same traffic lane.
   SKETCH PLAT. A preliminary sketch indicating the subdivider's general
objectives and desires in regard to the future development of his or her land
presented to the Commission for its informal consideration.
   STANDARD CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.  A set of minimum standards used for
the construction of streets, curbs, and gutters, sidewalks, water and sewer
lines, bridges and stormwater drainage facilities.
   STREET.  A way for vehicular traffic, however designated and regardless of
size or ownership, but excluding private driveways serving only 1 parcel of
land.
   STREET CLASSIFICATION. See §
153.062 of these regulations.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, firm, organization, partnership, trust, company,
association, corporation, governmental agency or any other legal entity of any
kind whatsoever, commencing proceedings under these regulations to create a
subdivision of land as defined herein for himself, herself or for another.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into 2 or more tracts with any
1 tract containing less than 5 acres, except in a county containing a city of
the first, second or third class or in an urban county government where a
subdivision means the division of a parcel of land into 2 or more lots or
parcels for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, lease or
building development, or if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel
of land; provided that a division of land for agricultural use into lots or
parcels of 5 acres or more and not involving a new street shall not be deemed a
SUBDIVISION.  The term includes resubdivision and, when appropriate to the
context, shall relate to the process of subdivision and when appropriate to the
context, shall relate to the process of subdivision or to the land subdivided:
any division or redivision of land into parcels occurring within 12 months
following a division of the same land shall be deemed a subdivision within the
meaning of this section.
   UNIT. A portion of a subdivision selected for development as 1 of a series
of states.
   URBAN SERVICE AREA. That area designated by the Planning Commission in which
urban subdivision design standards are applicable. The Planning Commission may
change the urban service area as development within the county increases but
must follow the amendment procedure outlined in §
153.007.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The Jessamine County or City of Wilmore zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 7.200)
SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL OF PLATS
§ 153.020 PROCEDURES; APPLICATION DEADLINE.
   (A)   Whereas any subdivision or resubdivision of land within the area of
jurisdiction of these regulations is proposed, the subdividing owner or his or
her authorized agent shall apply for and secure approval of the proposed
subdivision before plat of the subdivision of land is recorded by the Jessamine
County Clerk; before any contract for the sale, transfer or erection of a
structure in the proposed subdivision is granted; and before any street or
other public ground which has been dedicated is accepted by the legislative
body. Approval of a proposed subdivision by the Planning Commission shall be
obtained in accordance with the procedure specified hereafter and consisting of
3 steps for all major subdivisions as these are defined in this subchapter:
pre-application meeting with the Planning Commission; application for approval
of a preliminary layout; and application for approval of a final subdivision
plat. In the case of minor subdivisions, as defined in §
153.042, the Planning Commission during its pre-application meeting may waive
the procedural requirements to receive an application for a preliminary layout
approval, without affecting any of the other requirements of this chapter.
Waiving of the procedural requirement shall not waive the fees specified to be
collected, but in that case shall accompany the application for approval of the
final subdivision plat.
   (B)   All applications shall be made in writing to the Planning Commission
to be received by the Administrative Officer by the day indicated on the
application deadline schedule posted in the office of the Administrative
Officer.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § Art. II)
§ 153.021 PRE-APPLICATION MEETING WITH PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Before filing an application and before preparing a preliminary layout
pursuant to §
153.022, the applicant or his or her authorized agent shall:
      (1)   Meet with either the Administrative Official or the Planning
Commission to review the Planning Commission's requirements and minimum design
standards as outlined in order to avoid unnecessary and costly revisions in the
layout and development of the subdivision. At this time, the Administrative
Official shall determine if the proposed subdivision is in the urban service
area;
      (2)   Discuss his or her intentions at the time;
      (3)   Submit a vicinity map, sketch plan and general information as to
the relationship of the proposed subdivision to existing community facilities
including parks, playgrounds, traffic arteries, public or other schools, any
other pertinent information as specified in §
153.036; and
      (4)   Present general information outlining his or her general plans for
the subdivision, which can be shown in conceptual form using sketches of
various alternatives.
   (B)   The Administrative Official, at his or her discretion, may require the
applicant to submit the pre-application, with any necessary details, to the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 2.100)
§ 153.022 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY LAYOUT.
   (A)   Application procedure. An application shall be filed for the approval
of a preliminary layout prior to filing an application for the approval of a
final subdivision plat. The application shall:
      (1)   Be made in writing to the Planning Commission to be received by the
Administrative Officer by the day indicated on the application deadline
schedule posted in the office of the Administrative Officer. Applications
received after the day indicated on the deadline schedule shall not be reviewed
at the next regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting.
      (2)   Fifteen copies of the preliminary layout for all the land which the
applicant proposes to subdivide shall be submitted when the application is
filed with the Administrative Officer. The preliminary layout shall show the
names and mailing addresses of owners of all property adjacent to the property
proposed for subdivision, and all supplementary material described in §§
153.035 and
153.037.
   If construction plans are to be reviewed for approval, 6 copies of the plans
must accompany the application and preliminary plat.
      (3)   Prior to consideration by the Planning Commission, the following
approvals shall be received for the preliminary layout:
         (a)   The Administrative Officer of the agency or utility company
supplying water services if a connection to a public water line is proposed,
with a certificate of water availability appearing on the preliminary layout;
         (b)   The Administrative Officer of the agency or utility company
supplying sewage disposal services if a connection to a public sewage system is
proposed, with a certificate of availability of sewage disposal services
appearing on the preliminary layout;
         (c)   The authorized officer of the County Highway Department for
preliminary street design (
Appendix C, Form IV(A)); and
         (d)   Have a "Not for Sale" certificate (
Appendix C, Form IV(H)).
      (4)   Comply in every respect with the requirements specified in §§
153.060 through
153.067 of this chapter.
      (5)   Be accompanied by payment in the amount calculated from the
schedule in
Appendix A.
      (6)   Shall submit a community services impact analysis as outlined in §
154.078 of the county zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 2.201)
   (B)   State Department of Highways may review preliminary layout. If the
State Department of Highways had filed with the Planning Commission a map of
the territory within 1 mile on either or both sides of any existing or proposed
highway, no preliminary layout shall be approved by the Planning Commission
until 1 copy of the preliminary layout has been referred to the designated
office of the Department of Highways for its review. If the Department of
Highways desires to make any recommendation on the plat, it shall communicate
that to the Planning Commission within 15 days from the receipt of the plat.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 2.202)
   (C)   Review of preliminary layout. The Administrative Officer of the
Planning Commission shall notify the subdivider by certified mail of the time
and place of the meeting not less than 5 days before the date fixed for the
meeting. Similar notice shall be mailed to the owners of the land immediately
adjoining the acreage proposed to be platted as shown on the proposed
subdivision, in order that they may be informed of the meeting. The applicant
or his or her authorized agent, preferably his or her engineer, shall be
prepared to attend the meeting of the Planning Commission to discuss the
preliminary layout and the Planning Commission's tentative conclusions. In
studying the preliminary layout, particular attention shall be given to:
      (1)   The relationship of the proposed streets to the topography of the
land;
      (2)   Preservation of existing vegetation;
      (3)   Stormwater runoff;
      (4)   Sewage disposal drainage;
      (5)   Proposed lot and block sizes, shape and layout; and
      (6)   Future use of adjoining lands as shown on the future land use map
and comprehensive plan.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 2.203)
   (D)   Applicant advised of Planning Commission action. Within 90 days of the
date of the application, the Planning Commission shall advise the applicant in
writing of approval; conditional approval subject to specific modifications
which shall be required in the preliminary layout or subject to the applicant's
provision of additional information; or disapproval. This notification shall
consist of providing the applicant a copy of the minutes of the meeting at
which the application was acted upon. Failure of the Planning Commission to act
upon this preliminary layout within 90 days shall be deemed approval of the
preliminary layout.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 2.204)
   (E)   Reservation on preliminary layout approval. Approval of the
preliminary layout shall not constitute acceptance of the final subdivision
plat and shall lapse unless final subdivision plat is submitted within 2 years
from the date of the approval. However, after 1 year has elapsed following
approval, the applicant and/or developer shall construct and develop the
property in accordance with the development standards in this chapter as
revised since the approval. This approval may be extended for an additional
period of time at the discretion of the Planning Commission. The final
subdivision plat may comprise only a portion of the preliminary layout plan and
an extension of time may be granted by the Planning Commission for the
submission of a final subdivision plat for the remainder of the preliminary
layout. Failure to submit an application for the final subdivision plat before
expiration date of the extension will render approval of the preliminary layout
null and void.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 2.205)
§ 153.023 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Approval of construction plans.  
      (1)   All final plats which contain lot or lots requiring installation of
improvements shall have 3 copies of construction plans submitted to the
Planning Commission for approval. Upon review and approval of the construction
plans per method and procedure adopted by the Planning Commission, 1 set marked
"Approved" shall be returned to applicant. The construction plans shall be
submitted and approved prior to approval of final subdivision plat.
      (2)   The applicant shall not proceed with construction of subject
improvement until the time that he or she is in receipt of approved
construction plans. Construction of subject improvements shall comply with
approved plans. Any deviation from approved plans of construction shall be
approved by Planning Commission.
      (3)   Based upon the Planning Commission's approval of plans, the
Planning Commission shall not be liable for any error or omission of design
and/or construction.
      (4)   All construction shall be inspected at the various phases of
construction, as set out below, by the Jessamine County-City of Wilmore
Planning Commission Enforcement Officer and the Jessamine County Road Engineer
or the City of Wilmore Official in charge of inspections.
      (5)   (a)   First inspection.  After grading is complete and the subbase
of the street and/or curb and gutter (if required) has been properly compacted
and before the base or curb and gutter is constructed. Compaction tests of the
subbase shall be performed at the expense of the applicant and/or developer.
         (b)   Second inspection. After the base is constructed in accordance
with §
153.082 and before the bituminous or concrete pavement has been constructed.
         (c)   Third inspection. After the pavement has been constructed.
         (d)   Fourth inspection. After sufficient vegetative cover has been
established in ditches and shoulders.
      (6)   If, prior to inspection, any phase of construction is obscured by a
subsequent phase of construction, the Enforcement Officer shall order the
applicant and/or developer to cease development. Tests to determine conformance
to the construction standards of this chapter shall be performed by a qualified
registered engineer at the expense of the applicant and/or developer. If the
tests are not satisfactory, the Enforcement Officer may require the removal of
any material necessary to correct the construction deficiency.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 2.301)
   (B)   Application procedure. Within 2 years after approval or conditional
approval of the preliminary layout is granted, the applicant shall file with
the Planning Commission an application for approval of a final subdivision
plat. The approval of the preliminary layout shall lapse if application for the
final subdivision plat is not filed within the 2-year period, unless time is
extended by the Planning Commission. The application shall:
      (1)   Be made in writing to the Planning Commission to be received by the
Administrative Officer by the day indicated on the application deadline
schedule posted in the office of the Administrative Officer. Applications
received after the day indicated on the deadline schedule shall not be received
at the next regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting;
      (2)   Fifteen copies of the final plat for all the land which the
applicant proposes to subdivide shall be submitted when the application is
filed with the Administrative Officer. The final plat shall show the names of
owners of all property adjacent to the property proposed for subdivision, and
all supplementary material described in §§
153.035 and
153.037. If construction plans are to be reviewed for approval, 6 copies of the
plans must accompany the application and final plat;
      (3)   Substantially comply in all respects with the preliminary layout as
approved, or modified as required if conditionally approved;
      (4)   Prior to consideration by the Planning Commission, the final
subdivision plat shall have received approvals by the following:
         (a)   The Administrative Officer of the agency or utility company
supplying water services if a connection to a public water line is proposed,
with certificate of water availability appearing on the subdivision plat;
         (b)   The Administrative Officer of the agency or utility company
supplying sewage disposal services if a connection to a public sewage system is
proposed, with a certificate of availability of sewage disposal services
appearing on the subdivision plat; and
         (c)   The developer must obtain a signed statement from a registered
engineer stating that the completed construction complies with the construction
plans.
      (5)   Comply in every respect with the requirements specified in §§
153.160 through
153.067;
      (6)   Comply with the improvement requirements of §§
153.080 through
153.084;
      (7)   Include the entirety of the approved preliminary plat, which shows
access from a street already improved, or if not improved, to be improved to
the standards of and according to this chapter; and
      (8)   Be accompanied by a certified check or money order as scheduled in
§
153.022.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 2.302)
   (C)   Action on proposed subdivision plat. After careful study and within 90
days from the date of the application for approval of the final subdivision
plat, the Planning Commission shall approve or disapprove the plat. Failure of
the Planning Commission to act upon this final subdivision plat application
within the 90 days shall be deemed approval of the subdivision plat. If the
application is disapproved, the grounds for disapproval shall be stated in the
records of the Planning Commission. The Administrative Officer shall send the
applicant the minutes of the Planning Commission meeting at which action was
taken. The Administrative Officer shall retain a copy of the approved final
subdivision plat so as to provide verification of the plat as approved by the
Jessamine County-City of Wilmore Planning Commission and as recorded in the
office of the Jessamine County Clerk.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 2.303)
   (D)   Signing of subdivision plat. Upon approval of the final subdivision
plat by the Planning Commission, the original plat shall show that approval
with a written endorsement signed by the authorized officer of the Planning
Commission. The signature by the authorized officer of the Planning Commission
shall not be rendered until the applicant has met all the conditions of the
action granting approval of the subdivision plat. In any case, the approval by
the Planning Commission shall not constitute acceptance by the public of the
dedication of any street, other public way or ground.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 2.304)
   (E)   Recording of approved subdivision plat. The signed subdivision plat
shall be returned to the subdivider. In turn he or she shall have it filed at
his or her expense, within 30 days from date of approval with the Jessamine
County Clerk's office as an official plat of record. One copy of the
subdivision plat, certified by the County Clerk's office, shall be returned to
the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 2.305)
   (F)   Plat void if revised after approval. No changes, erasures,
modifications or revisions shall be made on any subdivision plat after approval
has been given by the Planning Commission. In the event that any subdivision
plat, when recorded, contains any such changes, the plat shall be considered
null and void, and the Planning Commission shall institute proceedings to have
the subdivision plat stricken from the records of the County Clerk.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 2.306)
   (G)   Reservations on public acceptance of proposed streets and acreage for
community facilities. The approval by the Planning Commission of a subdivision
plat shall not be deemed to constitute or imply the acceptance by the City of
Wilmore or Jessamine County, depending on the location of the subdivision plat,
of any street, park, playground or some other open space shown on the plat as a
community facility. The Planning Commission may require the subdivision plat to
be endorsed with appropriate notes to this effect. The Planning Commission may
also require the filing of a written agreement between the applicant and the
City Council or County Fiscal Court, depending on the location of the
subdivision, covering future title and dedication.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 2.307)
§ 153.024 EXECUTION OF IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   No final plat shall be approved by the Planning Commission or accepted for
record by the County Clerk until the improvements listed are constructed and
approved by the appropriate officials having jurisdiction as per §§
153.080 through
153.084, unless requirements of division (A) of this section and §
153.084 have been met.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 2.400; Am. Ord. passed 7-10-2001)
   (A)   Improvements made under bond. Where a performance bond is posted, in
lieu of prior construction, the Planning Commission may set a reasonable time
for improvements to be properly constructed; however, this period shall be no
more than 18 months. At the end of the period, if it is proven that
extraordinary conditions exist which will require a longer period of time for
the installation of the required improvements, the Planning Commission may
grant an additional period of time up to 6 more months during which the
construction of the improvements shall be properly completed. No additional
time shall be granted after this extended period unless further extension is
proven by the developer, to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission. The
amount of the bond shall be in compliance with §
153.084.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 2.401; Am. Ord. passed 7-10-2001)
   (B)   Acceptance and dedication of streets.
      (1)   The legislative body having jurisdiction may release the
performance bond only with the recommendation of the Planning Commission. The
Planning Commission shall make such a recommendation after it has received a
report from the developer's licensed engineer and a representative of the
governmental body that all improvements have been properly installed, that the
final subdivision plat has been approved, that all requirements of these
subdivision regulations have been met.
      (2)   If it has been determined by the Planning Commission that prior to
completion, improvements necessary for the public health, safety and welfare of
the residents and/or occupants of the subdivision are not properly guaranteed
by the subdivider, the Planning Commission shall take action to secure the
performance bond to ensure the installation of these improvements. If this
action is taken, no new building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be
issued until all improvements are installed properly as determined by the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 2.402; Am. Ord. passed 7-10-2001)
DOCUMENTS; CONTENTS AND FORMAT
§ 153.035 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS; SCOPE.
   Any subdivider who proposes to develop a subdivision in the area of
jurisdiction of this chapter as described in §
153.003 shall submit plans and documentation with his or her application as
provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Art. III)
   (A)   General requirements. The following general requirements are
applicable to both the preliminary layout and subdivision plat submittals:
      (1)   They shall be clearly and legibly drawn or produced in black
waterproof medium on transparent linen tracing cloth, other approved stable
base permanent transparent material or blue line copies, at the specified
scale;
      (2)   Drawings, except those on U.S.G.S. maps, shall be submitted on
uniform size sheets, 24 inches by 36 inches or 18 inches by 24 inches. When
more than 1 sheet is required to show the subdivision plat, an index of the
same size shall be submitted;
      (3)   An identifying title block in the lower right-hand corner of the
subdivision plat shall contain the following 7 points of information:
         (a)   Indicate major, minor or consolidation plat;
         (b)   Name of subdivision, and if located in the incorporated area,
followed by the name Wilmore and by the county name; and
         (c)   Name and address of the record owners and source of title and
the subdivider.
      (4)   The plat shall also contain:
         (a)   Name, address and signature of the licensed engineer or land
surveyor responsible for the plat. Additionally, the seal or stamp of the
licensed engineer or land surveyor is required on the final plat;
         (b)   Acreage to 1/100 acre of land proposed for subdivision;
         (c)   The date;
         (d)   A graphic scale; and
         (e)   Approximate true north pointer.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.100)
§ 153.036 PRE-APPLICATION MEETING DOCUMENTATION.
   All parties concerned with a subdivision of land will benefit from a
discussion during the pre-application meeting, at which time the applicant
should present the following information:
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.200)
   (A)   Vicinity map. A vicinity map shall be prepared at a scale of 2,000
feet to the inch, indicating the relationship of the proposed subdivision to
existing facilities which serve it, such as roads, schools and parks. Such a
sketch may be shown on a U.S.G.S. map of the area.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.201)
   (B)   Sketch plan. On a topographic survey map of the area proposed for
subdivision, a simple plan in sketch form shall show the proposed general
layout of streets, blocks and other significant features.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.202)
   (C)   General information. Any additional information to explain and/or
supplement the vicinity map and sketchplan shall be submitted.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.203)
§ 153.037 PRELIMINARY LAYOUT DOCUMENTATION.
   The preliminary layout shall meet the design standards as set forth in §§
153.060 through
153.067 and shall satisfy the following requirements:
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.300)
   (A)   Scale.  The plat plan shall be prepared at a scale of 200 feet to the
inch or larger.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.301)
   (B)   Vicinity plan. The location of the proposed subdivision shall be shown
with respect to all streets and property within 1,000 feet of the applicant's
tract and identifying all his or her adjacent properties, including those not
included in this application, on a vicinity map at a scale of 1,200 feet to the
inch or larger and shall be placed in the upper right-hand corner of the plat
drawing.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.302)
   (C)   Certification. It shall carry blocks showing the following
certifications on the right-hand side or lower edge of the plat; certificate of
ownership and dedication, certificate of approval of roadway system, and
certificate of accuracy (engineer). Additionally, if connections are proposed
to public sewerage and water system, a certificate of availability of water
service (
Appendix C, Form IV(B)) and availability of sewerage service (
Appendix C, Form IV(C)).
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.303)
§ 153.038 PRELIMINARY LAYOUT; TECHNICAL INFORMATION.
   The preliminary layout submitted to the Planning Commission shall show or be
accompanied by the following information, in addition to the general
requirements of §
153.035, except where requirements have been waived.
   (A)   Names and addresses of all adjoining property owners of record and the
names of adjacent subdivision developments along with intersecting property
lines.
   (B)   A stamped (first-class mail) envelope for each name shown on the list
of adjoining property owners, along with a completed "Receipt for Certified
Mail" slip (Postal Service Form 3800), a completed "Return Receipt" card
(Postal Service Form 3811) and a check or cash equal to restricted delivery
postal charges for each envelope.
   (C)   (1)   For subdivisions which will result in the creation of 10 or more
residential units, 3 or more commercial units, or 1 or more industrial units,
the applicant shall submit to the Planning Commission, along with the
preliminary layout, at the time of application for approval of a preliminary
layout, an environmental impact analysis, unless waived by vote of the
Commission. Generally, the statement should describe:
         (a)   The condition of the air, water, soil and vegetation found
within the boundary of the area to be subdivided at the time of submission of
the plat;
         (b)   The manner in which the air, water, soil and vegetation will be
affected by the development as proposed in the preliminary layout; and
         (c)   Steps which could be taken at the time of development, including
alternative strategies, which would minimize the long-term environmental
impacts upon the property associated with the subdivision.
      (2)   The environmental impact analysis will be comprised of 3 parts,
each containing the following information. Unless otherwise requested by the
Planning Commission, the applicant will be expected to use only existing
information which may be available through federal, state, regional and/or
local environmental agencies or organizations.
         (a)   Part I, Environmental Quality Inventory.  
            1.   Water. Describe the quality of water at the time of
application for preliminary layout approval.
               a.   If a water body runs through the property, describe the
quality of the water, to include dissolved oxygen and types and levels of
contamination (organic and inorganic pollutants and sediments).
               b.   The source of the factors which affect the quality of the
water, i.e., on-site (runoff, point of discharge) or upstream (runoff, point of
discharge).
               c.   Provide the results of a chemical analysis and coliform
count performed on water samples taken from the upstream point at which the
water body enters the boundary of the property and the downstream point at
which the water body leaves the boundary of the property.
            2.   Air. Describe the quality of the air at the time of
application for preliminary layout approval.
               a.   On a general area map show the 4 closest locations at which
air samples have been analyzed by the state air quality monitoring agency and
the results of the analysis.
               b.   On the map in division 2.a. above, show the direction of
the prevailing wind.
               c.   On the map in division 2.a. above, show the location of
major industrial facilities within a 1-mile radius of the boundaries of the
property proposed for subdivision.
               d.   On the map in division 2.a. above, show the location of any
major highway within 1/4 mile of the information, describe the carbon dioxide
levels at the point along the highway closest to the property proposed for
subdivision.
            3.   Soil. Describe the quality of the soil at the time of
application for preliminary layout approval. Using information provided by the
U.S. Soil Conservation Service:
               a.   Identify the types of soil found within the boundary of the
property and show the location of these soils on a map of the property; and
               b.   Describe the development limitation as determined by the
U.S.D.A. Soil Conservation Service of each soil type, to include: depth to
rock; slope; permeability; shrink-swell; depth to high water table; erosion;
flood hazard; and soil drainage.
            4.   Vegetation. Describe the types and locations of major
vegetation found within the boundary of the property proposed for subdivision,
with particular attention to the type and size of trees located in the general
area, within the property, of any proposed streets or buildings. This
description should be accompanied by a map of the property showing the location
of trees of more than 8 inches in diameter.
         (b)   Part II, Environmental Impact Statement. Describe briefly, using
the information contained in Part I, what environmental changes will occur due
to subdivision as proposed via the preliminary plan. The environmental impact
statement should address specifically the following questions:
            1.   How will the development of the subdivision, as proposed,
affect water quality, due to surface drainage and subsurface drainage?
            2.   How will the development of the subdivision as proposed,
affect air quality?
            3.   How will the development of the subdivision, as proposed,
affect the quality of the soil?
            4.   How will the development of the subdivision, as proposed,
affect the quality of the vegetation?
            5.   How will the development of the subdivision, as proposed,
affect the quality of the water, air, soil and vegetation on adjoining
properties?
         (c)   Part III, Alternative Development Strategies. Describe how the
anticipated environmental impacts could be minimized through use of development
and subdivision practices as alternatives to those required by rules and
regulations of the Planning Commission, i.e., zero lot lines, planned unit
development, water-less toilets and the like.
   (D)   Location, bearings and distances of tract boundary of the proposed
subdivision.
   (E)   Location, name, widths and other dimensions of existing streets,
together with their approximate grades, easements, property lines, buildings,
parks and public properties, on and adjacent to the proposed subdivision tract.
   (F)   Location of pertinent natural features that may influence the design
of the subdivision, such as watercourses, floodplains, swamps, rock outcrops,
soil types and vegetation including single trees 8 or more inches in diameter.
   (G)   Contours at an interval of not greater than 5 feet, or 2 feet if
deemed necessary by the Planning Commission. Contours within 250 feet of the
area to be subdivided shall be shown where possible. Contours of the same
elevation shall be extended to show their continuation if outside but within
500 feet of the property to be subdivided. Sinkholes, if any, shall be labeled
and their low point clearly marked.
   (H)   Location of existing sewers, water mains, culverts and storm drains,
if any, including pipe sizes, grades and direction of flow.
   (I)   Location, width and approximate grade of all proposed streets with
approximate elevation shown at the beginning and end of each street, at street
intersections, and at all points where there is a decided change in the slope
or direction.
   (J)   Approximate lot lines, dimension, number and area of all proposed or
existing lots, and suggested minimum building setback lines.
   (K)   Proposed provision of water supply, fire protection, sanitary waste
disposal, stormwater drainage, on and adjacent to the tract showing proposed
connections to existing utility poles and wires shall be required wherever
possible. Street trees, street light fixtures, street signs and sidewalks shall
also be shown when proposed.
   (L)   Existing and proposed easements and their locations, widths and
distances.
   (M)   Approximate sites and their acreages, if any, to be reserved or
dedicated for parks, playgrounds, schools or other public uses. Also sites, if
any, for semi-public, commercial or multi-family uses shall be shown.
   (N)   Protective covenants shall be placed directly on or attached to the
preliminary layout.
   (O)   Shall submit a community services impact analysis as outlined in §
154.078 of the zoning ordinance of the county.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.304)
§ 153.039 HIGHWAY ACCESS; BUFFER.
   (A)   Access to U.S. Highway 27. There shall be no direct access from
individual lots to U.S. Highway 27. Access shall be only available as follows:
      (1)   To any existing public street that intersects with U.S. Highway 27;
      (2)   To any new street that is a continuation of an existing public
street that has been constructed into the property being used or developed;
      (3)   To new streets intersecting with U.S. 27 which are at a distance of
at least 900 feet from any existing or proposed public street. Access to land
situated between new or existing public streets shall be by either a frontage
road paralleling U.S. Highway 27 or by direct entry to the land involved. A
direct entry or the entrance to a frontage road shall be located at a distance
of at least 300 feet from U.S. Highway 27. This setback requirement for
entrances can, at the discretion of the Planning Commission, be decreased if
the street from U.S. Highway 27 is constructed with 4 lanes (2 for ingress and
2 for egress). Any land with less than 900 feet of frontage on U.S. Highway 27
shall be limited to 1 access point; and
      (4)   The limited access provisions apply only to the new development
and/or subdivision of land or a change of use which would result in an increase
in traffic to the land involved. It does not apply to any continuation of the
present use of the land used for agricultural purposes.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.305)
   (B)   Setback and landscaping buffer. All new development and structures
fronting on U.S. Highways 27 and 68 in Jessamine County, and KY Highway 29
(from U.S. 68 to Banta Lane in Wilmore), shall be set back 200 feet from the
right-of-way of the respective highway. There shall be no structures allowed in
the setback area. There shall be no variance, waiver, exception, change or
alteration granted by the Planning Commission. A variance may be made by the
Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.306; Am. Ord. passed 11-12-2002; Am. Ord. passed 6-
8-2004)
§ 153.040 FINAL PLAT DOCUMENTATION.
   The final subdivision plat submitted to the Planning Commission shall meet
the design standards as set forth in §§
153.060 through
153.067 and shall show or be accompanied by the following information:
   (A)   Preliminary layout data. The same data required as in §§
153.035 through
153.038. Also, copies of all deeds and plats which apply to the subject
property shall be submitted along with the proposed final record plat for
purpose of review. Other reference material may be requested to finish the
review process (i.e., highway plans, adjoiner information, prior source deeds
and the like).
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.401; Am. Ord. passed 8- -1998)
   (B)   Scale. The plat shall be drawn at a scale of 100 feet to the inch or
larger, except that plats of large subdivisions may be drawn at a scale of 200
feet to the inch.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.402)
   (C)   Certification. On a final plat, blocks containing the following
certificates shall be placed on the right-hand side or lower edge of the plat.
      (1)   Certificate of Ownership and Dedication (
Appendix C, Form IV(D));
      (2)   Certificate of Accuracy (
Appendix C, Form IV(E));
      (3)   Additionally, if connections are proposed to public sewerage and
water systems, a Certificate of Availability of Water Service (
Appendix C, Form IV(B)), and Availability of Sewerage Service (
Appendix C, Form IV(C));
      (4)   Certificate of Approved Streets and Utilities as constructed or
proposed, in which case it shall show that bond, cash or letter of credit has
been posted (
Appendix C, Form IV(F)); and
      (5)   Certificate of Approval for Recording (
Appendix C, Form IV(G)).
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.403)
   (D)   Survey data. All necessary descriptions and dimensions, including
angles, bearings, radii, arcs and central angles, corner and lot monuments and
similar data, to readily determine the location, bearing and length of all
streets, lots and boundary lines, and to reproduce this data on the ground
shall be clearly marked and described on the subdivision plat. The data will be
tied to primary control points which locations and descriptions shall be given
as they relate to the triangulation points as described in §
153.081. The above data must comply with the minimum standards of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky Board of Registration of Land Surveyors.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.404)
   (E)   Identification information. The following identifying information
shall also be shown:
      (1)   Name and right-of-way of each street, easement or other right-of-
way, proposed and existing;
      (2)   Lot number, lot acreage in 1/100 of an acre;
      (3)   Minimum building setback line;
      (4)   All sides of each lot shall have indicated bearings and distance
comparable to the accuracy of the survey;
      (5)   Names and locations of adjoining subdivisions and streets; names of
owners of adjoining unplatted properties; and intersecting property lines;
      (6)   The type of monument used at the corner of each lot shall be
identified by legend or note; and
      (7)   Site statistic information including zoning, number of lots,
minimum lot size, area in right-of-way, area in roads, net density and gross
density.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.405)
   (F)   Street design data.  
      (1)   All or any of the data pertaining to street design may be required
to be shown on the subdivision plat submitted to the Planning Commission for
final approval: location, width and name of each proposed street, and typical
cross-sections showing street pavement and, where required, curbs, gutters and
sidewalks.
      (2)   This information shall be required on construction plans:
         (a)   Lengths and deflection angles of all straight lines and radii,
lengths, central angles, chords and tangent distances of all curves for each
street proposed;
         (b)   Profiles drawn to a scale of not less than 100 feet to the inch
horizontally and 10 feet to the inch vertically, showing existing and proposed
elevations along the centerlines of all proposed streets, and the elevations of
existing streets for a distance of 100 feet either side of their intersection
with a proposed street; and
         (c)   Proposed elevations of all proposed streets shown on the plan at
the intersection of side lot lines with right-of-way lines, or at least every
150 feet, at 5 points on a line at right angles to the centerline of the
street; and these elevation points being indicated at the centerline of the
street, each property line, and points 30 feet inside each property line, or at
the building line.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.406)
   (G)   Utilities data. This information shall be required on construction
plans: location, size and invert elevations of existing and proposed stormwater
drains and sanitary sewers with the exact location of utilities and fire
hydrants, where required, shall be shown.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.407)
   (H)   Elements of dedication. Accurate location of all property to be
offered for dedication for public use shall be marked, with the purpose
indicated thereon, and of all property to be reserved by deed covenant for the
common use of the property owners of the subdivision. Formal offers of
dedication of all streets to the city or county, depending on the location of
the proposed subdivision, shall be submitted to the appropriate legislative
body.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.408)
§ 153.041 SUBMISSION OF AS-BUILT DRAWINGS.
   After all improvements have been installed to the satisfaction of the
Planning Commission, the subdivider or developer shall submit to the Planning
Commission a reproducible copy and 5 copies of as-built improvement drawings
(showing how all improvements were actually installed). One copy of the as-
built drawings shall be retained by the Planning Commission. The Commission
shall transmit copies to applicable county departments and agencies.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.500)
§ 153.042 MINOR PLAT.
   (A)   Classification. At the pre-application meeting in accordance with §
153.021, the Commission will determine whether the proposed subdivision
constitutes a major or minor subdivision. In the case of a minor subdivision,
the lesser significance on the long-range development of the community is
considered justification for simplifying and expediting the processing of the
plats. All sections of this chapter shall be considered and those applicable to
a proposed minor plat shall be applied.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.600; Am. Ord. passed 8-10-1999)
   (B)   Minor plat requirements. To qualify for consideration as a minor
subdivision plat, a subdivision must meet the following situations:
      (1)   Where a subdivision contains 3 lots or fewer, counting the
remainder of the original tract; and fronts on an existing public street; and
involves no opening, widening or extension of a right-of-way streets or
easement of utilities; nor has it been part of a minor plat recorded during the
last 12 months;
      (2)   Where a subdivision provides for the transfer of land between
adjacent property owners and does not involve creation of any new lots or
building sites;
      (3)   Where any number of lots are consolidated into 3 lots or less and
involve no new public improvements; and
      (4)   Where there is a need to make technical revisions to a recorded
final plat of any engineering or drafting nature or similar small discrepancy,
but not including public improvements requirements.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.601)
   (C)   Minor plat processing. Upon the determination that a proposed
subdivision meets the requirements of division (B) of this section, the
following procedure may be followed by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   Waiver of preliminary plat. The Commission may waive the
preliminary plat procedure. In this case, the subdivider shall proceed directly
with the preparation of a final plat excluding references to preliminary plat.
      (2)   Planning Commission review. An application for review of the minor
plat shall be submitted to the Planning Commission to be received by the
Administrative Officer by the day indicated on the application deadline
schedule posted in the office of the Administrative Officer. Copies of all
deeds and plats which apply to the subject property shall be submitted along
with the proposed final record plat for purposes of review. Other reference
material may be requested to finish the review process (i.e., highway plans,
adjoiner information and prior source deeds, and the like). The Administrative
Officer or Chairperson may decide at this time to waive the required public
review on the minor plat upon the determination that all plat requirements are
met. The Chairperson of the Planning Commission may then sign the plat for
recording.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.602)
§ 153.043 DIVISION OF LAND AND RETRACEMENT PLATS.
   (A)   General requirements.  All divisions of land, agriculturally zoned or
otherwise, and regardless of the size and number of parcels generated, shall be
platted. All retracement plats and all plats of divisions of land shall be
submitted for approval by the Commission and shall, if approval is obtained, be
recorded in the County Clerk's office. Copies of all deeds and plats which
apply to the subject property shall be submitted along with the proposed final
record plat for purpose of review. Other reference material may be requested to
finish the review process (i.e., highway plans, adjoiner information and prior
source deeds, and the like).
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.700)
   (B)   Plat content. All plats shall be constructed and drafted pursuant to
Article 3.400 of the Minimum Standards of Practice of the Kentucky Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors. In addition, any
notes, certificates, details or other information requested by the Commission
and/or the Administrative Officer shall be placed on the plat prior to
presentation and/or approval.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.701)
   (C)   Plat processing. Applications for review and approval of all
retracement and division plats shall be filed with the Administrative Officer
with payment of fee of $50 for retracement and fees for divisions of land in
accordance with
Appendix A of these subdivision regulations. Upon determination of the
Administrative Officer that the plat meets the requirements of a retracement or
division plat, the following procedure for approval shall be followed:
      (1)   The Administrative Officer shall determine whether the plat meets
all requirements and shall determine if any additional notes, certificates or
other information is required to be placed upon the plat;
      (2)   Upon completion of division (C)(1) and division (A) above, the
Administrative Officer or Commission Chairperson shall deem the plat approved
and it shall be appropriate for the Commission Chairperson to inscribe his or
her signature thereon as evidence of approval; and
      (3)   After approval and signing of the plat by the Chairperson and
within 90 days, the plat shall be recorded in the office of the Clerk of
Jessamine County at the expense of the applicant. Failure to record within the
foregoing 90-day period shall result in nullification of the Commission's
approval for recording and voiding of the plat.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.702)
§ 153.044 UTILITY AND ROAD-WIDENING EASEMENTS.
   All plats filed with the Planning Commission for approval under §§
153.040,
153.042,
153.043 or any other applicable sections, which have frontage on a public road,
shall provide a separate 20-foot easement for utilities and a separate easement
for road widening in accordance with §
153.062 across the entire frontage of the parent tract.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 3.800)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS; MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.060 GENERAL GUIDELINES.
   The Planning Commission, in considering an application for the subdivision
of land, shall be guided by the policy consideration specified in §
153.004 of this chapter and the following general requirements and principles
of designing subdivisions. Two options for residential development in rural
Jessamine County exist: development of traditional lots of 5 acres or more, or
development of smaller, clustered lots with a provision for open space
preservation.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Art. IV)
§ 153.061 LOCATION AND SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   Land proposed for subdivision shall be of suitable characteristics. The
following are specific cases where the land shall be considered unsuitable, and
the Planning Commission acts accordingly.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.100)
   (A)   Land subject to flooding. Land subject to flooding shall not be
platted for residential use or any other use which may increase the danger to
health, life or property or aggravate erosion or flood hazards. Such land
within the subdivision shall be set aside on the plat for such uses as will not
be endangered by periodic or occasional inundation or will not result in
conditions contrary to the public welfare. To ensure that lots will be located
only where they will provide flood-free house sites, the Planning Commission
may require the subdivider to provide elevation and flood profiles sufficient
to demonstrate that the house sites will be completely free from the danger of
flooding. The flood elevations of houses shall be high enough to be well above
the floodplain as defined in §
153.009. Fill may not be used to raise the land in the floodplain areas except
where express permission has been granted by the Planning Commission. In other
areas subject to flood, fill may be used, provided the proposed fill does not
restrict the flow of water and unduly increase flood heights. No streets
subject to inundation or flooding, resulting in isolating any portion of the
subdivision, shall be approved by the Planning Commission. Fill, however, may
be used in areas subject to flooding in order to provide flood-free streets,
provided that fill does not increase flood heights.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.101)
   (B)   Land of unsuitable topography, soil and other. If the Planning
Commission finds that land proposed to be subdivided is unsuitable for
subdivision development due to bad drainage, poor percolation, steep slopes,
rock formations and other such conditions as may increase erosion or flood
hazards and, if from adequate investigations conducted by all the public
agencies concerned it has been determined that in the best interest of the
public, the Planning Commission shall not approve the land for subdivision
unless adequate methods are formulated by the subdivider for meeting the
problems that will be created by the subdivision and development of the land.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.102)
   (C)   Areas premature for development. The Planning Commission may refuse to
approve what it considers to be scattered or premature subdivision of land
which would involve danger or injury to the public health, safety, welfare or
prosperity by reason of lack of adequate water supply or sewage treatment
capacity, schools, fire or police protection, proper drainage, good roads and
adequate transportation facilities or other public services; or which would
necessitate an excessive expenditure of public funds for the supply of such
services such as undue maintenance costs for adequate roads.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.103)
   (D)   Preservation of existing community assets.  In all subdivisions, due
regard shall be given for historical elements or natural features which add
attractiveness and value to the subdivision and the community. Included in
these features are trees, vegetation, unusual rock formations, water courses
and sinkholes. The Planning Commission shall prepare a list of all the features
within its area of jurisdiction which it deems worthy of preservation.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.104)
   (E)   Conformity with adopted policies. A proposed subdivision shall conform
in general to the Jessamine County-City of Wilmore comprehensive plan.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.105)
   (F)   Screening. For cluster development, proposals containing 4 lots or
more require submission of a landscape and buffering plan which provides for
screening of dwelling units from public roads and adjacent properties. The
Planning Commission shall determine, on a case-by-case basis, the necessity of
requiring the screening.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.106)
§ 153.062 STREETS.
   (A)   Conformity with the comprehensive plan.  The width and locations of
all streets in a proposed subdivision shall conform with the street system as
included in the Jessamine County-City of Wilmore comprehensive plan.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.201)
   (B)   Relation to topography. Streets shall be related to topography in
their design in order to produce most usable building sites, whenever possible
at or above the grades of the streets; and to provide proper grades and curves
as required by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.202)
   (C)   Continuation of streets into adjacent property. Streets shall be
arranged to provide for the continuation of principal streets between adjacent
properties where the continuation is necessary for a convenient movement of
traffic, effective fire protection, efficient provision of utilities, and
particularly where such continuation is in accordance with the comprehensive
plan. If the adjacent property is undeveloped and the street must be a dead-end
street temporarily, the right-of-way and improvements shall be extended to the
property line. A temporary circular turnaround of a minimum outside pavement
radius of 50 feet or, as an alternative, a paved T-shaped ending with a cross-
drive 20 feet wide by 50 feet long for a local street, or 100 feet long for any
higher classification street, and centered with the street's centerline, shall
be provided on all temporary dead-end streets, with the notation on the plat
that any land used for the above purpose outside the street right-of-way shall
revert to abutters whenever the street is continued. The street system for the
proposed subdivision shall provide for extending existing streets at the same
or greater width, but in no case shall a street extension be of a lesser width
than the minimum width required in these regulations for streets in its
category.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.203)
   (D)   Rights-of-way and minimum design standards.  
      (1)   Rights-of-way to be dedicated for new streets measured from the lot
line to the opposite lot line shall be in conformity with the comprehensive
plan and its major thoroughfare plan and, where not specified, shall meet the
following standards which, in addition to the right-of-way width, include
requirements for minimum horizontal and vertical curves, maximum and minimum
grades, and minimum sight distances. The width specified for the pavement shall
be the distance measured from a curb line to the opposite curb line.
      (2)   The following street design standards shall apply in Jessamine
County and the City of Wilmore:
                   Street Classification
Object of Standard Arterial Collector/ Secondary Local/Minor Frontage Road/
                                                             Marginal Access
                    Street Classification
Object of Standard  Arterial Collector/ Local/Minor          Frontage Road/
                             Secondary                       Marginal Access
Minimum width of
right-of-way (urban 80 ft.   60 ft.     50 ft.               50 ft.
and rural)
Minimum width of
pavement
   (urban)       44 ft.   42 ft.     32 ft.               32 ft.
   (rural)*      24 ft.   22 ft.     22 ft.               22 ft.
All commercial and
industrial zones    24 ft.   24 ft.     24 ft.               24 ft.
(rural)**
Minimum radius of   400 ft.  300 ft.    100 ft. except for   100 ft.
horizontal curves                       intersection corners
Shoulder width      8 ft.    6 ft.      4 ft.                2 ft.
 
                   Street Classification
Object of Standard Arterial Collector/ Secondary Local/Minor Frontage Road/
                                                             Marginal Access
Object of       Street Classification
Standard        Arterial        Collector/      Local/Minor     Frontage Road/
                                Secondary                       Marginal Access
Minimum length
of vertical
curves as
measured from
centerline of
right-of-way
                                                100 ft. but not
                200 ft. but not 200 ft. but not less than 25
                less than 50    less than 50    ft. for great
   (urban)   ft. for each 1% ft. for each 1% curve and 35    100 ft.
                algebraic       algebraic       ft. for each 1%
                difference of   difference of   algebraic
                grade           grade           difference of
                                                grade
   (rural)   same            same            80 ft.          80 ft.
Minimum length
of tangents
between reverse
curves
                                                100 ft. except
                                                where 100 ft.
                                                excessive
                                                grades may be
   (urban)   300 ft.         200 ft.         reduced to      100 ft.
                                                reasonable
                                                grades by
                                                shortening
                                                tangent
   (rural)   same            same            same            50 ft.
Minimum
allowable grade
   (urban)   5%              7%              10%             10%
   (rural)   5%              7%              12%             12%
Minimum grade   0.5%            0.5%            0.5%            0.5%
for drainage
NOTES:
* See
Appendix B, Figure 2 for Typical Road Section
** See
Appendix B, Figure 3 for Typical Road Section
 
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.204; Am. Ord. passed 4-12-2005)
   (E)   Permanent dead-end streets. Where a street is designed so as to have 1
end permanently closed, it shall not be longer than 500 feet for greater
traffic convenience and effective police and fire protection, and shall have as
its closed end a circular turnaround with a maximum right-of-way radius of 60
feet and with a minimum outside pavement radius of 50 feet. Such a dead-end
street shall not come closer than 100 feet from the boundary of a subdivision
if its continuation is not needed for access to adjoining property. The
Planning Commission may require the reservation of a 20-foot wide easement
between the end of the proposed dead-end street and an adjacent piece of
property to accommodate pedestrian traffic or utilities. Waiver of length may
be granted where geographical or physical features make the limit not feasible.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.205)
   (F)   Existing streets, realignment and widening.  
      (1)   Where a subdivision is proposed along an existing street or road,
the subdivider will widen and construct the road according to the diagram
attached as
Appendix B, Figure 1. The total road width shall be as required by the
applicable street design standard set forth in division (D) of this section,
but in no case shall the road be less than 22 feet in total width.
      (2)   The only exception to the foregoing road widening requirement shall
be the initial division of the original parcel of land, as the configuration of
the parcel exists on June 25, 1986, into 3 tracts or less, in which event the
landowner will not have to widen the existing road on which the tracts front.
However, any subsequent division creating 4 tracts or more from the original
parcel, regardless of which landowner makes the division, shall cause the
landowner to comply with the foregoing widening provisions and any other
applicable section of this chapter, and shall cause the landowner to widen the
road in front of the first 3 tracts initially divided. The intent of this
provision is that it shall apply to the division of parcels, as the
configuration of the parcels exist on June 24, 1986, notwithstanding any
changes in ownership of these parcels.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.206; Am. Ord. 4-12-2005)
   (G)   Increased right-of-way.  If extraordinary physical conditions render
it necessary to promote increased traffic flow, the Planning Commission may
require the right-of-way be increased 10 feet, for the side of the street where
the subdivision is proposed.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.207)
   (H)   Hazardous or conflicting conditions.  When a proposed subdivision
contains or is adjacent to an existing or proposed arterial street, rights-of-
way, railroad rights-of-way, or conflicting detrimental or hazardous land uses,
the Planning Commission may require marginal access streets, reverse frontage
lots, lots with rear service alleys, lots with additional depth, or other
measures which may be necessary for protection of abutting properties and the
maintenance or function of major traffic arteries.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.208)
   (I)   Private streets and reserve strips. There shall be no private and/or
gated streets or roads allowed in Jessamine County or the City of Wilmore.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.209; Am. Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
   (J)   Street intersections.
      (1)   Street intersections shall not involve more than 4 street
approaches; merging lanes and acceleration lanes are considered parts of 1
street approach. Within 40 feet measured for each street from the closest
intersection of right-of-way lines, such streets shall have the angle be less
than 75 degrees. No cross-intersections of centerlines of other than minor or
marginal access streets shall be closer than 800 feet apart, unless the
Planning Commission deems it unrealistic under extraordinary circumstances.
Offset intersection centerlines shall not be closer than 150 feet. Except in a
city central business district, and unless extraordinary physical conditions
necessitate a retaining wall to be approved by the Planning Commission, within
the triangular area (sight distance triangle), formed at corners by the street
curbs or edge of pavement: for a distance as determined in division (J)(2)
below on each from their point intersection; and the diagonal connecting the
end points of these lines, visibility for traffic safety shall be provided and
by excavating if necessary. Nothing in the way of fences, walls, hedges or
other landscaping shall be permitted to obstruct the visibility for a height of
10 feet above the ground/finish grade. Grades at street intersections shall be
limited to 2% for a distance of 75 feet from the intersection of the
centerlines. All street intersection corners shall be rounded by curves of
radii of at least 25 feet.
      (2)   The sight distance length for intersecting streets shall be
determined as follows: as measured at a point 15 feet back from the
intersecting corner diagonally to a point determined by speed limit, then
following the road edge of pavement back to the intersecting corner, forming
the sight distance triangle. The following distances of the triangle shall be
used to determine the sight triangle for vehicular traffic for all legs of the
intersection (see following table and diagram):
 
(X) Sight Distance* Speed Limit
484 ft.             55 mph
396 ft.             45 mph
308 ft.             35 mph
220 ft.             25 mph
132 ft.             15 mph
*Distance being feet traveled in 6 seconds by vehicle at speed limit.
 
      (3)   No ground-mounted identification sign shall be placed within the
sight distance triangle of a street intersection or the intersection of the
entrance/exit to a business and the public street. If a pole sign is proposed
within this sight distance triangle, the minimum distance from the ground to
the bottom of the sign shall be 10 feet, or greater if the topography of the
intersection warrants, in which case the Planning Commission may increase the
height in order to address the circumstances presented.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.210; Am. Ord. passed 5-8-2001)
   (K)   Street names. Subdivision streets shall be identified by proposed
names. In case of proposed streets which are clearly aligned with existing
streets, these new streets shall bear the name of the existing street. In no
other case shall the names of the proposed streets duplicate or be phonetically
similar to an existing street name irrespective of the use of a different
suffix, such as street, avenue, boulevard, driveway, place, court or other.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.211)
   (L)   Maintenance of landscape islands and other structures within right-of-
way. Landscape islands, gatehouses, entrance walls and other structures
proposed to be constructed within the right-of-way of any street to be accepted
by a legislative body shall contain a note on the preliminary and final
subdivision plat and/or development plan identifying the entity that will be
responsible for all upkeep and maintenance in perpetuity. The City of Wilmore
or the Jessamine County Fiscal Court will not be responsible for the upkeep or
maintenance of those structures. If there is not an identified entity noted,
the plat or plan shall not be approved with those features. Jessamine County or
the City of Wilmore reserves the right to remove these items in the event of
unreasonable upkeep and maintenance at the cost of the maintenance entity.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2005, § 4.212)
§ 153.063 LOTS.
   (A)   Arrangement in relation to street. The arrangement of lots shall be
such that there will be no foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography
or other conditions. All lots shall front on a public street or approved
private street and, without invalidating any of the provisions of the zoning
ordinance, the frontage will extend a minimum of 50 feet except for lots which
front on turnarounds for permanent dead-end streets or on curves of a minimum
radius of 100 feet, which shall be allowed a minimum of 40 feet. In no case,
however, shall the width of the lot at the building line be less than that
required by the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2005, § 4.301)
   (B)   Lot dimensions and area. Lot dimensions and area shall conform to the
applicable requirements of the zoning ordinance and this chapter. But no lot
shall have a depth in excess of 4 times its width at the building line except
for subdivisions of land Zone A-1 into lots of 5 acres or more and cluster
developments. Five-acre tracts shall not have a depth in excess of 7.12 times
the width of the parcel at the building setback line, and cluster developments
shall not have a depth in excess of 4.5 times the width of the lot at the
building line. Twenty percent of the present tract, not to include road
acreage, can be developed. The residual 80% of the parent tract shall be
designated as agricultural or open space land, which is prohibited from future
development.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2005, § 4.302)
   (C)   Side and rear lot lines. Side lot lines shall be at right angles to
straight street centerlines, and radial to curved street centerlines. Rear lot
lines shall consist of straight lines with a minimum number of deflections.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2005, § 4.303)
   (D)   Access to lots.  Lots shall have their primary access only from an
approved street in accordance with these regulations and specifically division
(B) of this section and §§
153.080 through
153.084. No cluster unit shall be accessed from an existing public road.
Instead, there shall be at least a 400-foot setback from the existing public
road (and not the proposed street) to any unit within the development, or a
200-foot setback with appropriate landscaping and buffering. All points of
access from an arterial street shall be approved by the Planning Commission,
which may require that several such lots be served by a combined marginal
access street in order to limit possible traffic hazards on that street. In no
case shall access to a lot be closer than 125 feet from an intersection with an
arterial street. If access to a lot is from a collector or a marginal access
street, a distance of no less than 75 feet from any intersection shall be free
from that access. If access to a lot is from a minor street, a distance of not
less than 50 feet shall be free from that access. In all cases, if a lot abuts
an intersection of 2 classes of streets, access shall be from the lower class
of street. Alleys shall not be deemed as streets to provide primary access for
any use. Where a watercourse separates the buildable area of a lot from the
access street, provision shall be made for the installation of a culvert or
other structure of a design approved by the designated engineer or authorized
person.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.304)
§ 153.064 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block lengths. For greater traffic convenience and police and fire
protection, block lengths shall not exceed 1,000 feet, or 15 times the minimum
lot width, whichever is greater; except when the Planning Commission deems it
impractical or necessary to allow otherwise to secure efficient use of land
under extraordinary physical conditions, in which case the Planning Commission
may require the reservation through the block of a 10-foot wide easement to
accommodate utilities, pedestrian traffic or safety measures.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.401)
   (B)   Block width. Generally, blocks shall be at least twice the minimum lot
depth allowing 2 tiers of lots. However, where extraordinary physical
conditions exist, or where lots might otherwise front on an arterial street,
the Planning Commission may approve a single tier of lots of minimum depths.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.402)
§ 153.065 BUILDING LINES.
   (A)   Building setback lines. The building setback line shall comply with
the requirements of the zoning ordinance. Except in a central business district
zone and where no zoning specified a building setback line, the line shall
follow the established setback line of established adjoining properties, or
their average if they vary; otherwise, it shall be no less than 20 feet from
any street right-of-way line. While buildings shall generally build on the
established building setback line, with the approval of the Planning Commission
recorded on the final plat, buildings in residential areas may be set back
farther, provided that the privacy of homes and yards involved is maintained.
In an agricultural cluster development, the following minimum building setbacks
shall apply:
      (1)   Front yard: 50 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard: 25 feet; and
      (3)   Side yard: 20 feet.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.501)
   (B)   Yard building setback requirements. Yard requirements for residential
subdivision or portions thereof shall be in accordance with the requirements of
the zoning ordinance. When no zoning specifies such yards, the yards in
residential areas shall be no less than 10 feet for side yards, 25 feet for
rear yards, and the front yard setback shall be no less than 25 feet.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.502)
§ 153.066 EASEMENTS.
   Easements on adjoining properties shall connect as deemed necessary.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.600)
   (A)   Utility easements. Where topography or other conditions are such as to
make impractical the inclusion of utilities or drainage facilities within the
street right-of-way, perpetual unobstructed utility and drainage easements at
least 20 feet in width for poles, wires, conduits, storm sewers, sanitary
sewers, gas mains, water mains or other utilities shall be provided across
property outside the street right-of-way lines and with satisfactory access to
the street. The Planning Commission may require an easement to be centered
along all rear lot lines; as well as along side lot lines where it is deemed
necessary by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.601)
   (B)   Floodway and drainage easement.  
      (1)   If a stream flows through or is adjacent to the proposed
subdivision, the plat plan shall provide for an easement for a floodway at
least 75 feet measured on each side from the thread of the watercourse or to
the limits of the floodplain, whichever is greater. The floodway easement shall
provide for future improvements of the stream channel as adjacent areas become
more developed and runoff rates increase.
      (2)   After approval of the final plat by the Planning Commission, the
area of any drainage easement which is shown on the final plat shall not be
altered or used for any purpose that would impede the flow of water over the
easement.
      (3)   All final record plats, whether major subdivision, minor
subdivision, division of land or retracement plats, shall contain a plat note
that requires proper sizing, determined by the County Road Department
Supervisor or an engineer designated by him or her for installation of any
required entrance piping, so as not to impede or alter any existing or
generated water flow. In addition, all final record plats of major subdivisions
shall contain a typical entrance detail applicable to all lots.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.602; Am. Ord. passed 8-10-1999)
   (C)   Easements for pedestrian access.  The Planning Commission may require,
in order to facilitate pedestrian access from streets to schools, parks,
playgrounds or other nearby streets, a perpetual unobstructed easement of at
least 20 feet in width.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.603)
   (D)   Scenic easements.  The Planning Commission may require, as a
prerequisite to plat approval, for the applicant to provide scenic easements
which are shown on the plat. The easements shall be drawn in such a manner to
protect the character of the natural environment of the land to be subdivided
and may include trees, general vegetation, watercourses and bodies, sinkholes,
rock formations and topography.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.604)
§ 153.067 RESERVATION OF ACREAGE FOR COMMUNITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Within the City of Wilmore the subdivider of either a major or minor
subdivision shall provide for community facilities according to the standards
indicated in division (B) of this section. Land for community facilities
includes but is not limited to land for parks, open space, parking areas, fire
stations and other municipal buildings, according to the needs of the
community. Within the unincorporated portion of Jessamine County, the
subdivider shall consider providing for these community facilities. The
Planning Commission shall take into account during its review of the studies
and standards included, the adequacy of existing or proposed community
facilities which will serve the additional population to occupy the new housing
in a proposed subdivision.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.700)
   (B)   Community facilities dedication standards.  The Planning Commission
shall base its standards for dedication for community facilities on the
following formulae:
 
Type                        County                    City of Wilmore
Single-family residential   .009 acres/lot            .0115 acres/lot
Two-family residential      .005 acres/unit (2 units/ .007 acres/unit (2 units/
                            lot)                      lot)
Townhouses (attached)       .006 acres/unit           .006 acres/unit
Apartments and mobile homes .005 acres/unit           .005 acres/unit
 
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.701)
   (C)   Location and improvement standards. The following locational and
improvement standards shall be applicable to any site obtained under the
provisions of this subchapter:
      (1)   The land shall be of a size, shape, dimension, physical character
and location suitable for use as park, open space or other community facility.
Within the City of Wilmore, suitability shall be determined by the Wilmore City
Council and area required for purposes of water retention shall not be included
in the land required to satisfy these requirements;
      (2)   The site shall be located so that proper accessibility shall be
afforded by public streets to be constructed by the developer in conjunction
with the development of the subdivision;
      (3)   In general, land to be dedicated shall not be less than 3 acres in
size. Where the neighborhood park needs of an area require the acquisition of
land from other underdeveloped property in the area, the site shall be located
on the periphery of the property and in such a location that suitable
additional land may be obtained on adjoining property;
      (4)   Unless Fiscal Court or City Council dictates otherwise, land to be
obtained shall be left undisturbed in its natural state, and no existing trees
shall be removed by the developer. No land shall be used for any purpose
relating to the development of the subdivision (except for park and open space
purposes) except as may be approved by the Fiscal Court or City Council; and
      (5)   Parks and open space may be owned and maintained by Fiscal Court,
the City of Wilmore or by a neighborhood association.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.702)
   (D)   Procedures for acceptance of dedication.
      (1)   Planning Commission review.  The Planning Commission shall review
all subdivision and development plans to determine the appropriateness of any
portion of the site to be dedicated. Where proposed sites are specifically
shown on adopted elements of the comprehensive plan, those sites shall be the
sites to be obtained. In the absence of such specific designation on the
comprehensive plan, the Planning Commission shall determine the suitability of
any portion of the site for dedication, utilizing locational criteria contained
within the adopted comprehensive plan. In all cases, the Planning Commission
shall make a recommendation to the Fiscal Court or City Council on the site as
to whether or not land is to be dedicated on the development in question, or a
fee to be paid.
      (2)   Legislative body. The Fiscal Court or City Council shall review the
Planning Commission's recommendation and shall vote on the acceptance of the
land to be dedicated. Upon affirmative action of the Fiscal Court or the City
Council, the developer shall prepare a plat in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter showing the property and a general warranty deed transferring
title to the property to the Jessamine County or City of Wilmore Government
shall be passed. Title to the property shall be in the hands of the Jessamine
County or City of Wilmore Government prior to Planning Commission approval of
any final subdivision plan or final development plan for the subdivision in
which the land is to be obtained.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.703)
   (E)   Extent of developer's liability. No developer shall be liable for
dedication beyond the provisions of division (B) of this section. The developer
shall be compensated for all land within the development which is to be
provided for community facilities in excess of the requirement for the
development unless the developer voluntarily waives his or her right to that
compensation.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.704)
   (F)   Fees in lieu of dedication. Where dedication is not feasible or
desirable due to size, shape, location, topography or other physical feature of
the land, or where, in the opinion of the Fiscal Court or City Council,
dedication will create an insurmountable hardship to the proposed development,
or where a neighborhood park of sufficient size has previously been acquired by
the Fiscal Court or City Council, the developer shall, in lieu of dedication,
pay to the appropriate government a fee in accordance with the following
provisions in divisions (F)(1) and (2). Within the City of Wilmore, when the
City Council deems it advantageous to the neighborhood, it may at its
discretion accept an agreement with the developer providing for a combination
of dedicated land and fees.
      (1)   Review and approval of fee requirement. When the Planning
Commission and Fiscal Court or City Council has determined, after review in
accordance with division (D) of this section, that no land is to be obtained
within the development, the Fiscal Court or City Council shall require and
determine the amount of the payment of fees in lieu of dedication. The fee
shall be based upon the fair market value of the otherwise required land
dedication.
      (2)   Disposition of funds. All fees collected shall be collected and
shall be placed in specified Neighborhood Park and Open Space Acquisition and
Improvement Funds and shall be used solely for the acquisition (including
repayment to the General Fund or other fund monies to the extent that the
General or other funds were utilized for the purpose of park acquisition since
the date of adoption of this subchapter), development or improvement of park or
open space that is or will be available and accessible to, and that will
benefit residents of the subdivision from which the exaction originated.
Payment shall be made concurrently with the approval of the preliminary plat.
If the Fiscal Court or City Council determines, however, that due to the lack
of facilities or other reasons, the acquisition of an accessible park site
would be unlikely for such a long period of time that residents would be
unfairly denied the use of a neighborhood park or community facility, and a
park or other community facility is either proposed or existing in the
neighborhood within such close proximity to the subdivision that its residents
could be expected to utilize the community facility, the Fiscal Court or City
Council, upon the findings, may cause the funds generated by the subdivision to
be expanded for acquisition or development of the community facility in the
neighborhood.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.705)
   (G)   Reservation of land for parks, open space and community facilities. In
addition to the dedication and/or fee requirements of this subchapter, it is
recognized that reservation of land pending acquisition by the Fiscal Court or
City Council will be necessary in certain instances. The developer in the
design of the subdivision plan and the Planning Commission in its review of the
plan shall consider the adequate provision of sites for public parks, open
spaces and other community facilities as indicated on the comprehensive plan.
Where those areas are shown and located on the comprehensive plan, or where the
Planning Commission otherwise determines that a portion of the plan is required
for those uses, the developer may be required to reserve such rights for a
period not to exceed 2 years after the preliminary subdivision plan approval,
after which time the Fiscal Court or City Council shall either acquire the
property or release the reservation.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 4.706)
§ 153.068 CEMETERIES.
   (A)   The intent of this section is to establish guidelines for developing
or dividing land with cemeteries, and the general upkeep and security of
inactive and private family cemeteries. Nothing in this section shall exempt a
property owner, developer of the Planning Commission from applicable state
statutes and regulations (KRS and KAR). A parcel of land on which an inactive
and private family cemetery is located may be used as allowed by the sites
zoning classification and other applicable regulations. Relocation or removal
of grave sites shall be allowed only under applicable Kentucky Revised Statutes
and Kentucky Administrative Regulations.
      (1)   This section shall apply to owners or persons developing major
agricultural subdivisions, clusters, residential, commercial or industrial
developments, including owners of land being divided into 4 or more parcels.
      (2)   Preexisting lots or minor subdivisions of 3 or less parcels are
exempt from this section.
   (B)   Preservation: ownership of cemetery on tract proposed for development.
In preserving a cemetery, while at the same time developing or dividing a
parcel, an applicant shall follow 1 of the following options.
      (1)   Transfer the existing cemetery as part of a buildable lot.
Ownership and maintenance of the cemetery would be left to the individual lot
owner.
      (2)   Make the existing cemetery a separate lot. Ownership and
maintenance of the cemetery would be assigned by written agreement with either
the original owner of the cemetery, subdivision homeowners association, the
developer of a subdivision, a local legislative unit, or an historical
organization.
      (3)   Creation of a separate non-buildable lot for a cemetery shall not
alter the density for a proposed development or other applicable standards for
the zone.
      (4)   In all of the above options, the owner or person developing the
land shall comply with division (C)(1)-(9) of this section.
   (C)   Preservation and maintenance. The regulations outlined below apply
only to private inactive family cemeteries and not to active cemeteries where
grave sites are clearly identified by Planning Commission Staff. Any waiver of
these regulations must be requested from the Board of Adjustment.
If a private cemetery exists on a parcel of land and the exact location of
grave sites is not able to be determined, or a cemetery is discovered during
construction, a developer or property owner is advised to follow the procedures
and guidelines stated in division (D) of this section.
      (1)   Cemetery boundaries shall be established by the owner and submitted
to the Architectural Review Board for approval. Request for approval should
include evidence of location such as fences, walls, grave stones, natural
features or recorded documents. If sufficient evidence for location of cemetery
boundary does not exist then the Architectural Review Board may require the
owners to have a professional archeologist view the site and make a
determination as to the boundaries and potential number of grave sites.
         (a)   No new structure or building addition shall be built within 30
feet of an existing private family cemetery regardless of adjoining property
lines or land ownership. This 30-foot limitation is also required regardless of
whether the cemetery is part of a building lot or is conveyed as a separate
lot. The 30-foot limitation shall be in the form of an exclusive cemetery
easement.
         (b)   No grading, excavating, paving or land disturbance shall be
allowed within 30 feet of a cemetery.
      (2)   The owner or person developing the land shall repair or replace any
existing cemetery fences or walls. The owner may request approval from the
Planning Commission for an alternate type of fence if the existing fence or
wall is not repairable. The following types of fencing are acceptable: stone,
brick, ornamental iron, chain link, pressure-treated wood picket or plank
constructed with a quality of workmanship and material that guarantees a life
expectancy of 20 years. Cemetery fences or walls shall be constructed, repaired
or replaced at time of development or division prior to final plat approval.
      (3)   The owner shall be required to construct a new fence if one does
not exist at time of establishment of cemetery boundary.
      (4)   At time of construction of new fence, dead or decaying trees and
heavy underbrush shall be removed from the cemetery. Remaining trees shall be
pruned to a height to create a clear vertical view of 8 feet. Ground cover
shall also be established at this time.
      (5)   Weeds and other debris should be removed on an annual basis.
      (6)   Grass should be cut, mowed or weedeat on a routine basis.
      (7)   A statement by the property owner shall be made on the Development
Plan or Division Plat regarding cemetery ownership and maintenance.
      (8)   A certificate of land use restriction, cemetery easement and a deed
restriction shall be recorded in the Jessamine County Clerk’s office
acknowledging the location, size, ownership and maintenance of a cemetery. This
information shall also be recorded on the final development plan, and the final
plat for a subdivision if not yet recorded.
      (9)   Public or controlled access to family descendants shall be provided
by the owner to the existing cemetery. The recording of the cemetery access
easement shall follow the same guidelines in division (C)(8) above.
   (D)   Cemetery preservation, relocation and discovery procedures. In order
to assist property owners or developers in their cemetery preservation or
relocation work, the following procedures and guidelines shall be followed.
These procedures or guidelines are to be followed by each property owner or
developer and shall be enforced by the Architectural Review Board and the
Zoning Enforcement Officer. The procedures are based upon either cemetery
preservation or relocation plans.
      (1)   Preservation of existing cemetery. If a property owner desires to
preserve an existing cemetery while developing or dividing his or her own
property, then the property owner shall state his or her intent to the
Architectural Review Board and the Jessamine County/City of Wilmore Joint
Planning Commission in writing and follow the lot and maintenance requirements
as stated in these Regulations.
      (2)   Relocation of an existing cemetery. If a property owner desires to
relocate an existing cemetery with advice from the Architectural Review Board,
then the property owner shall state his or her intent to the Architectural
Review Board and the Planning Commission in writing and follow the requirements
for relocation per Kentucky Revised Statutes and Kentucky Administrative
Regulations. Copies of all required state and local applications and permits
during the relocation procedure shall be submitted to the Planning Commission
and Architectural Review Board.
      (3)   Discovery of an unknown cemetery. If a property owner or developer
unintentionally discovers a cemetery during construction, which was previously
unknown, all work in the immediate area shall cease immediately. The property
owner or developer shall be responsible to report this disclosure to the
Jessamine County/Wilmore Planning Commission and Agricultural Review Board. As
a result, the following steps should be taken:
         (a)   First, the property owner or developer has the option of stating
in writing to the Planning Commission and the Architectural Review Board
whether he or she will preserve the cemetery in accordance with these and state
regulations or relocate the cemetery in accordance with state law. Either
option will result in a submittal to the Planning Commission a revised
subdivision plat, development plan and/or zoning permit to be reviewed and
approved by the Planning Commission. Planning Commission staff and the
Architectural Review Board shall be available to advise the property owner or
developer of the benefits of cemetery preservation versus relocation.
         (b)   Second, if a property owner or developer decides not to report
the presence of a cemetery that is previously unknown and attempts to conceal
any evidence that a cemetery ever existed and discovery of this fact is
presented to the Planning Commission or Fiscal Court, then the Planning
Commission shall notify the property owner or developer in writing to stop
construction work in the area surrounding the cemetery. At the next regularly
scheduled Planning Commission Meeting, the property owner or developer must be
present to discuss the matter and offer a solution. This solution shall include
the following:
            1.   The boundaries of the cemetery shall be identified by a
professional (Kentucky registered) archaeologist at the expense of the owner or
developer;
            2.   The cemetery fence (if it exists) shall be repaired, replaced
or reconditioned at the owner or developer’s expense. The cemetery’s condition
shall be returned to its natural state and maintained per division (C) of this
section and ownership shall be established per division (B) of this section;
            3.   Inspection of the cemetery preservation work shall be done
periodically by the Planning Commission Enforcement Officer to insure that the
work is completed in a reasonable amount of time.
   (E)   Subdivision regulations for the Jessamine County/City of Wilmore.
Articles III and IV of the Subdivision Regulations for Jessamine County/City of
Wilmore shall be amended to reference this section of the Jessamine County
Zoning Regulations.
(Ord. passed - -)
FINAL APPROVAL OF PLAT; IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED
§ 153.080 SCOPE.
   The minimum improvements which the subdividers will be required to make or
enter into a binding agreement to make in a subdivision prior to the approval
of the final subdivision plat by the Planning Commission, shall be prescribed
by the following provisions. Nothing in these regulations shall be construed to
prohibit the subdividers from constructing higher types of improvements than
the minimum required by the sections of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Art. V)
§ 153.081 MONUMENTS.
   Permanent concrete monuments 36 inches in length, all or most of which is to
be set in the ground, and 4 inches square or round in cross-section, shall be
set at all corners of the plat. The top of the monument shall have a 1/2-inch
dowel or an indented cross to properly identify the location. At least 2 of
these monuments shall be described on the final subdivision plat, each in
relation to preferably a section corner of the Coordinate System of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, or triangulation points with the city or county and
in accordance with the requirements of the authorized engineer or agent.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 5.100)
§ 153.082 STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Grading. Before grading, the entire right-of-way shall be first
cleared of all stumps, roots, brush, soft clay, spongy material, of all trees
not intended for preservation, and any other objectionable matter. This
objectionable matter, as well as similar matter from cuts, shall be removed
from the right-of-way and disposed of in a manner so that it will not become
incorporated in any fills or be an obstacle in the way of drainage. Any fill
material shall be free from trash and unwanted foreign objects and be properly
compacted. The subgrade shall be properly shaped, rolled and uniformly
compacted to conform with the accepted cross-section and grades. The grading
for all streets, roads and alleys shall be performed so that pavements and
sidewalks would be constructed on a horizontal base line at any cross-section,
except where topographical conditions would allow otherwise with the approval
of the authorized engineer or agent.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 5.201)
   (B)   Pavement.  All streets and alleys shall have a dust-free type of
pavement with no loose aggregate. Pavement width shall conform with the
dimensions and data related to the street classification as described in §
153.062. The pavement specifications shall be designed to carry the expected
traffic loads and shall conform with the Kentucky Department of Highways
current standard specifications for portland cement concrete pavement, but
under no circumstances shall the depth of pavement construction in residential
and agricultural zones be less than 10 inches of compacted rock in 2 compacted
lifts (the first being 6 inches of No. 2 rock and the second lift being 4
inches of dense grade aggregate, 3 inches of Class I binder and 1 inch of Class
I surface, and under no circumstances shall the depth of pavement construction
in commercial, business and industrial zones or arterial streets, be less than
10 inches of compacted rock (the first lift being 6 inches of No. 2 rock, and
the second lift consisting of 4 inches of dense grade aggregate) with 5-1/
2 inches of asphalt (consisting of 4 inches of Class I binder, and 1-1/2 inches
of Class I surface). Moisture content after final compaction and immediately
prior to application of first layer of asphalt shall not exceed 5 nor be less
than 2%. All roadbed compaction and construction shall follow the standards in
the Kentucky Department of Transportation, Bureau of Highways, Standard
Specification, current edition. See
Appendix B, Figures
2 and
3 for typical road sections.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 5.202; Am. Ord. passed 4-10-2001; Am. Ord. passed 4-
12-2005)
   (C)   Curbs and gutters.  
      (1)   Curbs and gutters shall be required in all subdivisions. However,
in a residential single-family subdivision when a public drainage system is not
available or planned, the Planning Commission may waive the requirements. Curbs
shall not be less than 6, nor more than 8 inches in height above the gutter
line, with the fill behind the curbs sloping toward the curb to ensure proper
drainage into the gutters. Curbs shall be constructed of portland cement
concrete. Rolled curbs shall be poured integrally with a portland cement
concrete pavement. Combined curbs and gutters shall be formed and poured in all
streets where asphaltic concrete is used. Whenever curbs and gutters are
waived, shoulder and drainage ditches shall be constructed of compacted soil to
the widths specified in §
153.062 herein. The ditches shall be of adequate size to carry the runoff water
and to prevent flooding. To avoid erosion, these ditches might be required to
be concrete-lined.
      (2)   Earth shoulders shall be constructed flush with but no less than 1
inch lower than the edge of the pavement and shall slope away from edge of
pavement at a rate of 3/4 inch/foot. Roadway ditches shall be constructed
parallel to centerline of the roadway, having a side slope no steeper than 2
horizontal to 1 vertical. The flow-line of the ditch may be flat bottom or V-
channel and shall be constructed parallel and below centerline grade at a depth
of at least 2 feet or greater.
      (3)   The shoulder, ditch and disturbed areas of construction shall be
seeded. Prior to seeding the areas shall be sacrificed or disked to loosen soil
to a depth of 3 inches. Seeding shall consist of KY-31 fescue applied at a rate
of 65 pounds/acre and incorporated into the seedbed. Developer shall take any
additional steps as are necessary to ensure establishment of sufficient
vegetation cover, including but not limited to mulching, fertilizing, liming
and watering. Same shall be growth of specified grasses through 1 complete
growing season and having a plant density of 150 live seedlings representative
of the specified seed mixture per square foot on at least 90% of each seeded
area, with no vacant areas larger that 250 square feet each. The vegetative
bond shall not be released pursuant to this chapter until all areas are
acceptable as to establishment.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 5.203)
   (D)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be required in residential and commercial
subdivisions, at shopping centers, playgrounds, schools, and where a pedestrian
movement is concentrated, for the pedestrians' greater safety, convenience and
better circulation. However, the Planning Commission may waive the sidewalk
requirements in single-family unit developments. Sidewalks along arterial or
collector streets and along multi-family developments shall be 5 feet wide,
except along commercial developments where they shall be 8 feet wide, otherwise
sidewalks shall be 4 feet wide. Sidewalks shall be constructed at least 2 feet
from the ditch line or from the curb except at street intersections. Sidewalks
shall be built of portland cement and either at the elevation of the curb and
sloping towards it or higher than the pavement when no curb is to be provided,
with a slope of 2 to 1 to support the fill properly. Sidewalks shall be built
on a well-compacted subgrade using sheep foot rollers, and a subbase of gravel
shall be provided.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 5.204)
   (E)   Street name signs. The subdivider shall, at the time of submitting his
or her performance bond, furnish a sum of money sufficient to reimburse the
city or county for the purchase price and installation cost of all street name
signs required in his or her subdivision.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 5.205)
§ 153.083 UTILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements.  
      (1)   Generally utilities should be provided in or near lot easements
whenever possible. In cases where underground utilities must be provided within
the right-of-way of streets, they should not be installed under the pavement.
All of the in-street underground work, including water mains, gas mains, sewer
lines and the like, and all service connections shall be completely installed
and approved by the authorized engineer or agent throughout the length and
width of the street after grading, but before any pavement base is applied.
Service connections on one or another side of the street shall be allowed to be
omitted as long as at the time that these service connections are needed, they
be jacked across the right-of-way without breaking or weakening the existing
pavement.
      (2)   Within the City of Wilmore, underground distribution lines for
utilities and cable shall be required in all residential subdivisions. Also,
incorporated by reference as part of these subdivision regulations and general
requirements for utilities for the City of Wilmore are the current standard
specifications for water and sewer construction projects.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 5.301; Am. Ord. passed 8-10-1999)
   (B)   Water supply. Where a public water supply system is available or
within reasonable distance to the proposed subdivision as determined by the
Planning Commission, the subdivider or developer shall construct a complete
water distribution system according to the specifications of the agency having
jurisdiction and shall provide a connection for each lot with laterals extended
to the lot line. Where sufficient volume and pressure is available, fire
hydrants shall also be provided and placed at distances not more than 500 feet
apart. The hydrant outlet nozzles shall be between 18 and 21 inches above
finished grade. All water main lines shall be at least 3 feet deep. The
adequacy, healthfulness and potableness of the water supply shall be subject to
the approval of the authorized engineer or person.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 5.302; Am. Ord. passed 8-10-1999)
   (C)   Sanitary sewers.  Where a public sanitary sewer system is available or
reasonably accessible to the proposed subdivision, as determined by the
Planning Commission, the subdivider or developer shall construct a system of
sanitary sewer mains and shall connect the subdivision system to the public
system after the authorized engineer or person has approved the subdivision
system. Where a public sanitary sewer system is not reasonably accessible, the
subdivider shall either construct or complete a sanitary sewer system according
to the agency having jurisdiction and subject to the approval of the authorized
engineer or person, or conduct necessary tests to show than an individual
subsurface sewage disposal system can be developed on each lot shown in the
subdivision that will comply with the requirements of the current Division of
Plumbing, Department of Housing and Building Construction, Commonwealth of
Kentucky.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 5.303)
   (D)   Storm drainage.
      (1)   The subdivider shall be responsible for adequate and safe disposal
of all surface waters in the subdivision and shall provide for that purpose a
drainage system including the necessary retention basins, open ditches, pipes,
culverts, inter-sectional drains, drop inlets, bridges and the like, such that
the peak rate of post development discharge shall not exceed the peak rate of
pre-development discharge. The standard for design of retention basins shall
be: The Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds, Technical Release #55, Soil
Conservation Service USDA; January 1975 edition, or as revised. Cross-drains
should be provided to accommodate all natural flow for the full width of the
roadways. When the physical conditions necessitate a storm sewer in excess of
60 inches in diameter to provide adequate drainage in the subdivision for areas
beyond the limits of the plat, the city or county may participate in the excess
installation costs of sewers over 60 inches in diameter. In lieu of this
participation drainage channels may be permitted when, in the judgment of the
County Health Officer, they will not result in health hazards and where proper
safety measures are taken.
      (2)   Storm design criteria shall be 100-year, 24-hour duration for
retention basins. The standard for design of all other drainage structures such
as bridges, ditches, gutters, pipes, channels and the like shall be: Manual of
Instruction for Drainage Design, Kentucky Department of Transportation, current
edition; using design storm criteria as specified therein.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 5.304)
   (E)   Electric supply system. Provisions shall be made in every subdivision
for a satisfactory electric supply system. Wherever possible poles should be to
the rear of the lots.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 5.305)
   (F)   Street lighting. Provisions for street lighting shall be made in
accordance to the specifications of the governmental agency having
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 5.306)
§ 153.084 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS PRIOR TO APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Approval of improvements. No final subdivision plat shall be approved
by the Planning Commission or accepted for record by the County Clerk until the
improvements listed are constructed and approved by the appropriate county or
city official having jurisdiction, or a performance bond is posted per §
153.024 or division (B) of this section.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 5.401)
   (B)   Bond. In lieu of this prior construction, the Planning Commission
shall require a performance bond sufficient to cover the estimated cost of the
required improvements plus 25%. The bond shall be subject to the condition that
the improvements will be completed within a reasonable time set by the Planning
Commission, which shall not exceed 18 months after approval of the final
subdivision plat. An extension of an additional 6 months time may be applied
for by the developer. The Planning Commission may grant an extension for valid
reasons, subject to an increase in bonding if substantial construction has not
been completed.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 5.402)
(Am. Ord. passed 7-10-2001)
VARIANCES AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.100 CONDITIONS FOR MODIFICATION.
   The Planning Commission may vary or modify regulations only under the
following conditions.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 6.100)
   (A)   Hardship.  If it is found by the Planning Commission that strict
enforcement of these regulations would create an undue hardship because of the
extraordinary or unique physical conditions that exist on the property to be
subdivided, and which are not found usually within the area of jurisdiction of
this chapter, any variance shall be to the extent necessary to provide relief
for the undue hardship. Financial disadvantage alone to the property owner is
not proof of hardship within the purpose of these regulations.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 6.101)
   (B)   Absence of detriment. No granting of a variance shall be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to the surrounding improvements
or subdivisions.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 6.102)
   (C)   Conformance to regulations. The granting of the variance shall not be
contrary to the objectives of these subdivision regulations or the
comprehensive plan.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 6.103)
   (D)   Conditioned variance. In granting a variance or modification, the
Planning Commission may require such conditions as will, in its judgment,
substantially secure the objectives of the standards or requirements so varied
or modified.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 6.104)
   (E)   Design innovations. Design innovations which, in the opinion of the
Planning Commission, achieve the basic objectives of these regulations may be
granted a variance or modification of these regulations. The Planning
Commission shall require those conditions, such as covenants or other legal
provisions, which it feels are necessary to assure conformity to and
achievement of the proposed subdivision plan.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 6.105)
   (F)   Variances in conflict with the zoning regulations. When a variance
from the subdivision regulations is granted, and this variance would constitute
a variance from an adopted zoning ordinance, the variance shall only be granted
by the Planning Commission with the condition that the variance is granted by
the Board of Zoning Adjustment. An application for a variance shall first be
considered by the Planning Commission, and then by the Board of Zoning
Adjustment. The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall have jurisdiction only where
the zoning ordinance is in effect, and shall follow the procedure set forth in
that zoning ordinance. In no case shall such a variance create a density more
than minimally different from the requirements as established by the zoning
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 6.106)
   (G)   Variance procedure.  The applicant, at the time of submission of the
preliminary plat application, shall submit as part of the application any
variances desired from the subdivision regulations. The variances shall be
listed by the applicable section and reasons for the granting of each variance
shall be given in writing as part of the application. The Planning Commission
will review the variances and state the reasons for approval or denial of the
variances in the minutes of the meeting.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 6.700)
§ 153.101 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Voidance and inability to record properties in nonapproved
subdivision. No person owning land composing a subdivision, or his or her
agent, shall transfer, lease or sell or agree to sell any lot or parcel of land
located within a subdivision by reference to, or by exhibition or by any other
use of a plat of the subdivision, before the plat has received, in writing,
final approval of the Planning Commission, and recorded by the County Clerk.
Any such instrument of transfer, lease, sale or contract shall be void and
shall not be subject to be recorded, but all rights of the purchaser to damages
are hereby preserved. The description of sublot or parcel by metes and bounds
in any contract or instrument of transfer or other document used in the process
of selling or transferring same shall not exempt the person attempting to
transfer from penalties provided or deprive the purchaser of any rights or
remedies he or she may otherwise have.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 6.201)
   (B)   Utilities improvements conditioned to a legal public status of the
street. No board, public officer or authority shall accept, lay out, improve or
authorize utilities to be laid in any street within the territory for which the
Planning Commission has adopted these subdivision regulations unless the street
has received a legal status of public street prior to the adoption of the
subdivision regulations, or unless a street corresponds with a street shown on
the major thoroughfare plan or equivalent, or unless a street on a subdivision
plan or a street plan has been approved by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 6.202)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any subdivider, County Court Clerk, public official or other person
who violates and does not comply with these subdivision regulations, the
conditions set forth by the Planning Commission, Board of Zoning Adjustment, or
any court, or does not comply with the plans presented and approved, may have
the Planning Commission take the following actions against him or her:
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 6.300)
      (1)   Injunctions. The Planning Commission may apply for an injunction
against any type of subdivision construction by a subdivider or landowner where
these subdivision regulations have been violated.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 6.301)
      (2)   Withholding building permits and certificates of occupancy. The
Planning Commission may direct the Administrative Officer not to issue building
permits in the subdivision in question.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 6.302)
      (3)   Fines. The Planning Commission may take action to fine any person
or entity who is in violation of these provisions or any of the regulations
adopted pursuant hereunder for which no other penalty is provided in accordance
with KRS 100.991.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, § 6.303)
APPENDIX A: FEE SCHEDULE
   This schedule shall be used to compute the fee that shall accompany any
application for preliminary plats, final plats and amended final subdivision
plats.
Zone Fee
Zone               Fee
A-1                $40 plus greater of $4 per lot or $10 per acre
R-1 and R-2        $50 plus greater of $8 per lot or $30 per acre
R-3                $80 plus greater of $12 per lot or $50 per acre
B-1 and B-2        $100 plus greater of $12 per lot or $25 per acre
I-1 and I-2        $120 plus greater of $12 per lot or $30 per acre
Consolidation plat $50 (any zone)
Minor plats        $50 (any zone)
 
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Appendix I)
APPENDIX B: DIAGRAMS
FIGURE 1: TYPICAL REALIGNMENT AND WIDENING OF EXISTING STREETS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/92912e445bca998b8f9e941dc25d23ee77fde601/
IMAGES/0-0-0-809.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Appendix A)
FIGURE 2: TYPICAL ROADWAY SECTION FOR RURAL LOCAL/MINOR STREETS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/92912e445bca998b8f9e941dc25d23ee77fde601/
IMAGES/0-0-0-812.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Appendix B)
FIGURE 3: TYPICAL ROADWAY SECTION FOR RURAL COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL AND BUSINESS
ZONES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/92912e445bca998b8f9e941dc25d23ee77fde601/
IMAGES/0-0-0-815.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Appendix C)
APPENDIX C: FORMS
FORM I: MINOR PLAT
        1.   Submit application to Planning Commission to be received by the
Administrative Officer by the day indicated on the application deadline
schedule posted in the office of the Administrative Officer. Applications
received after the day indicated on the deadline schedule shall not be reviewed
at the next regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting.
        2.   Submit 3 copies of minor plat to Planning Commission along with
the application containing the following:
      A.   Scale of 100 feet = 1 inch or larger.
      B.   Existing right-of-way and/or easements:
         1.   Location;
         2.   Width; and
         3.   Purpose.
      C.   Utility location.
      D.   Street names.
      E.   Site data:
         1.   Proposed lot size; and
         2.   Number of lots.
      F.   Minimum setback lines.
      G.   Lot lines, lot numbers.
      H.   Vicinity map.
      I.   Identifying title block in lower right-hand corner including:
         1.   Subdivision name;
         2.   Name(s) and address(es) of record owner(s) and/or subdivider(s);
         3.   Name, address and seal or stamp of engineer or surveyor;
         4.   Acreage to nearest 1/100 of an acre;
         5.   Date;
         6.   Graphic scale; and
         7.   North arrow.
        3.   Submit certified authorizations as follows:
      A.   Statement of accuracy of plat (
Appendix C, Form IV(E));
      B.   Certificate of ownership and dedication (
Appendix C, Form IV(D)); and
      C.   Approval of appropriate officer for recording (
Appendix C, Form IV(G)).
        4.   Submit certified check or money order to applicable fees as per
Appendix A of the subdivision regulations.
       5.   Appear before the Planning Commission to present the plat unless
the required public review has been waived. Applicant's engineer may appear for
the applicant.
        6.   Record the plat in the Jessamine County Clerk's Office.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Appendix II)
Click_here_to_view_the_above_form_in_a_PDF_document.
FORM II: PRELIMINARY PLAT
        1.   Submit application to Planning Commission to be received by the
Administrative Officer by the day indicated on the application deadline
schedule posted in the office of the Administrative Officer. Applications
received after the day indicated on the deadline schedule shall not be reviewed
at the next regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting.
        2.   Submit 15 copies of the preliminary plat to Planning Commission as
follows:
      A.   Clearly legible in black/blue waterproof medium.
      B.   Uniform sheets 18 inches by 24 inches. Also submit index of same
size if more than 1 sheet is used.
      C.   Identifying title block in lower right-hand corner including:
         1.   Subdivision names;
         2.   Names and address(es) of record owner(s) and/or subdivider(s);
         3.   Name, address and seal or stamp of engineer or surveyor;
         4.   Acreage to nearest 1/100 of an acre;
         5.   Date;
         6.   Graphic scale; and
         7.   North arrow.
      D.   Scale of 200 feet - 1 inch or larger.
      E.   Topographic data (as listed in §
153.036 sketch plan).
      F.   Vicinity map.
      G.   Statement regarding the impact to the area.
        3.   Submit certified authorizations as follows:
      A.   Statement of accuracy of plat (
Appendix C, Form IV(E));
      B.   Certificate of water availability (
Appendix C, Form IV(B));
      C.   Certificate of sewage disposal services availability (
Appendix C, Form IV(C));
      D.   Approval of appropriate officer and County Highways Department (
Appendix C, Form IV(A)); and
      E.   Certificate of ownership and dedication (
Appendix C, Form IV(D)).
        4.   Submit certified check or money order for applicable fees as per
Appendix A of the subdivision regulations.
        5.   Appear with the engineer before the Planning Commission to present
plat.
        6.   Make necessary corrections (if any) and prepare final plat.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Appendix III)
Click_here_to_view_the_above_form_in_a_PDF_document.
FORM III: FINAL PLAT
        1.   File application with Planning Commission within 1 year of
approval or conditional approval of preliminary plat.
        2.   Submit application to Planning Commission to be received by the
Administrative Officer by the day indicated on the application deadline
schedule posted in the office of the Administrative Officer. Applications
received after the day indicated on the deadline schedule shall not be reviewed
at the next regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting.
        3.   Submit 6 copies of the final plat, including all supplementary
material included in preliminary plat.
        4.   Comply in all respects with the preliminary plat as approved, or
modified as required if conditionally approved.
        5.   Scale of 100 feet = 1 inch or larger.
        6.   Uniform sheets, 18 inches by 24 inches.
        7.   Identification information to nearest 1/100 foot.
      A.   Name and right-of-way lines of each street;
      B.   Location, dimension and purposes of any easements;
      C.   Lot number, lot lines and street number;
      D.   Minimum building setback;
      E.   Frontage dimensions;
      F.   Names and locations of adjoining subdivisions and streets;
      G.   Names and addresses of owners of adjoining unplatted properties; and
      H.   Intersection property lines.
        8.   Street design data.
        9.   As-built improvement drawings, including a reproducible copy and 5
other copies.
        10.   Improvements as required.
      A.   Location and description of at least 2 monuments.
      B.   Street construction:
         1.   Grading;
         2.   Pavement;
         3.   Curbs and gutters;
         4.   Sidewalks; and
         5.   Street name signs.
      C.   Utilities:
         1.   Water supply;
         2.   Sanitary sewers;
         3.   Storm drainage;
         4.   Electric supply system; and
         5.   Street lighting.
        11.   Approve improvements with Planning Commission or have County
Clerk accept them as record until constructed.
        12.   In lieu of prior construction of improvements submit security
bond, certified check for 125% of estimated cost. A letter of credit may also
be submitted.
        13.   Submit certified authorizations as described in preliminary plat
flow chart, plus Forms F and G (see
Appendix C, Forms
IV(F) and (G)).
        14.   Submit certified check or money order for applicable fees as
described in
Appendix A of the subdivision regulations.
        15.   Include the entirety of the approved preliminary plat or section
thereof which derives access from a street already improved or to be improved.
        16.   Planning Commission has 90 days to act on submitted application.
Failure to act within 90 days shall be deemed approval of final plat.
        17.   Final plat is void if revised after approval.
        18.   Record signed copies in County Clerk's office. Return 1 recorded
copy to Planning Commission office.
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Appendix IV)
Click_here_to_view_the_above_form_in_a_PDF_document.
FORM IV: CERTIFICATION FORMS
   (A)   FORM A (on preliminary layout):
      CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL OF ROADWAY SYSTEM
      I hereby certify that the roadway locations and cross-sections proposed
to be constructed in the subdivision shown hereon meet the criteria of the
Jessamine County Road Department.
       (Date) , 20                            
      (Signature of County Road Engineer)
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Appendix V)
   (B)   FORM B (on preliminary layout and final subdivision plat):
      CERTIFICATION OF AVAILABILITY OF WATER SUPPLY
      I hereby certify that  (name of agency or company)  shall supply the
(name of subdivision)  with services, and that the water distribution system of
said subdivision meets the requirements of this agency and all other
requirements for the proper distribution of water.
       (Date) , 20                            
      (Signature of the Engineer of the agency or company)
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Appendix V)
   (C)   FORM C (on preliminary layout and final subdivision plat):
      CERTIFICATION OF AVAILABILITY OF SEWAGE SERVICES
      I hereby certify that  (name of agency or company)  shall supply the
(name of subdivision)  with sewage disposal services and the sewage disposal
system of said subdivision meets the requirements of this agency and all other
requirements for the proper disposal of sewage.
       (Date) , 20                            
      (Signature of the Engineer of the agency or company)
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Appendix V)
   (D)   FORM D (on final subdivision plat):
      CERTIFICATION OF OWNERSHIP AND DEDICATION
      I (we) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property
shown and described hereon and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of the
subdivision with my (our) free consent, establish the minimum building
restriction lines, and dedicate all streets, alleys, walks, parks and other
open spaces to public or private use as shown, in accordance with the Wilmore
and Jessamine County subdivision regulations, unless otherwise noted.
       (Date) , 20                            
      (Signature of owner or owners)
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Appendix V)
   (E)   FORM E (on final subdivision plat):
      CERTIFICATE OF ACCURACY
      I hereby certify that the plan shown and described hereon is a true and
correct survey to the accuracy required by the City of Wilmore-Jessamine County
Planning Commission and that the monuments have been placed as shown herein to
the specifications of the Jessamine County Engineer or other authorized
officer.
       (Date) , 20                            
      (Signature of registered engineer or surveyor)
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Appendix V)
   (F)   FORM F (attached to final subdivision plat):
      CERTIFICATION OF THE APPROVAL OF STREETS AND UTILITIES
      I hereby certify that: (1) that streets, utilities and other improvements
have been installed in an acceptable manner and according to city (county)
specifications in the subdivision entitled:                               or,
(2) that a security bond in the amount of $                   has been posted
with the legislative body of                           , Kentucky to assure
completion of all required improvements in case of default.
       (Date) , 20                            
      (Planning Commission Administrative Officer or other Approving Agent)
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Appendix V)
   (G)   FORM G (on final subdivision plat):
      APPROVAL FOR RECORDING
      I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to
comply with the subdivision regulations for                          ,
Kentucky, with the exceptions of such variances, if any, as are noted in the
minutes of the Planning Commission and that it has been approved for recording
in the office of the County Clerk.
       (Date) , 20                            
      (Chairperson or Secretary, Planning Commission)
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Appendix V)
   (H)   FORM H (on preliminary plat):
      PROHIBITED TRANSACTIONS
      This plat cannot be used for the sale of undeveloped lots until a final
plat has been recorded.
       (Date) , 20                            
      (Signature of Applicant)
(Ord. passed 2- -1985, Appendix V)
   (I)   FORM I (on retracement plat):
      CERTIFICATION OF OWNERSHIP AND ACCURACY
      I (we) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property
shown and described hereon and that I (we) hereby certify as to the accuracy
and existence of all physical features reflected on the plat, and to compliance
with the Jessamine County-City of Wilmore subdivision regulations and the
zoning ordinance for
                              , Kentucky.
       (Date) , 20                            
      (Signature of owner or owners)
(Ord. passed 8-14-2001)
   (J)   FORM J (on retracement plat):
      CERTIFICATE OF ACCURACY
      I hereby certify that the survey shown and described hereon is a true and
correct survey to the accuracy required by the standards of practice for
professional land surveyors in Kentucky and the Jessamine County-City of
Wilmore Planning Commission, and that monuments have been placed as shown
herein to the specifications of the survey and the Jessamine County-City of
Wilmore subdivision regulations. I further certify as to the accuracy and
existence of all physical features reflected on said plat.
       (Date) , 20                            
      (Signature of Licensed Land Surveyor)
(Ord. passed 8-14-2001)
   (K)   FORM K (on retracement plat):
      I hereby certify that the retracement plat shown hereon has been approved
for recording in the office of the Jessamine County Clerk as compliant with the
applicable subdivision regulations; however, no representation is made as to
the existence or accuracy of any physical features reflected thereon.
       (Date) , 20                            
      (Chairperson or Secretary, Planning Commission)
(Ord. passed 8-14-2001)
Click_here_to_view_the_above_form_in_a_PDF_document.
CHAPTER 154: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Zoning regulations adopted by reference
§ 154.01 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county zoning regulations, copies of which are on file in the office of
the County Clerk, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as it set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 155: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
155.01   Statutory authorization
   
155.02   Findings of fact
   
155.03   Statement of purpose
   
155.04   Objectives
   
155.05   Definitions
General Provisions
   
155.15   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
155.16   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
155.17   Development permit required
   
155.18   Compliance
   
155.19   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
155.20   Interpretation
   
155.21   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
155.22   Enforcement, violation notice and penalties
Administration
   
155.30   Designation of local Administrator
   
155.31   Establishment of development permit
   
155.32   Duties and responsibilities of the local Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
155.40   General construction standards
   
155.41   Specific standards
   
155.42   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation
(unnumbered A Zones) and/or floodways
   
155.43   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
155.44   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
155.45   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter ‘A’
   
155.46   Critical facilities
Appeals and Variance Procedures
   
155.50   Appeals and variance procedures
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 155.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky has in KRS Chapter 100
delegated to local government units the authority to adopt regulations designed
to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
Therefore, the Jessamine County Fiscal Court of Jessamine County, Kentucky,
hereby adopts the following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of Jessamine County are subject to periodic
inundation which result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other floodprone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential homebuyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area;
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context specificially indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principal source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a
combination of both. In A ZONES, floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but
waves are usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year
flood, base flood elevations and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure, the use of which is incidental
to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a
minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation, and should be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay
sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   A1-30 AND AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood. Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between 1 and
3 feet ( usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between 1
and 3 feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are shown.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1–A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, AND AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designed AO or AH Zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map( FIRM) where the base flood depths range from 1 to 3 feet,
there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate, and velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized
by ponding or sheet flow.
   A99 ZONE. That part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   B AND X ZONES (SHADED). Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than 1 foot or
with contributing drainage area less than 1 square mile, and areas protected by
levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD). BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and AR/AO
that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a 1%
or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all 4 sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank, or other manmade
facility or infrastructure. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
materials or equipment.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls,
piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls. (See
freeboard requirements for residential and non-residential structures.)
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. That portion of a structure below the base flood elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by Jessamine County based
on specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-YEAR FLOOD have a moderate to
low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD, FLOODING, or FLOODWATER.
      (1)    A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal
waters; the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source; and/or mudslides (i.e., mudflows). See MUDSLIDES.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See FLOOD-
RELATED EROSION.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOODPRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power, which control development in floodprone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation
with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all
structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than 1 foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional
hydraulic and/or hydrologic analysis.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. FREEBOARD must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, and the like.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in § 155.50, Appeals and Variance
Procedures, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the Jessamine
County Fiscal Court will consider the fact that every newly constructed
structure adds to government responsibilities and remains a part of the
community for 50 to 100 hundred years. Structures that are permitted to be
constructed below the base flood elevation are subject during all those years
to increased risk of damage from floods, while future owners of the property
and the community as a whole are subject to all the costs, inconvenience,
danger, and suffering that those increased flood damages may incur. In
addition, future owners may purchase the property, unaware that it is subject
to potential flood damage, and can be insured only at very high flood insurance
rates.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e., county or municipality, that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
      (1)   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE coverage provides for the payment of a
claim for the cost to comply with state or community floodplain management laws
or ordinances after a direct physical loss by flood. When a building covered by
a standard flood insurance policy under the NFIP sustains a loss and the state
or community declares the building to be substantially or repetitively damaged,
ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the cost to elevate, floodproof, demolish,
or remove the building.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and non-residential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   KRS 151.250 - PLANS FOR DAMS, LEVEES, ETC. TO BE APPROVED AND PERMIT ISSUED
BY CABINET – (ENVIRONMENTAL AND PUBLIC PROTECTION CABINET).
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county, or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill or other obstruction (except
those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream, or
in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for such
work have been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction or improvement and such plans and
specifications have been approved in writing by the Cabinet and a permit
issued. However, the Cabinet by regulation may exempt those dams, embankments
or other obstructions which are not of such size or type as to require approval
by the Cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county or other political subdivision of the state
shall commence the filling of any area with earth, debris, or any other
material, or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building,
barrier or obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or
stream or in the floodway of the stream so that such filling, raising or
obstruction will in any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the
floodway of the stream unless plans and specifications for such work have been
submitted to and approved by the Cabinet and a permit issued as required in
division (1) above.
      (3)   Nothing in this definition is intended to give the Cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance or operation of any drainage district, ditch, or
system established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the
same except where such obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by
the Cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water
resources in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control
thereof so notified. The Department for Natural Resources through KRS Chapter
350 shall have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Chapter 151 concerning the
regulation of dams, levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills, or other
obstructions across or along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which
structures are permitted under KRS Chapter 350 for surface coal mining
operations.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMCs include the following
categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION – FILL (LOMR - F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM.
      (1)   A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
      (2)   For a levee system to be recognized, the following criteria must be
met:
         (a)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised).
         (b)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or
state agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a
community participating in the NFIP.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support,
or basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion
of construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure’s foundation
system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in 1 or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
“recreational vehicle” (see RECREATIONAL VEHICLE).
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into 2 or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The 4-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first 4 digits represent the map panel.The letter
suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised. (The
letter “A” is not used by FEMA, the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value) or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community’s FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river,
flow, or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a
dual condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water
on the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRMs. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of Jessamine County’s floodplain management
regulations and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of Jessamine County’s adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools, farm
structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than 6 months’ duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRMs and Digitally Referenced FIRMs
(DFIRMs). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). (See BASE FLOOD.) The flood that
has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any
flood zone that begins with the letter A is subject to the 100-YEAR FLOOD. Over
the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a flood
with the SFHA.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of PROBATION, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 CFR 60.3,
60.4, 60.5, and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community’s participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than 1 foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on 2 or more
separate occasions during a 10-year period where the value of damages equals or
exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure, beginning on
the date when the damage first occurred, or, 4 or more flood losses of $1,000
or more over the life of the structure, or, 3 or more flood losses over the
life of the structure that are equal to or greater than the current value of
the structure.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in floodprone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). That portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1–A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION (INCLUDES SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT AND OTHER PROPOSED
NEW DEVELOPMENT). The date a building permit is issued, provided the ACTUAL
START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground;
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other man-made
facilities or infrastructures. See BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into 2 or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.
      (1)   Any damage to a building for which the cost of repairs equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the damage occurring.
This term includes structures that are categorized as repetitive loss.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition:
         (a)   “Repair” is considered to occur when the first repair or
reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences.
         (b)   “Market value” shall be the value of the structure as listed on
the Jessamine County PVA assessment.
      (3)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any combination of reconstruction, alteration, or improvement to a
building, taking place during a 5-year period, in which the cumulative
percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the current market value of
the building. For the purposes of this definition, an improvement occurs when
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of
the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
      (2)   For the purpose of this definition, “market value” shall be the
value of the structure as listed on the Jessamine County PVA assessment.
      (3)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure; or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
SHADED X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. UNSHADED X ZONES (C zones on older
FIRMS) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is
less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.15 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA) and, as
determined by the Floodplain Administrator or other delegated, designated, or
qualified community official as determined by the Jessamine County Fiscal Court
from available technical studies, historical information, and other available
and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the Jessamine County
Fiscal Court which may be subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters that
can adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
citizens of Jessamine County.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.16 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS), for Jessamine
County dated June 2, 2011, with the accompanying flood insurance rate maps
(FIRMS), other supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations.
This (FIS) and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this
ordinance and may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow
implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to the Fiscal Court by
the Floodplain Administrator and are enacted by the Fiscal Court pursuant to
statutes governing land use management regulations. The FIS and or FIRM, and
are permanent records of Jessamine County and are on file and available for
review by the public during regular business hours at Jessamine County
Courthouse at 101 North Main Street, Nicholasville, KY 40356.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.17 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
155.31 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.18 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the Jessamine County Fiscal Court from taking such lawful action
as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.19 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.20 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.21 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the Fiscal Court of Jessamine County,
Kentucky, any officer or employee, the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the Federal
Insurance Administration, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.22 ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATION NOTICE AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See below.
   (C)   Notice of citation: notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly
authorized employee or agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable
cause to believe that a person has caused development to occur which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain
Administrator may issue a citation to the offender stating the violation, prior
notices of violation issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the
development into conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and
within what period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or
penalties are recommended. When a citation is received, the person to whom the
citation is issued shall respond to the citation within 7 days of the date the
citation is received by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set
forth in the citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or
requesting a hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the
citation is issued does not respond to the citation within 7 days, that person
shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination
that a violation occurred shall be considered final.
   (D)   Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with granting of a variance or special
exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined no less than $500 or imprisoned for not more
than 180 days, or both, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Floodplain
Administrator from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.30 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Fiscal Court of Jessamine County, Kentucky hereby appoints the
Administrative Officer of the Jessamine County-Wilmore Joint Planning
Commission to administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter
by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions,
and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.31 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
155.16. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of local
Administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be floodproofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential floodproofed structure will meet
the floodproofing criteria in §§
155.41(B) and
155.43(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or floodproofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, and A zones
where the community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and
floodproofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 5-31-2011)
§ 155.32 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed, authorized
and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions. The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
shall include, but not be limited to the following:
   (A)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
      (1)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained:
review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal or state law, including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C 1334;
      (3)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner;
      (4)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than 1 foot at any point.
   (B)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood elevation
data has not been provided in accordance with §
155.16, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
155.40 through
155.46. Any such information shall be submitted to the Jessamine County Fiscal
Court for adoption.
   (C)   Notification of other agencies.
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
      (2)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
      (3)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
   (D)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
      (1)   Certification required by §
155.41(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
155.31(B);
      (2)   Certification required by §
155.41(B) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown on
a completed and certified floodprooofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in accordance with §
155.31(B);
      (3)   Certification required by §
155.41(C) (elevated structures);
      (4)   Certification of elevation required by §
155.44(A) (subdivision standards);
      (5)   Certification required by §
155.41(E) (floodway encroachments);
      (6)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (7)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (8)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this chapter
as specified in §
155.22.
   (E)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for example,
where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions.
      (1)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
155.50(C)(2);
      (2)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
155.16, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonable
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §
155.40 through
155.46;
      (3)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
155.41(B);
      (4)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open for
public inspection.
   (F)   Right of entry.
      (1)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes such building, structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Administrator may enter such
building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed upon the Administrator by this chapter.
      (2)   If such structure or premises are occupied, he or she shall first
present proper credentials and request entry. If such building, structure, or
premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such building,
structure, or premise, to request entry.
      (3)   If entry is refused, the Administrator shall have recourse to every
remedy provided by law to secure entry.
      (4)   When the Administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building,
structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Administrator for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
   (G)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the
person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be
resumed.
   (H)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued under the
provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by the
Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
   (I)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator’s staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render himself or herself personally liable, and is hereby relieved
from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties. Any suit brought against any officer, employee, or member
because of such act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision
of this chapter shall be defended by the appropriate legal authority until the
final termination of the proceedings.
   (J)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 155.40 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter;
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be undertaken only if said nonconformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
155.16, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated no lower than 2 feet
above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used
to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with standards of
division (C) below.
         (a)   In an AO zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least 2 feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is
specified.
         (b)   In an A zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated 2 feet above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include but are not limited to detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, use
of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, best
supportable and reasonable judgment in the event no data can be produced. Title
401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060,
Section 5(5)a, states as a part of the technical requirements for a state
floodplain permit: The applicant shall provide cross sections for determining
floodway boundaries(and thereby Base Flood Elevations) at any proposed
construction site where FEMA maps are not available. All cross sections shall
be referenced to mean sea level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no
more than + five-tenths (0.5) foot. Cross sections elevations shall be taken at
those points which represent significant breaks in slope and at points where
hydraulic characteristics of the base floodplain change. Each cross section
shall extend across the entire base floodplain and shall be in the number and
at the locations specified by the cabinet. If necessary to ensure that
significant flood damage will not occur, the cabinet may require additional
cross sections or specific site elevations which extend beyond those needed for
making routine regulatory floodway boundary calculations.
         (c)   In all other zones, elevated 2 feet above the base flood
elevation.
      (2)   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor including basement shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community building inspection
department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for non-residential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (A) above or together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be floodproofed below an elevation 2 feet above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment,
and ductwork, elevated at least 2 feet above the level of the base flood
elevation; or
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
155.31(A)(3).
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) below.
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below an
elevation 2 feet above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin 1-
93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Have a minimum of 2 openings with a total net area of not less
than 1 square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding.
The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than 1 foot above grade. Openings
may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other coverings or devices
provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwater.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings (e.g.) that include fully
enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base
flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of 2 openings having a total net area of not
less than 1 square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than 1 foot above
foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher than
the exterior grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   (a)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed
on sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction
following appropriate Underwriters Laboratory Inc. requirements, including
elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
            1.   On individual lots or parcels;
            2.   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            3.   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
            4.   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            5.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; or
            6.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of
a flood.
         (b)   All manufactured homes must be:
            1.   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated at least 2 feet above the level
of the base flood elevation; and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Excepting manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage
as a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that:
         (a)   The manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement,
so that either the:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated at least
2 feet above the level of the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A,
A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must
either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 90 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured homes.
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
licensed and insured in accordance with the State of Kentucky motor vehicle
regulations, is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only
by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
155.16 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge;
      (2)   If this division (E) is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §§
155.40 through
155.46.
      (3)   Prohibit the placement of manufactured homes (mobile homes), except
in an existing manufactured homes (mobile homes) park or subdivision. A
replacement manufactured home may be placed on a lot in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision provided the anchoring standards of §
155.40(B) and elevation standards of division (A) above are met.
   (F)   Standards for utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate:
         (a)   Infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
         (b)   Discharge from the systems into flood waters.
      (2)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them, or contamination from them during flooding.
   (G)   Structures elevated on fill. A residential or non-residential
structure may be constructed on permanent fill in accordance with Division of
Water regulations.
   (H)   Vegetative buffer strips (riparian zones). For all activities
involving construction within 25 feet of the channel, the following criteria
shall be met:
      (1)   A natural vegetative buffer strip shall be preserved within at
least 25 feet of the mean high water level of the channel.
      (2)   Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during the
construction of an appropriate use, a vegetated buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction.
      (3)   The use of native riparian vegetation is preferred in the buffer
strip. Access through this buffer strip shall be provided for stream
maintenance purposes.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.42 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION
(UNNUMBERED A ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
155.16, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than 1 foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or floodproofed to elevations established in accordance with §
155.16.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.43 STANDARD FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
155.16 are areas designated as shallow flood in areas. These areas have flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of 1 to 3 feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is unpredictable
and intermediate; therefore, the following provision may apply
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of the residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation in Zone AO the flood depth specified on
the Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if
no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor , including basement, Shall be
elevated no less than 2 feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth
specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In
Zone AO, if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement,
shall be elevated no less than 2 feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of 1 foot so that any
space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required as stated in §
155.41(B).
(Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.44 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards;
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or 5 acres, whichever is the
lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (F)    All new subdivision proposals shall include emergency access that
will be subject to no more than six inches of flood waters during the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood).
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.45 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER ‘A’.
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than 1 foot above grade,
total openings are to be 1 square inch per 1 square foot of floor area, at
least 2 openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood resistant materials below a level 2 feet above the base
flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking;
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
§ 155.46 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated 1 foot or more above the level of the base flood
elevation at the site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 155.50 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nature of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the Jessamine County Fiscal Court to help protect
its citizens from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of
the cost of insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that
variances from the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood
ordinance are quite rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood
loss and damage can only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore,
the variance guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain
multiple provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted.
The criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board. The Fiscal Court of
Jessamine County shall establish an Appeals Board consisting of Jessamine
County-Wilmore, Board of Adjustments.
   (C)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
      (1)   The Board of Adjustments shall hear and decide requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or
determinations made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustments or
any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the Circuit Court, as provided in
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Appeals/variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the
Board of Adjustments shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant
factors, all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Adjustments may attach
such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further
the purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction,
substantial improvement, and other proposed new development to be erected on a
lot of 1/2 acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of §§
155.30 through
155.32 and
155.40 through
155.46 have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond 1/2 acre,
the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. MINIMUM NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the Jessamine County Fiscal Court need not
grant permission for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever
elevation the applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the
Jessamine County Fiscal Court believes will both provide relief and preserve
the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. In the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be
made that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not
destroy the historic character and design of the structure.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in §
155.05 under “public safety and nuisance”), cause fraud or victimization of the
public (as defined in §
155.05) or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (6)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (7)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
      (8)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of division (F) below
are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected by
methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not result
in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the Jessamine County Recorder and shall be
recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected
parcel of land.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in the community's biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures (see definition in §
155.05) upon determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not
preclude the structure’s continued designation as an historic structure and the
variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design
of the structure.
   (H)   No impact certification within the floodway. Variances shall not be
issued for any mapped or designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-31-2011)
CHAPTER 156: STORMWATER: POST-CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Findings of fact
   
156.002   Purpose
   
156.003   Applicability
   
156.004   Compatibility with other permit and ordinance requirements
   
156.005   Development of a Best Management Practices Manual (BMP)
   
156.006   Definitions
Permit Procedures and Requirements
   
156.020   Permit required
   
156.021   Application requirements
   
156.022   Application review fees
   
156.023   Application procedure
   
156.024   Permit duration
Waivers to Stormwater Management Requirements
   
156.040   Waivers for providing stormwater management
General Performance Criteria for Stormwater Management
   
156.050   Stormwater criteria
Basic Stormwater Management Design Criteria
   
156.060   Minimum control requirements
   
156.061   Site design feasibility
   
156.062   Conveyance issues
   
156.063   Landscaping plans required
   
156.064   Maintenance agreements
   
156.065   Non-structural stormwater practice
Requirements for Stormwater Management Plan Approval
   
156.080   SWMPL required for all developments
   
156.081   SWMPL requirements
   
156.082   Performance security
Construction Inspection
   
156.090   Notice of construction commencement
   
156.091   As-built plans
   
156.092   Landscaping and stabilization requirements
Maintenance and Repair of Stormwater Facilities
   
156.100   Maintenance easement
   
156.101   Maintenance covenants
   
156.102   Dedication for maintenance
   
156.103   Requirements for maintenance covenant
   
156.104   Inspection of SWMPRs
   
156.105   Right-of-entry for inspection
   
156.106   Records of installation and maintenance activities
   
156.107   Failure to maintain practices
Enforcement and Penalties
   
156.120   Violations
   
156.121   Notice of violation (NOV)
   
156.122   Stop work orders
   
156.123   All other remedies and injunctive relief
   
156.124   Lien rights
   
156.125   Appeal procedures
 
   
156.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Stormwater: Illicit Discharges and Connections, see
Ch. 152
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   It is hereby determined that:
      (1)   Land development projects and associated increased in impervious
cover alter the hydrologic response of local watersheds and increase stormwater
runoff rates and volumes, flooding, stream channel erosion, and sediment
transport and deposition;
      (2)   The stormwater runoff contributes to increased quantities of
waterborne pollutants;
      (3)   Stormwater runoff, solid erosions and non-point source pollution
can be controlled and minimized through the regulation of stormwater runoff
from development sites; and
      (4)   Buffers adjacent to stream systems provide numerous environmental
protection and resource management benefits which can include: restoring and
maintaining the chemical, physical and biological integrity of the water
resources; removing pollutants delivered in urban stormwater; reducing erosion
and controlling sedimentation; stabilizing stream banks; providing
infiltrations of stormwater runoff; maintaining base flow of streams;
contributing the organic matter that is a source of food and energy to the
aquatic ecosystem; providing tree canopy to share streams and promote desirable
aquatic organism; providing riparian wildlife habitat; and furnishing scenic
value and recreational opportunity.
   (B)   Therefore, the Jessamine County Fiscal Court (JCFC) establishes this
set of water quality and quantity policies applicable to all surface waters to
provide reasonable guidance for the regulation of stormwater runoff for the
purpose of protecting local water resources from degradation and to protect and
maintain the native vegetation in riparian and wetland areas. It is determined
that the regulation of stormwater runoff discharges from land development
projects and other construction activities in order to control and minimize
increases in stormwater runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion, stream channel
erosion, and non-point source pollution associated with stormwater runoff is in
the public interest and will prevent threats to public health and safety.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Minimize increases in stormwater runoff from any development in order
to reduce flooding, siltation, increases in stream temperature, and stream bank
erosion and maintain the integrity of stream channels;
   (B)   Minimize increases in non-point source pollution caused by stormwater
runoff from development which would otherwise degrade local water quality;
   (C)   Minimize the total annual volume of surface water runoff which flows
from any specific site during and following development to not exceed the pre-
development hydrologic regime to the practicable extent;
   (D)   Reduce stormwater runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion and non-point
source pollution, wherever possible, through stormwater management controls and
to ensure that these management controls are properly maintained and pose no
apparent threat to public safety;
   (E)   Establish minimal acceptable requirements for the design of buffers to
protect the streams, wetlands and floodplains of the county; and
   (F)   Protect the water quality of watercourses, reservoirs, lakes, riparian
and aquatic ecosystems, and other significant water resources within this
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall be applicable to all subdivision or site plan
applications, unless eligible for an exemption or granted a waiver by the
Jessamine County-City of Wilmore Joint Planning Commission (Planning
Commission) under the specifications of §
156.040 of this chapter. This chapter also applies to land development
activities that are smaller than 1 acre if such activities are part of a larger
common plan of development that meets the following applicability criteria,
even though distinct land development activities may take place at different
times on different schedules. In addition, all plans must also be reviewed by
the Planning Commission staff to ensure that established water quality
standards will be maintained during and after development of the site.
   (B)   To prevent the adverse impacts of stormwater runoff, the JCFC has
developed a set of performance standards that must be met at new development
sites. These standards apply to any construction activity disturbing 1 or more
acre(s) of land. The following activities may be exempt from these stormwater
performance criteria:
      (1)   Any logging and agricultural activity which is consistent with an
approved soil conservation plan or a timber management plan prepared or
approved by the applicable governmental agency.
      (2)   Additions or modifications to existing single-family and duplex
structures.
      (3)   Developments that do not disturb more than 1 acre of land provided
they are not part of a larger common development plan.
      (4)   Repairs to any stormwater treatment facility deemed necessary by
the JCFC.
      (5)   When a site development plan is submitted with a proposed density
equal to or less than the existing density of the land proposed for
development.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.004 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER PERMIT AND ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The requirements of this chapter should be considered minimum requirements,
and where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions different from
those imposed by any other applicable ordinance, rule or regulation, or other
provision of law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher
protective standards for human health, or the environment shall be considered
to take precedence.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.005 DEVELOPMENT OF A BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES MANUAL (BMP).
   (A)   The JCFC may furnish additional policy, criteria and information
including specifications and standards, for the proper implementation of the
requirements of this chapter and may provide such information in the form of a
BMP Manual.
   (B)   This Manual will include a list of acceptable stormwater management
practices, including the specific design criteria and operation and maintenance
requirements for each stormwater practice. The manual may be updated and
expanded from time to time, at the discretion of the JCFC, based on
improvements in engineering, science, monitoring and local maintenance
experience. Stormwater management practices that are designed and constructed
in accordance with these design and sizing criteria will be presumed to meet
the minimum water quality performance standards.
   (C)   In the absence of a BMP Manual adopted by the JCFC, the latest edition
of "Best Management Practices (BMPs) for Controlling Erosion, Sediment, and
Pollutant Runoff; From Construction Sites" shall be used. This manual is
produced by the University of Kentucky Transportation Center.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCELERATED EROSION. Erosion caused by development activities that exceeds
the natural processes by which the surface of the land is worn away by the
action of water, wind, or chemical action.
   APPLICANT.  Any individual or entity that is a property owner and any agent
of a property owner (e.g., developer, and the like) that files an application
for a stormwater management permit.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   BMP MANUAL. In the absence of a BMP Manual adopted by the JCFC, the latest
edition of "Best Management Practices (BMPs) for Controlling Erosion Sediment,
and Pollutant Runoff; From Construction Sites" shall be used. This manual is
produced by the University of Kentucky Transportation Center.
   BUFFER. A vegetated area, including trees, shrubs and herbaceous vegetation,
which exists or is established to protect a stream system, lake, or reservoir.
Alteration of this natural area is strictly limited.
   BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having walls and a
roof, designed for the shelter of any person, animal, or property, and
occupying more than 100 square feet of area.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks
that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
   DEDICATION. The deliberate appropriation of property by its owner for
general public use.
   DETENTION. The temporary storage of storm runoff in a stormwater management
practice with the goals of controlling peak discharge rates and providing
gravity settling of pollutants.
   DETENTION FACILITY. A detention basin or alternative structure designed for
the purpose of temporary storage of stream flow or surface runoff and gradual
release of stored water at controlled rates.
   DEVELOPER. A person or entity who undertakes land disturbance activities.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   The improvement of property involving land disturbance;
      (2)   Subdivision, or the division of a tract or parcel of land into 2 or
more parcels;
      (3)   The preparation of land for any of the above purposes.
   DRAINAGE EASEMENT. A legal right granted by an owner of property to a
grantee allowing the use of private land for stormwater management purposes.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN. A plan that is designed to minimize the
accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site during construction
activities.
   HIGH QUALITY WATERS OR HQW. Those "waters of the Commonwealth" that have
been categorized by the Kentucky Division of Water as high quality pursuant to
the requirements of 401 KAR 10:030, § 1(3).
   HOTSPOT. An area where land use or activities generate highly contaminated
runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in
stormwater.
   HYDROLOGIC SOIL GROUP (HSG). A natural resource conservation service
classification system in which soils are categorized into 4 runoff potential
groups. The groups range from A soils, with high permeability and little runoff
production, to D soils, which have low permeability rates and produce much more
runoff.
   IMPERVIOUS COVER. Those surfaces that cannot effectively infiltrate rainfall
(e.g., building rooftops, pavement, sidewalks, driveways, and the like).
   INDUSTRIAL STORMWATER PERMIT. A national pollutant discharge elimination
system permit issued to a commercial industry or group of industries which
regulates the pollutant levels associated with industrial stormwater discharges
or specifies on-site pollution control strategies.
   INFILTRATION. The process of percolating stormwater into the subsoil.
   INFILTRATION FACILITY. Any structure or device designed to infiltrate
retained water to the subsurface. These facilities may be above grade or below
grade.
   JESSAMINE COUNTY MS4 COMMITTEE (JCMS4C). A committee appointed by the
Jessamine County Fiscal Court whose purpose is to monitor the Jessamine County
MS4 program.
   JURISDICTIONAL WETLAND. An area that is inundated or saturated by surface
water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a
prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil
conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation.
   LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY.  Any activity which changes the volume or peak
flow discharge rate of rainfall runoff from the land surface. This may include
the grading, digging, cutting, scraping, or excavating of soil, placement of
fill materials, paving, construction, substantial removal of vegetation, or any
activity which bares soil or rock or involves the diversion or piping of any
natural or man-made watercourse.
   MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT. A legally recorded document that acts as a property
deed restriction, and which provides for long-term maintenance of stormwater
management plan.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). The program
administered by the United States Environmental Protection Agency to eliminate
or reduce pollutant discharges to the water of the United States. In Kentucky,
known as the Kentucky Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (KPDES).
   NON-POINT SOURCE POLLUTION.  Pollution from any source other than from any
discernible, confined, and discrete conveyances, and shall include, but not be
limited to, pollutants from agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction,
subsurface disposal and urban, runoff sources.
   ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOODPLAIN. The area of land adjacent to a stream that is
subject to inundation during a storm event which has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   ON-SITE FACILITY. A stormwater management measure located within the subject
property boundary described in the permit application for land development
activity.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, sewage
sludge, garbage, chemical, biological or radioactive materials, heat, wrecked
or discarded equipment, rock, sand, soil, industrial, municipal or agricultural
waste, and any substance resulting from the development, processing, or
recovery of any natural resource which may be discharged into water. (See KRS
224.01-010(35))
   POLLUTION. Any contamination or alteration of the physical, chemical, or
biological properties of any waters that will render the waters harmful or
detrimental to: public health, safety or welfare; domestic, commercial,
industrial, agricultural, recreational, or other legitimate beneficial uses;
livestock, wild animals, or birds; fish or other aquatic life.
   RECHARGE.  The replenishment of underground water reserves.
   RUNOFF. The water resulting from precipitation that is not absorbed by the
soil.
   SEDIMENT. Soils or other surficial materials transported or deposited by the
action of wind, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
   STOP WORK ORDER. A cease and desist order issued which requires that all
construction activity on a site be stopped.
   STORMWATER. Means stormwater runoff, snow melt runoff, surface runoff and
drainage.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT. The use of structural or non-structural practices
that are designed to reduce stormwater runoff pollutant loads, discharge
volumes, peak flow discharge rates and detrimental changes in stream
temperature that affect water quality and habitat.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN (SWMPL). An overall plan for a development which
uses structural or non-structural practices designed to reduce stormwater
runoff pollutant loads, discharge volumes, peak flow discharge rates and
detrimental changes in stream temperature that affect water quality and habitat
meeting the requirements of this chapter.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (SWMPR).  Measures, either structural or
nonstructural, that are determined to be the most effective, practical means of
preventing or reducing stormwater runoff pollutant loads, discharge volumes,
peak flow discharge rates and detrimental changes in stream temperature that
affect water quality and habitat meeting the requirements of this chapter.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A site-specific, written
document required for submission of the KPDES Notice of Intent (NOI) and this
chapter. The SWPPP is utilized during construction and for post-construction
conditions to identify potential sources of pollution, describe practices to
reduce pollutants in stormwater discharges, and identify implementation
procedures to maintain compliance with the current general permit.
   STORMWATER RETROFIT.  A stormwater management practice or plan designed for
an existing development site that previously had either no stormwater
management plan in place or a plan inadequate to meet the stormwater management
requirements of this chapter for the site.
   STORMWATER TREATMENT PRACTICES (SWTPRs).  Measures, either structural or
nonstructural, that are determined to be the most effective, practical means of
preventing or reducing point source or non-point source pollution inputs to
stormwater runoff and water bodies.
   WATERS OF THE COMMONWEALTH. Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, lakes,
ponds, impounding reservoirs, springs, wells, marshes, and all other bodies of
surface or underground water, natural or artificial, situated wholly or partly
within or bordering upon the Commonwealth or within its jurisdiction. (See KRS
224.01-010(33))
   WATER QUALITY VOLUME (WQV). The storage needed to capture and treat 80% of
the average annual stormwater runoff volume. This calculation is explained in
the Stormwater Runoff Quality Treatment Standard included in the BMP Manual.
   WATERCOURSE. A permanent or intermittent stream or other body of water,
either natural or man-made, which gathers or carries surface water.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
PERMIT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 156.020 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No property owner or developer shall receive any of the building, grading or
other land development permits required for land disturbance activities without
first meeting the requirements of this chapter prior to commencing the proposed
activity.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.021 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Unless specifically excluded by this chapter, any property owner or
developer desiring a permit for a land disturbance activity shall submit to the
Planning Commission a permit application. A copy of the application form can be
obtained from the Planning Commission office.
   (B)   Unless otherwise exempted by this chapter, a building permit, approved
construction plans, or grading permit application must be accompanied by the
following in order that the permit application be considered: a SWMPL; a
maintenance agreement; and all applicable nonrefundable permit review fees.
   (C)   The SWMPL shall be prepared to meet the requirements of §
156.050 of this chapter, the maintenance agreement shall be prepared to meet
the requirements of §§
156.100 through
156.107 of this chapter, and fees shall be those established by the JCFC.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.022 APPLICATION REVIEW FEES.
   The fee for review of any land development application hereunder shall be
based on the fee structure established by the JCFC.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.023 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Applications for permits must be filed with the Planning Commission on
any regular business day.
   (B)   Permit applications shall include the following: 2 copies of the
SWMPL, 2 copies of the maintenance agreement, and any required review fees.
   (C)   Within 21 business days of the receipt of a complete permit
application, including all documents as required by this chapter, the Planning
Commission staff shall inform the applicant whether the application, plan, and
maintenance agreement are approved or disapproved.
   (D)   If the permit application, SWMPL, or maintenance agreement are
disapproved, the applicant may revise and resubmit the document. If additional
information is submitted, the Planning Commission staff shall have 21 business
days from the date the additional information is received to inform the
applicant that the plan and maintenance agreement are either approved or
disapproved.
   (E)   If the permit application, final SWMPL, and maintenance agreement are
approved by the Planning Commission staff, all appropriate permits shall be
issued.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.029 PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits issued under this section shall be valid from the date of issuance
through the date the Planning Commission staff notifies the permit holder that
all stormwater management practices (SWMPRs) have passed the final inspection
required under permit condition.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
WAIVERS TO STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS
§ 156.040 WAIVERS FOR PROVIDING STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Every applicant shall provide for stormwater management as required by
this chapter, unless a written request is filed to waive this requirement.
Requests to waive the SWMPL requirements shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission for approval.
   (B)   The minimum requirements for stormwater management may be waived in
whole or in part upon written request of the applicant, provided that at least
1 of the following conditions applies:
      (1)   It can be demonstrated that the proposed development is not likely
to impair attainment of the objectives of this chapter.
      (2)   Provisions are made to manage stormwater by an off-site facility.
The off-site facility is required to be in place, to be designed and adequately
sized to provide a level of stormwater control that is equal to or greater than
that which would be afforded by on-site practices and there is a legally
obligated entity responsible for long-term operation and maintenance of the
SWMPR.
      (3)   The Planning Commission finds that meeting the minimum on-site
management requirements is not feasible due to the natural or existing physical
characteristics of a site.
      (4)   Non-structural practices will be used on-site that reduce the
generation of stormwater from the site, the size and cost of stormwater storage
and the pollutants generated at the site. These non-structural practices (LID
or other) are explained in detail in the most current edition of the BMP manual
and the amount of credit available for using such practices shall be determined
by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
GENERAL PERFORMANCE CRITERIA FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
§ 152.050 STORMWATER CRITERIA.
   Unless judged by the Planning Commission to be exempt or granted a waiver,
the following performance criteria shall be addressed for stormwater management
at all sites:
   (A)   All site designs shall establish SWMPRs to control the peak flow rates
of stormwater discharge associated with specified design storms and reduce the
generation of stormwater. These practices should seek to utilize pervious areas
for stormwater treatment and to infiltrate stormwater runoff from driveways,
sidewalks, rooftops, parking lots, and landscaped areas to the extent
practical.
   (B)   Stormwater management measures shall be required that are designed,
built, and maintained to treat, filter, flocculate, infiltrate, screen, evapo-
transpire, harvest and/or reuse stormwater runoff in order to manage stormwater
runoff quality and quantity.
   (C)   Structural and non-structural controls may be used to obtain permanent
stormwater management over the life of the property's use. Structural
stormwater controls include, but are not limited to grass swales, filter
strips, infiltration basins, detention ponds, stormwater wetlands, natural
filtration areas, sand filters, and rain gardens. Nonstructural BMPs include,
but are not limited to: open spaces, vegetated buffers, natural infiltration,
and low impact development. See the BMP Manual for additional information.
These controls shall be capable of treating runoff for the 80th percentile
precipitation event which is 0.58 inches for Jessamine County.
   (D)   New development and redevelopment projects shall not discharge
stormwater directly into a jurisdictional wetland or local water body without
treatment as defined in this division.
   (E)   Certain industrial sites are required to prepare and implement a
SWPPP, and shall file a notice of intent (NOI) under the provisions of the
national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) general permit. The
SWPPP requirement applies to both existing and new industrial sites.
   (F)   All new development and redevelopment plans shall, to the extent
practical, maintain the existing forested buffer along all streams on site.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
BASIC STORMWATER MANAGEMENT DESIGN CRITERIA
§ 156.060 MINIMUM CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All SWMPRs will be designed so that the specific storm frequency
storage volumes (e.g., water quality, 2 year, 10 year, 100 year) as identified
in the current Subdivision Regulations are met, unless the Planning Commission
grants the applicant a waiver or the applicant is exempt from such
requirements.
   (B)   The standard for treating runoff shall be the 80th Percentile
Precipitation Event as noted in the previous division of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.061 SITE DESIGN FEASIBILITY.
   (A)   SWMPRs for a site shall be chosen based on the physical conditions of
the site. Among the factors that should be considered:
      (1)   Topography;
      (2)   Maximum drainage area;
      (3)   Depth to water table;
      (4)   Soils; depth to rock;
      (5)   Slopes;
      (6)   Terrain;
      (7)   Location in relation to environmentally-sensitive features.
   (B)   Applicants shall consult the BMP manual for guidance on the factors
that determine site design feasibility when selecting a SWMPR.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.062 CONVEYANCE ISSUES.
   (A)   All SWMPLs shall be designed to convey stormwater to allow for the
removal of pollutants and reduction in flow volumes and velocities. This shall
include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Maximizing flow paths from inflow points to outflow points;
      (2)   Protection of inlet and outfall structures;
      (3)   Elimination of erosive flow velocities; and
      (4)   Providing underdrain systems, where applicable.
   (B)   The BMP Manual shall provide detailed guidance on the requirements for
conveyance for each of the approved SWMPRs.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.063 LANDSCAPING PLANS REQUIRED.
   All SWMPLs must have a landscaping plan detailing both the vegetation to be
in the practice and how and who will manage and maintain this vegetation.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.064 MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS.
   All SWMPLs shall have an enforceable operation and maintenance agreement to
ensure the system functions as designed. This agreement will include any and
all maintenance easements required to access and inspect the SWTPRs or SWMPRs,
and to perform routine maintenance as necessary to ensure proper functioning of
the SWTPRs and/or SWMPRs. In addition, a legally binding covenant, running with
the land, specifying the parties responsible for the proper maintenance of all
SWTPRs and/or SWMPRs shall be secured prior to issuance of any permits for land
disturbance activities.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.065 NON-STRUCTURAL STORMWATER PRACTICE.
   The use of non-structural SWTPRs and SWMPRs are encouraged in order to
minimize the reliance on structural practices. Credit in the form of reductions
in the amount of stormwater that must be managed can be earned through the use
of non-structural practices that reduce the generation of stormwater and/or
pollutants from the site. These non-structural practices are explained in the
BMP Manual and applicants wishing to obtain credit for use of non-structural
practices must ensure that these practices are documented and remain unaltered
by subsequent property owners.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
REQUIREMENTS FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN APPROVAL
§ 156.080 SWMPL REQUIRED FOR ALL DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Unless a waiver has been granted pursuant to §
156.040 of this chapter, no application for development will be approved unless
it includes a SWMPL detailing in concept how runoff and associated water
quality impacts resulting from the development will be controlled or managed.
This plan must indicate whether stormwater will be managed on-site or off-site
and, if on-site, the general location and type of practices.
   (B)   The SWMPL may be referred for comment to other interested agencies,
and any comments must be addressed in a final stormwater management plan. This
final plan must be signed by a licensed professional engineer (PE), who will
verify that the design of all SWMPRs meet the submittal requirements outlined
in the BMP Manual. No building permit, approved construction plans, or grading
permit shall be issued until a satisfactory final SWMPL, or a waiver thereof,
shall have undergone a review and been approved by the Planning Commission
staff after determining that the plan or waiver is consistent with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.081 SWMPL REQUIREMENTS.
   A SWMPL shall be required with all permit applications and will include
sufficient information (e.g., maps, hydrologic calculations, and the like) to
evaluate the environmental characteristics of the project site, the potential
impacts of all proposed development of the site, both present and future, on
the water resources, and the effectiveness and acceptability of the measures
proposed for managing stormwater generated at the project site. The intent of
this planning process is to determine the type of SWMPRs necessary for the
proposed project, and ensure adequate planning for management practices
necessary for the proposed project, and ensure adequate planning for management
of stormwater runoff from future development. To accomplish this goal the
following information shall be included in the SWMPL:
   (A)   Contact information. The name, address, and telephone number of all
persons having a legal interest in the property and Property Valuation
Administrator's parcel number of the property or properties affected.
   (B)   Topographic base map. A topographic base map of the site which extends
a minimum of 200 feet beyond the limits of the proposed development and
indicates existing surface water drainage including streams, ponds, culverts,
ditches, and wetlands; current land use including all existing structures;
locations of utilities, roads, and easements; and significant natural and
manmade features not otherwise shown. This map shall be of a scale not to
exceed 1" = 100' and a maximum contour interval of 2 feet.
   (C)   A map (or maps) indicating the location of existing and proposed
buildings, roads, parking areas, utilities, structural stormwater management
and sediment control facilities. The map(s) will also clearly show proposed
land use with tabulation of the percentage of surface area to be adapted to
various uses; drainage patterns; locations of utilities, roads and easements;
the limits of clearing and grading; a written description of the site plan and
justification of proposed changes in natural conditions may also be required.
   (D)   Sufficient engineering analysis to show that the proposed SWMPRs are
capable of controlling runoff from the site in compliance with this chapter and
the specifications of the BMP Manual.
   (E)   Calculations. Any applicable hydrologic and hydraulic design
calculations for the pre-development and post-development conditions for the
design storms specified in this chapter or in the BMP Manual. Such calculations
shall include:
      (1)   Description of the design storm frequency, intensity and duration;
      (2)   Time of concentration;
      (3)   Soil curve numbers or runoff coefficients;
      (4)   Peak runoff rates and total runoff volumes for each watershed area;
      (5)   Infiltration rates, where applicable;
      (6)   Culvert capacities;
      (7)   Flow velocities; and
      (8)   Data on the increase in rate and volume of runoff for the design
storms referenced in the Subdivision Regulations.
   (F)   Soils information. If a stormwater management control practice depends
on the hydrologic properties of soils (e.g., infiltration basins), then a soils
report shall be submitted. The soils report shall be based on on-site boring
logs or soil pit profiles. The number and location of required soil borings or
soil sites shall be sufficient to determine the suitability and distribution of
soil types present at the location of the control measure.
   (G)   Maintenance and repair plan. Unless the JCFC accepts dedication of
SWMPRs, the design and planning of all SWMPRs shall include detailed
maintenance and repair procedures to ensure their continued function, these
plans will identify the parts or components of a SWMPR that need to be
maintained and the equipment and skills or training necessary. Provisions for
the periodic review and evaluation of the effectiveness of the maintenance
program and the need for revisions or additional maintenance procedures shall
be included in the SWMPL.
   (H)   Landscaping plan. The applicant must present a detailed plan for
management of vegetation at the site after construction is finished, including
who will be responsible for the maintenance of vegetation at the site and what
practices will be employed to ensure that adequate vegetative cover is
preserved.
   (I)   Maintenance easements. The applicant must ensure access to all SWMPRs
at the site for the purpose of inspection and repair by securing all the
maintenance easements needed on a permanent basis. These easements will be
recorded with the plat in the Jessamine County Clerk's office and will remain
in effect even with transfer of title to the property.
   (J)   Maintenance agreement. Unless the JCFC accepts dedication of SWMPRs,
the applicant must execute an easement and an inspection and maintenance
agreement binding on all subsequent owners of land served by an on-site
stormwater management measure in accordance with the specifications of this
chapter.
   (K)   Erosion and sediment control plans for construction of SWMPRs. The
applicant must prepare an erosion and sediment control plan for all
construction activities related to implementing any on-site SWMPRs.
   (L)   Other environmental permits. The applicant shall assure that all other
applicable environmental permits have been acquired for the site prior to
approval of the final SWMPL.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.082 PERFORMANCE SECURITY.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall require the submittal of an irrevocable
letter of credit (LOC) or subdivision bond payable to JCFC, as performance
security prior to recording of final plats in order to insure that the SWMPRs
are installed by the permit holder as required by the approved SWMPL. The
amount of the installation performance security shall be the total estimated
construction cost of the SWMPL approved under the permit, plus 25%. The
performance security shall contain forfeiture provisions for failure to
complete work specified in the SWMPL.
   (B)   The installation performance security shall be released in full only
upon submission of “as-built plans” and written certification by a licensed
professional engineer that the SWMPRs have been installed in accordance with
the approved SWMPL and other applicable provisions of this chapter. The
Planning Commission staff will make a final inspection of the SWMPRs to ensure
that they are in compliance with the approved SWMPL and the provisions of this
chapter. Provisions for a partial pro-rata release of the performance security
based on the completion of various development stages can be done at the
discretion of the JCFC upon recommendation of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION
§ 156.090 NOTICE OF CONSTRUCTION COMMENCEMENT.
   (A)   The applicant must notify the Planning Commission staff in advance
before the commencement of construction. Regular inspections of the SWMPL
construction shall be conducted by the staff of the Planning Commission or its
designee who has been approved by the JCFC. All inspections shall be documented
and written reports prepared that contain the following information:
      (1)   The date and location of the inspection;
      (2)   Whether construction is in compliance with the approved SWMPL;
      (3)   Variations from the approved construction specifications; and
      (4)   Any violations that exist.
   (B)   If any violations are found, the applicant shall be notified in
writing of the nature of the violation and the required corrective actions. No
added work shall proceed until any violations are corrected and all work
previously completed has received approval by the Planning Commission staff.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.091 AS-BUILT PLANS.
   All applicants are required to submit actual "as-built" plans for any SWMPRs
after final construction is completed. The plan must show the final design
specifications for all SWMPRs and must be certified by a professional engineer.
A final inspection by the Planning Commission staff and recommendation to JCFC
is required before the release of any performance securities by JCFC can occur.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.092 LANDSCAPING AND STABILIZATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Any area of land from which the natural vegetative cover has been either
partially or wholly cleared or removed by development activities shall be
revegetated within 14 days from the substantial completion of such clearing and
construction. The following criteria shall apply to revegetation efforts:
   (A)   Reseeding must be done with an annual or perennial cover crop
accompanied by placement of straw mulch or its equivalent of sufficient
coverage to control erosion until such time as the cover crop is established
over 90% of the seeded area.
   (B)   Replanting with native woody and herbaceous vegetation must be
accompanied by placement of straw mulch or its equivalent of sufficient
coverage to control erosion until the plantings are established and are capable
of controlling erosion.
   (C)   Any area of revegetation must exhibit survival of a minimum of 75% of
the cover crop throughout the year immediately following revegetation.
Revegetation must be repeated in successive years until the minimum 75%
survival for 1 year is achieved.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF STORMWATER FACILITIES
§ 156.100 MAINTENANCE EASEMENT.
   Prior to the issuance of any permit that has a SWMPR as 1 of the
requirements of the permit, the property owner of the site must execute a
maintenance easement agreement that shall be binding on all subsequent owners
of the site on the land served by the SWMPR. The agreement shall provide for
access to such facility at reasonable times for periodic inspection by the
Planning Commission staff or its agent, and for regular or special assessments
of property owners to ensure that such facility is maintained in proper working
condition to meet design standards and any other provisions established by this
chapter and the SWMPL. The easement agreement shall be furnished by the
applicant and recorded by the Planning Commission staff in the Jessamine County
Clerk's office.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.101 MAINTENANCE COVENANTS.
   Maintenance of all SWMPRs shall be ensured through the creation of a formal
maintenance covenant that must be approved by the Planning Commission staff and
recorded into the land record prior to final plan approval. As part of the
covenant, a schedule shall be developed for when and how often maintenance will
occur to ensure proper function of the SWMPR. The covenant shall also include
plans for periodic inspections to ensure proper performance of such facility
between scheduled cleanouts.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.102 DEDICATION FOR MAINTENANCE.
   The JCFC, in lieu of a maintenance easement, agreement and maintenance
covenant, may accept dedication of any existing or future SWMPR for
maintenance, provided such facility meets all the requirements of this chapter
and the SWMPL and includes adequate and perpetual access and sufficient area,
by easement or dedication, for inspection and regular maintenance.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.103 REQUIREMENTS FOR MAINTENANCE COVENANT.
   All SWMPRs must undergo, at the minimum, an annual inspection to document
maintenance and repair needs and ensure compliance with the requirements of
this chapter and the SWMPL and accomplishment of their purposes. These needs
may include: removal of silt, litter and other debris from all catch basins,
inlets and drainage pipes, grass cutting and vegetation removal, and necessary
replacement of landscape vegetation. Any maintenance needs found must be
addressed in a timely manner, as determined by the Planning Commission staff,
and the inspection and maintenance requirement may be increased as deemed
necessary to ensure proper functioning of the SWMPR.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.104 INSPECTION OF SWMPRS.
   Inspection programs may be established on any reasonable basis, including
but not limited to: routine inspections; random inspections; inspections based
upon complaints or other notice of possible violations; inspection of drainage
basins or areas identified as higher than typical sources of sediment or other
contaminants or pollutants; inspections of businesses or industries of a type
associated with higher than usual discharges of contaminants or pollutants or
with discharges of a type which are more likely than the typical discharge to
cause violations of state or federal water or sediment quality standards or the
NPDES stormwater permit; and joint inspections with other agencies inspecting
under environmental or safety laws. Inspections may include, but are not
limited to: reviewing maintenance and repair records; sampling discharges,
surface water, groundwater, and material or water in drainage control
facilities; and evaluating the condition of drainage control facilities and
other SWMPRs.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.105 RIGHT-OF-ENTRY FOR INSPECTION.
   When any new drainage control facility or other SWMPR is installed on
private property, or when any new connection is made between private property
and a public drainage control system or sanitary sewer, the property owner
shall grant to the Planning Commission staff the right to enter the property at
reasonable times and in a reasonable manner for the purpose of inspection. This
includes the right to enter a property when it has a reasonable basis to
believe that a violation of this chapter is occurring or has occurred, and to
enter when necessary for abatement of or correction of a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.106 RECORDS OF INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   Parties responsible for the operation and maintenance of a SWMPRs shall make
records of the installation and of all maintenance and repairs, and shall
retain the records for at least 3 years. These records shall be made available
to the Planning Commission staff during inspection of such facilities and at
other reasonable times upon request.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.107 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN PRACTICES.
   If a property owner fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the
maintenance covenant, they, after reasonable notice from the Planning
Commission staff, may correct a violation of the design standards or
maintenance needs by performing all necessary work to place the facility in
proper working condition. In the event that the SWMPR becomes a danger to
public safety or public health, the Planning Commission staff shall notify the
property owner in writing. The property owner shall have 14 calendar days after
mailing (US Mail, First Class), delivery or posting in a conspicuous place on
the subject property to execute maintenance and repair of such facility in an
approved manner. Failure to execute may result in the issuance of a Notice of
Violation as provided in §§
156.120 through
156.125 herein.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 156.120 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to violate any provision or
fail to comply with any requirements of this chapter and/or the SWMPL for the
site.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.121 NOTICE OF VIOLATION (NOV).
   When the Planning Commission staff determines that an activity is not being
carried out in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and/or the
SWMPL, it shall issue a written NOV to the owner of the property and applicant
by mailing same (U.S. Mail, First Class), delivery or posting the NOV in a
conspicuous place on the subject property. The NOV shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the owner and applicant;
   (B)   The address when available or a description of the building, structure
or land upon which the violation is occurring;
   (C)   A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
   (D)   A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the
development activity or SWMPR into compliance with this chapter and/or SWMPL
and a time schedule for the completion of such remedial action;
   (E)   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be assessed
against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed;
   (F)   A statement that the determination of violation in NOV may be appealed
to the Jessamine County MS4 Committee (JCMS4C) by filing a written notice of
appeal with the Planning Commission office within 15 days of service of notice
of violation as required hereunder; and
   (G)   An order to stop work (SWO) if the violation is of a continuing
nature.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.122 STOP WORK ORDERS.
   Persons receiving a SWO will be required to halt all construction activities
other than correction of the NOV. This "stop work order" will be in effect
until the Planning Commission staff confirms that the development activity is
in compliance with this chapter and/or SWMPL and the violation has been
satisfactorily addressed.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.123 ALL OTHER REMEDIES AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   If necessary and in addition to all other remedies available to the Planning
Commission, it may pursue injunctive relief in the Jessamine Circuit Court to
enforce the stop work order. The remedies listed in this chapter are not
exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state
or local law and it is within the discretion of the Planning Commission to seek
cumulative remedies.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.124 LIEN RIGHTS.
   In the event no appeal is taken or there is a final decision finding a
violation occurred and the applicant fails to correct the violation, the
Planning Commission may assess the owner(s) of the SWMPR and/or property for
the cost of repair work, penalties and any expenses incurred in relation to the
violation, including but limited to attorney's fees and court costs; and the
cost of the work, penalties and such expenses shall be a lien on the property
and the total of such expenses may be placed on the property tax bill and
collected as property taxes by the county or collected by lawsuit.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.125 APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   In the event the property owner and/or the applicant file a timely appeal
after issuance of the NOV, the JCMS4C shall conduct a due process hearing
within a reasonable time after the filing. It shall take a majority of a quorum
of the JCMS4C to make a final decision on the appeal and the JCMS4C shall make
written findings of fact in support of its decision and issue same as the
required for the NOV. The property owner and/or applicant shall have 30 days
after issuance of the decision to appeal same to the Jessamine Circuit Court.
Failure of the property owner and/or applicant to pursue any appeal shall
render the decision by the Planning Commission, JCMS4C or circuit court final
and enforceable.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who has violated or continues to violate this chapter shall be
liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and shall be
subject to a criminal penalty of $       per violation per day and/or
imprisonment for a period of time not to exceed        days. The authorized
enforcement agency may recover all attorneys' fees, court costs and other
expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including sampling and
monitoring expenses.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2013)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
         
II.   LAND TRANSACTIONS; EASEMENTS
         
III.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
Order/Res. Date Passed Subject
Order/ Date   Subject
Res.   Passed
Order  - -    Contract between County Health Department and Fiscal Court to administer
              hepatitis B shots
Order  - -    Authorization to sign contract with Evercom for inmate telephone service
-      - -    Franchise agreement with the county for a cable television system
-      6-30-  Franchise agreement with the county and Simmons Cable TV for a cable television
       1992   system
-      7-2-   Agreement with the City of Nicholasville and the City of Wilmore for a Joint
       1993   Industrial Development Authority
-      6-4-   Contract between Rumpke and Fiscal Court for collection of garbage in the
       1996   county
-      - -    Mutual aid agreement with the City of Nicholasville and the city of Wilmore for
       2000   fire and other emergency medical services
-      8-15-  Agreement with the City of Nicholasville to provide joint and equal financing
       2000   for acquisition, improvement, and development of jointly owned real estate
-      2-21-  Mutual aid for fire, between Fiscal Court, Nicholasville, Wilmore and County
       2001   Fire District
Order  8- -   Agreement with Verizon South Incorporated for E-911 service
       2001
-      5-22-  Bluegrass Area Development District solid waste management plan
       2002
-      7-30-  Agreement with County Agriculture for learning center
       2002
Res.   12-30- Acceptance of county area solid waste management plan
       2002
-      3-20-  Local Disaster Assistance Agreement with KY Division of Emergency Management
       2003
-      3-20-  Emergency Mutual Aid and Assistance agreement with KY Division of Emergency
       2003   Management
-      7- -   Encroachment agreement between Roberta Warren and City of Nicholasville and
       2003   Fiscal Court
-      7-29-  Agreement with KY Transportation Cabinet for bituminous resurfacing of various
       2003   county roads
-      8-5-   Agreement with Bluegrass Area Development District for sanitary sewer project
       2003
-      12-16- Contract with County Health Department for TB skin testing every 6 months for
       2003   emergency services personnel
-      1-20-  Memorandum of understanding with Environment and Public Protection Cabinet
       2004   regarding waste tire amnesty program for 2004
Res.   2-18-  Agreement between Transportation Cabinet and County Department of Rural and
       2004   Municipal Aid regarding county road improvements, beginning July 1, 2004
-      3-2-   Interlocal agreement between the county and Transportation Cabinet related to
       2004   co-permitting under Clean Water Act and EPA NPDES stormwater, phase II
Order  5- -   Approval of contract with Bluegrass Area Development District for multi-purpose
       2004   recreation complex–master plan study
              Agreement between Finance and Administration Cabinet, KY Heritage Land
-      6-1-   Conservation Fund Board and Fiscal Court for purchase and management of
       2004   Jessamine Creek Gorge Site preservation, for the period July 1, 2004 to June
              30, 2006
-      7-1-   Agreement with Boyle County EMS/EMRMC and Fiscal Court for paramedic program
       2004
-      8- -   Agreement with City of Wilmore for undertaking of Wilmore Senior Citizens
       2004   Center
-      9- -   Agreement with Jessamine Humane Society for an animal shelter, for 1 year
       2004
-      9-21-  Agreement with City of Nicholasville for international Business and Culture
       2004   Commission for Global Growth
-      12-20- Agreement for design for interpretative museum
       2004
Order  5-1-   Agreement with the City of Nicholasville and Jessamine County Fiscal Court to
       2007   install equipment and antennas on City of Nicholasville’s water storage tower
Order  6-19-  Granting a cable television franchise to Time Warner NY Cable, LLC, dba Time
       2007   Warner Cable to construct, operate, and maintain a cable television system
       12-2-  Agreement with the City of Nicholasville and Jessamine County Fiscal court
-      2008   defining terms and conditions under which the parties may share information
              derived from the collection of Occupational License Fees.
-      5-5-   City and County Inter-local agreement for net profits tax
       2009
-      2-15-  Interlocal cooperation agreement regarding the Kentucky Association of Counties
       2011   Interlocal Finance Corporation
-      6-21-  Interlocal agreement with Lexington-Lafayette Urban County Government on behalf
       2011   of Lexington Division of Police and Jessamine County Sheriff
-      11-29- Creating and industrial development authority.
       2011
-      7-31-  Interlocal agreement with Nicholasville for net profits tax
       2011
Res.   8-2-   Amending the interlocal agreement creating the Bluegrass and Central Kentucky
       2016   Unified Police Protection System (BACKUPPS)
-      4-4-   Agreement between Nicholasville Police and Jessamine County to establish a
       2017   Sheriff Drug Task Force
              Approving and authorizing the adoption, execution, and delivery of an
-      8-24-  interlocal cooperation agreement between the county and City of Nicholasville,
       2017   and the acquisition, development, and promotion of an industrial development
              project
-      2-6-   Approving an interlocal cooperation agreement between the county and the City
       2018   of Nicholasville for a net profits tax
-      11-19- Creating a non-exclusive franchise not to exceed five years for a cable
       2019   television system within the county
       4-7-   Approving an interlocal cooperation agreement between the county and the Cities
-      2020   of Nicholasville and Wilmore for a Countywide Public Safety Communications
              Center
              Approving an interlocal agreement among the Kentucky Counties of Anderson,
-      9-29-  Bourbon, Boyle, Clark, Estill, Franklin, Garrard, Harrison, Jessamine,
       2020   Lexington-Fayette, Lincoln, Madison, Mercer, Nicholas, Powell, Scott and
              Woodford
-      8-1-   Creating a non-exclusive franchise not to exceed ten years for a cable
       2023   television system within the county
             
 
TABLE II: LAND TRANSACTIONS; EASEMENTS
Order/Res. Date Passed Subject
Order/Res. Date Passed Subject
Res.       - -         Riney-B Park to be used for recreational trails
Order      11-6-2002   Purchase of land, ca. 130 acres on Clear Creek Road,
                       from Dr. Arnold M. and Aline P. Ludwig
-          4-18-2003   Easement with Leroy Land Dale and Sherry A Dale and JAH
                       Nicholasville Road, LLC, for access and construction
Order      12-16-2003  Easement to KY Heritage Counsel
Order      - -2004     Acceptance of tower built by Cumulus Wireless Services,
                       Inc.
Order      4- -2004    Conveyance of 20 cemetery lots from Nicholasville to
                       county
                      
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
Ord./Res. Date Passed Subject
Ord./Res. Date Passed Subject
Ord.      - -1996     Rezoning 1.1 acres at 1335 South Main Street from A-1 to
                      I-1
-         11-18-1996  Rezoning land from A-1 to I-1
-         7-16-2002   Rezoning 71.36 acres on U.S. 27 opposite Brannon Rd, A-
                      1 to - - and 22.51 acres from A-1 to - -
-         12-3-2002   Rezoning 1401 Hoover Road, 42.35 acres, from A-1 to R-1
-         12-17-2002  Rezoning 2.35 acres at 709 Jewell Pike, Wilmore, from A-
                      1 to I-1
-         10-21-2003  Rezoning 80.63 acres of Brannon Rd., Sternberg Property,
                      from A-1 to R-1
-         2-3-2004    Rezoning Teater property known as Old Teater Store, from
                      A-1 to B-1
                      Rezoning east side of U.S. 27 across from Brannon Rd,
-         2-3-2004    8.71 acres, from P-1 to B-1; 5.59 acres from B-1 to P-1,
                      with Bellerive Development Company
-         3-16-2004   Rezoning King’s Garden, 5 acres, from A-1 to B-1
Ord.      6-29-2004   Rezoning 5.97 acres, intersection of U.S. 27 and KY 1980,
                      from A-1 to B-1
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section                   Code Section
Ch. 13B                       111.031,
                              111.049
18A.225(2)                    114.01
Chapters 39A to 39F           32.15
39B.070(2)                    31.60
41.240(4)                     34.02
45A.010                       30.20
45A.090                       30.20
45A.095                       30.20
45A.300                       30.20
45A.343 through 45A.460       30.20
45A.380                       30.20
45A.380(2)                    30.20
45A.385                       30.20
45A.420                       30.20
Ch. 58                        35.05
61.300                        90.02
61.810                        33.34
65.007                        35.03
65.760                        31.04
65A.010 through 65A.090       35.04
67.083 et seq.                31.60
67.740                        32.01
67.745                        32.01
67.750 to 67.795              110.11
67.750(7)                     110.01
67.750(10)                    110.11
68.100                        35.05
75.015                        91.01
83A.065                       10.99
91A.080                       110.03
91A.345 through 91A.394       35.03
91A.350                       35.05
91A.350 through 91A.390       35.05
91A.390(2)                    35.03
91A.400                       35.05
92.330                        35.05
                              153.002,
Ch. 100                       153.003,
                              153.008,
                              155.01
100.183 through 100.197       153.009
100.297                       153.009
100.991                       153.999
118.025                       30.01
118.105                       33.03
118.115                       33.03
118.325                       33.03
118.760                       33.03
131.010(6)                    114.01
134.420                       31.63
136.120                       110.03
139.010                       35.02
149.401                       91.19
Ch. 151                       155.05
151.250                       155.05
Ch. 154A                      111.048
154.20-250 through 154.20-284 110.03
154.30-050(2)(a)              35.05
154.30-050(2)(a)3.c.          35.05
179.330                       31.34
211.015(1)(b)                 51.10
Ch. 218A                      111.048
224.01-010(33)                156.006
224.01-010(35)                156.006
224.30-100 through 224.30-190 92.02,
                              92.19
Ch. 227                       91.16,
                              91.17
227.210                       91.16
227.230                       91.16
Ch. 238                       111.048
                              111.002,
                              111.003,
                              111.005,
Chs. 241 through 244          111.017,
                              111.030,
                              111.048,
                              111.095
241.010(50)                   111.085
241.100                       111.030
241.110                       111.030
241.160                       111.030
241.200                       111.051
Ch. 242                       111.015
242.015 through 242.990       33.01
242.1244                      111.016
Ch. 243                       111.04,
                              110.03
243.036                       111.048
243.060                       111.015,
                              111.048
                              111.015,
243.070                       111.020,
                              111.048
243.075                       111.020
243.260                       111.016
243.450                       111.051
243.480                       111.999
243.490                       111.048,
                              111.051
243.500                       111.051
243.550                       111.049
243.600                       111.048
243.610                       111.048
243.850                       111.052
243.895                       111.077
Ch. 244                       130.31
244.050                       111.102
244.085                       111.095
244.087                       111.095
244.120                       111.085
244.130                       111.150
258.095                       90.01
258.195                       90.01,
                              90.02
                              90.01,
258.215                       90.08,
                              90.10,
                              90.11
258.215(1)                    90.03
258.215(2)                    90.03
258.235(3)                    90.99
Ch. 350                       155.05
413.072                       93.16
Ch. 424                       151.08
424.130                       30.20
424.140                       30.20
424.170                       111.040
436.605                       90.01
Ch. 446                       10.02
446.010(55)                   10.05
Chs. 500 et seq.              35.05
511.060 through 511.090       90.01
511.080                       111.103
525.010                       130.01
525.125                       90.02,
                              90.09
525.130                       90.02,
                              90.09
525.135                       90.02,
                              90.09
534.040(2)(c)                 10.99
                              
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         T.S.O. II
-        9-25-1975   94.03,
                     94.99
-        12-21-1994  93.15
-        12-30-2002  T.S.O. I
-        2-18-2004   T.S.O. I
-        8-2-2016    T.S.O. I
                    
 
EFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed                 Code Section
-        - -                         150.01
-        - -                         T.S.O. I
-        - -                         T.S.O I
-        - -                         154.01
-        10-1-1980                   94.02,
                                     94.99
                                     113.01 -
-        4-21-1981                   113.05,
                                     113.99
-        2- -1985, § 1.100          153.001
-        2- -1985, § 1.200          153.002
-        2- -1985, § 1.300          153.003
-        2- -1985, § 1.400          153.004
-        2- -1985, § 1.500          153.005
-        2- -1985, § 1.700          153.006
-        2- -1985, § Art. II        153.020
-        2- -1985, § 2.100          153.021
-        2- -1985, § 2.201          153.022
-        2- -1985, § 2.202          153.022
-        2- -1985, § 2.203          153.022
-        2- -1985, § 2.204          153.022
-        2- -1985, § 2.205          153.022
-        2- -1985, § 2.301          153.023
-        2- -1985, § 2.302          153.023
-        2- -1985, § 2.303          153.023
-        2- -1985, § 2.304          153.023
-        2- -1985, § 2.305          153.023
-        2- -1985, § 2.306          153.023
-        2- -1985, § 2.307          153.023
-        2- -1985, § 2.400          153.024
-        2- -1985, § 2.401          153.024
-        2- -1985, § 2.402          153.024
-        2- -1985, Art. III          153.035
-        2- -1985, § 3.100          153.035
-        2- -1985, § 3.200          153.036
-        2- -1985, § 3.201          153.036
-        2- -1985, § 3.202          153.036
-        2- -1985, § 3.203          153.036
-        2- -1985, § 3.300          153.037
-        2- -1985, § 3.301          153.037
-        2- -1985, § 3.302          153.037
-        2- -1985, § 3.303          153.037
-        2- -1985, § 3.304          153.038
-        2- -1985, § 3.305          153.039
-        2- -1985, § 3.306          153.039
-        2- -1985, § 3.401          153.040 
-        2- -1985, § 3.402          153.040
-        2- -1985, § 3.403          153.040
-        2- -1985, § 3.404          153.040
-        2- -1985, § 3.405          153.040
-        2- -1985, § 3.406          153.040
-        2- -1985, § 3.407          153.040
-        2- -1985, § 3.408          153.040
-        2- -1985, § 3.500          153.041
-        2- -1985, § 3.600          153.042
-        2- -1985, § 3.601          153.042
-        2- -1985, § 3.602          153.042
-        2- -1985, § 3.700          153.043
-        2- -1985, § 3.701          153.043
-        2- -1985, § 3.702          153.043
-        2- -1985, § 3.800          153.044
-        2- -1985, Art. IV           153.060
-        2- -1985, § 4.100          153.061
-        2- -1985, § 4.101          153.061
-        2- -1985, § 4.102          153.061
-        2- -1985, § 4.103          153.061
-        2- -1985, § 4.104          153.061
-        2- -1985, § 4.105          153.061
-        2- -1985, § 4.106          153.061
-        2- -1985, § 4.201          153.062
-        2- -1985, § 4.202          153.062
-        2- -1985, § 4.203          153.062
-        2- -1985, § 4.204          153.062
-        2- -1985, § 4.205          153.062
-        2- -1985, § 4.206          153.062
-        2- -1985, § 4.207          153.062
-        2- -1985, § 4.208          153.062
-        2- -1985, § 4.209          153.062
-        2- -1985, § 4.210          153.062
-        2- -1985, § 4.211          153.062
-        2- -1985, § 4.304          153.063
-        2- -1985, § 4.401          153.064
-        2- -1985, § 4.402          153.064
-        2- -1985, § 4.501          153.065
-        2- -1985, § 4.502          153.065
-        2- -1985, § 4.600          153.066
-        2- -1985, § 4.601          153.066
-        2- -1985, § 4.602          153.066
-        2- -1985, § 4.603          153.066
-        2- -1985, § 4.604          153.066
-        2- -1985, § 4.700          153.067
-        2- -1985, § 4.701          153.067
-        2- -1985, § 4.702          153.067
-        2- -1985, § 4.703          153.067
-        2- -1985, § 4.704          153.067
-        2- -1985, § 4.705          153.067
-        2- -1985, § 4.706          153.067
-        2- -1985, Art. V            153.080
-        2- -1985, § 5.100          153.081
-        2- -1985, § 5.201          153.082
-        2- -1985, § 5.202          153.082
-        2- -1985, § 5.203          153.082
-        2- -1985, § 5.204          153.082
-        2- -1985, § 5.205          153.082
-        2- -1985, § 5.301          153.083
-        2- -1985, § 5.302          153.083
-        2- -1985, § 5.303          153.083
-        2- -1985, § 5.304          153.083
-        2- -1985, § 5.305          153.083
-        2- -1985, § 5.306          153.083
-        2- -1985, § 5.401          153.084
-        2- -1985, § 5.402          153.084
-        2- -1985, § 6.100          153.100
-        2- -1985, § 6.101          153.100
-        2- -1985, § 6.102          153.100
-        2- -1985, § 6.103          153.100
-        2- -1985, § 6.104          153.100
-        2- -1985, § 6.105          153.100
-        2- -1985, § 6.106          153.100
-        2- -1985, § 6.201          153.101
-        2- -1985, § 6.202          153.101
-        2- -1985, § 6.300          153.999
-        2- -1985, § 6.301          153.999
-        2- -1985, § 6.302          153.999
-        2- -1985, § 6.303          153.999
-        2- -1985, § 6.700          153.100
-        2- -1985, § 7.100          153.008
-        2- -1985, § 7.200          153.009
-        2- -1985, § 8.200          153.007
-        2- -1985, Appendix I        Ch. 153, Appx A
-        2- -1985, Appendix II       Ch. 153, Appx C
-        2- -1985, Appendix III      Ch. 153, Appx C
-        2- -1985, Appendix IV       Ch. 153, Appx C
-        2- -1985, Appendix V        Ch. 153, Appx C
-        2- -1985, Appendix A        Ch. 153, Appx B
-        2- -1985, Appendix B        Ch. 153, Appx B
-        2- -1985, Appendix C        Ch. 153, Appx B
-        6-30-1992                   T.S.O. I
-        7-2-1993                    T.S.O. I
                                     33.01 -
                                     33.03,
                                     33.15 -
-        11-15-1994                  33.20,
                                     33.30 -
                                     33.37,
                                     33.99
-        11-15-1994, Official Form 1 33.99
-        12-20-1994                  34.01,
                                     34.02
-        12-21-1995                  91.01
-        6-4-1996                    T.S.O. I 
-        - -1996                     T.S.O. III
-        11-18-1996                  T.S.O. III 
-        2-4-1997                    130.01,
                                     130.99
-        11-18-1997                  33.50 -
                                     33.58
-        6-2-1998                    91.15 -
                                     91.18 
-        8- -1998                    153.040
                                     153.042,
-        8-10-1999                   153.066,
                                     153.083
-        - - 2000                    T.S.O. I 
343-2000 8-15-2000                   T.S.O. I 
-        11-21-2000                  94.01
                                     31.01 -
-        11-21-2000                  31.09,
                                     31.99
-        2-21-2001                   T.S.O. I 
-        4-10-2001                   153.082
-        5-8-2001                    153.062
-        7-10-2001                   153.024,
                                     153.084
-        8- -2001                    T.S.O. I 
-        8-14-2001                   153.999
-        10-3-2001                   30.04
-        12-18-2001                  33.50 -
                                     33.58
-        3-12-2002                   153.062
                                     31.30 -
-        3-19-2002                   31.46,
                                     31.99
-        5-22-2002                   T.S.O. I 
-        7-16-2002                   T.S.O. III 
-        7-30-2002                   T.S.O. I 
-        11-6-2002                   T.S.O. II
-        11-12-2002                  153.039
-        12-3-2002                   T.S.O. III 
-        12-17-2002                  T.S.O. III 
-        3-20-2003                   T.S.O. I 
-        4-18-2003                   T.S.O. II 
-        5-20-2003                   31.31
-        7- -2003                    T.S.O. I 
-        7-1-2003                    32.01
-        7-29-2003                   T.S.O. I 
-        8-5-2003                    T.S.O. I 
-        9-30-2003                   31.60 -
                                     31.64
-        10-21-2003                  T.S.O. III 
-        12-16-2003                  T.S.O. I 
-        12-16-2003                  T.S.O. II  
-        - -2004                     T.S.O. II 
                                     92.01 -
                                     92.04,
                                     92.15 -
-        1-6-2004                    92.20,
                                     92.35 -
                                     92.41,
                                     92.99
-        1-20-2004                   T.S.O. I  
-        2-3-2004                    T.S.O. III 
-        3-2-2004                    T.S.O. I 
-        3-16-2004                   T.S.O. III 
                                     93.01 -
-        3-30-2004                   93.03,
                                     93.99
-        4- -2004                    T.S.O. II 
-        5- -2004                    T.S.O. I 
-        6-1-2004                    T.S.O. I 
-        6-8-2004                    153.039
-        6-29-2004                   T.S.O. III 
-        7-1-2004                    T.S.O. I
-        8- -2004                    T.S.O. I 
-        9-21-2004                   T.S.O. I 
-        9- -2004                    T.S.O. I 
                                     30.01 -
04-31    10-5-2004                   30.03,
                                     30.99
                                     152.01 -
                                     152.06,
                                     152.15 -
-        11-30-2004                  152.19,
                                     152.30 -
                                     152.37,
                                     152.99
-        12-20-2004                  T.S.O. I 
950-2    1-18-2005                   151.01 -
                                     151.11
-        2-14-2005                   32.15 -
                                     32.26
                                     112.01 -
-        3-1-2005                    112.10,
                                     112.99
-        4-12-2005, § 4.204         153.062
-        4-12-2005, § 4.212         153.062
-        4-12-2005, § 4.301         153.063
-        4-12-2005, § 4.302         153.063
-        4-12-2005, § 4.303         153.063
-        4-12-2005, § 5.202         153.082
                                     51.10 -
                                     51.16,
-        10-4-2005                   51.25 -
                                     51.33,
                                     51.99
-        9-5-2006                    93.16
-        1-16-2007                   Adopting Ordinance
-        5-1-2007                    T.S.O. I
-        6-19-2007                   T.S.O. I
                                     110.01-
110      12-4-2007                   110.12,
                                     110.99
-        4-29-2008                   93.02,
                                     93.99
-        6-3-2008                    31.04
                                     155.01 -
                                     155.05,
                                     155.15 -
                                     155.22,
                                     155.30 -
-        10-14-2008                  155.32,
                                     155.40 -
                                     155.42,
                                     155.44 -
                                     155.46,
                                     155.50
-        12-2-2008                   T.S.O. I
-        - -                         153.068
-        6-2-2009                    30.15
-        5-5-2009                    T.S.O. I
                                     51.01,
                                     51.02,
                                     51.10 -
-        8-3-2010                    51.16,
                                     51.25 -
                                     51.33,
                                     51.99
-        2-15-2011                   T.S.O. I
                                     130.30 -
-        5-3-2011                    130.33,
                                     130.99
                                     155.01 -
                                     155.05,
                                     155.15 -
                                     155.22,
-        5-31-2011                   155.30 -
                                     155.32,
                                     155.40 -
                                     155.46,
                                     155.50
-        6-21-2011                   T.S.O. I
                                     50.01 -
531-04   5-17-2004                   50.08,
                                     50.99
-        11-1-2011                   Adopting Ordinance
-        11-29-2011                  T.S.O. I
-        2-7-2012                    150.01
-        3-20-2012                   130.02
-        7-31-2012                   T.S.O. I
                                     156.001 -
                                     156.006,
                                     156.020 -
                                     156.024,
                                     156.040,
                                     156.050,
                                     156.060 -
                                     156.065,
-        4-30-2013                   156.080 -
                                     156.082,
                                     156.090 -
                                     156.092,
                                     156.100 -
                                     156.107,
                                     156.120 -
                                     156.125,
                                     156.999
-        11-19-2013                  Adopting Ordinance
-        12-16-2014                  Adopting Ordinance
                                     90.01 -
-        6-16-2015                   90.12,
                                     90.99
-        10-18-2016                  Adopting Ordinance
                                     91.19,
                                     91.35 -
-        1-17-2017                   91.37,
                                     91.50 -
                                     91.53,
                                     91.99
-        4-4-2017                    T.S.O. I
                                     35.01,
-        7-18-2017                   35.03 -
                                     35.05
-        8-24-2017                   T.S.O. I
                                     93.01 -
-        10-17-2017                  93.03,
                                     93.16
-        7-27-2018                   110.03
-        2-6-2018                    T.S.O. I
-        2-6-2018                    71.01
-        10-30-2018                  Adopting Ordinance
-        1-29-2019                   31.04
-        3-12-2019                   114.01
-        4-2-2019                    150.02
-        10-29-2019                  Adopting Ordinance
-        11-19-2019                  T.S.O. I
-        4-7-2020                    T.S.O. I
-        9-29-2020                   T.S.O. I
                                     111.001 -
                                     111.006,
                                     111.015 -
                                     111.021,
                                     111.030,
                                     111.031,
                                     111.040 -
                                     111.053,
                                     111.060,
                                     111.070 -
                                     111.085,
-        2-2-2021                    111.095,
                                     111.100 -
                                     111.103,
                                     111.110 -
                                     111.113,
                                     111.125,
                                     111.140,
                                     111.150,
                                     111.160 -
                                     111.163,
                                     111.170,
                                     111.999
-        6-29-2021                   110.11
-        6-21-2022                   Adopting Ordinance
-        10-18-2022                  95.01
                                     35.02,
-        1-3-2023                    35.03,
                                     35.05
-        2-7-2023                    Adopting Ordinancce
-        4-18-2023                   111.060
-        8-1-2023                    T.SO. I
-        8-15-2023                   30.20
-        4-16-2024                   91.15
        4-16-2024                   91.18
                                    
 
