KENTON COUNTY AIRPORT BOARD
RULES AND REGULATIONS
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-01, passed 1-20-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
RULE 100.00: DEFINITIONS
RULE 100.00: DEFINITIONS
   ACCIDENT. Any event or incident causing personal injury or property damage.
   AGENCY. Any airline, tenant, contractor, or other person or entity having an
agreement with the Airport Board to do business on the airport, including any
subtenant or subcontractor thereof.
   AIR OPERATIONS AREAS (AOA). That portion of the airport, specified in the
Airport Security Program in which security measures specified in 49 C.F.R. Part
1542 are carried out. This area includes the area used for aircraft landing,
parking, enplaning, and deplaning of passengers and all areas so designated by
the Chief Executive Officer of the airport, aircraft movement areas, aircraft
parking areas, loading ramps, and safety areas for use by aircraft regulated
under 49 C.F.R. Parts 1544 or 1546, and any adjacent areas (such as general
aviation areas) that are not separated by adequate security systems, measures,
or procedures. This area does not include the secured area.
   AIRCRAFT. Any and all machines or contrivances used for navigation or flight
in air or space.
   AIRCRAFT FUEL SERVICING HYDRANT VEHICLE. A vehicle equipped with facilities
to transfer fuel between a fuel hydrant and an aircraft.
   AIRCRAFT FUEL SERVICING TANK VEHICLE. A self-propelled vehicle having a
cargo tank for the transportation of aviation fuel.
   AIRCRAFT OPERATOR. Any person, company, or organization who uses, causes to
be used, or allows use of an aircraft for air navigation or ground movements.
   AIRPORT. All land and improvements within the geographic boundary lines of
the Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport, Boone County, Kentucky.
   AIRPORT FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of the Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting
Department employed by the Board and responsible for the day-to-day operations
of the Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting Department under the general
supervision of the CEO, COO or such other designated representative of the
Board.
   AIRPORT POLICE. Those persons employed by the Board and who are charged with
the responsibility of maintaining public order, safety, and welfare and the
enforcement of these Rules and Regulations pursuant to KRS 183.880.
   AIRCRAFT RESCUE AND FIREFIGHTING DEPARTMENT or ARFF. The department at the
airport vested with the responsibility for the prevention, extinguishment,
suppression, and control of fires at the airport.
   AIRPORT SECURITY COORDINATOR. Person employed by the Board and under the
direction of the CEO, and charged with the authority and responsibility to
implement and enforce the ASP, or such employee’s designated representative.
   AIRPORT SECURITY PROGRAM or ASP. A security program approved by TSA under
§ 1542.101 of 49 C.F.R. Chapter XII.
   AIRPORT TENANT(S). Individuals, partnerships, corporations, or other
business entities, and their agents, employees, and subtenants, that occupy or
control part or all of areas, buildings, or other facilities at the airport,
which they lease from the Board.
   AUTHORIZED PERSONS. Those persons authorized with a personnel identification
badge issued by the Airport Security Coordinator, or designated representative,
to have access to all or certain identified areas of the SIDA. No person under
the age of 15 years shall be issued a personnel identification badge.
   AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE. Any vehicle or equipment navigated or maneuvered without
the need for human control or intervention under a range of situations and/or
conditions.
   BOARD. The Kenton County Airport Board.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER or CEO. The person responsible for the operation and
management of the airport, and is appointed by the Board.
   CHIEF OPERATIONS OFFICER or COO. The person responsible for the day-to-day
operations of the airport under general supervision of the CEO.
   COMMERCIAL. Of, relating to, or connected with the actual or proposed sale,
gift, exchange, or solicitation therefor of goods, services, productions, or
property or rights of any kind, whether for profit or not. A sale or exchange
is not COMMERCIAL if the sale or exchange is made by or on behalf of an
organization which is a federally tax exempt organization to which
contributions are deductible in determining taxable income for federal tax
purposes, and if the sale or exchange is made pursuant to said organization’s
tax exempt purposes and if the transaction is in compliance with other
applicable sections of these Rules and Regulations.
   CONTROL TOWER. The aircraft control center operated by the Federal Aviation
Administration of the United States government and located on the airport.
   DEADMAN FLOW CONTROL. A device that needs a positive action by a person to
allow the flow of fuel.
   ENGINE RUN-UP. Any activity by an aircraft operator, other than aircraft
taxi, take-off, or landing that requires engine power above idle.
      (1)   ENGINE RUN-UP POLICY. The policy established by the Chief Executive
Officer providing procedures to perform an engine run-up for maintenance or
operating an Aircraft, as such policy may be amended and supplemented from time
to time.
      (2)   EXTENDED FULL-POWER RUN-UP. A full-power run-up that lasts longer
than two minutes in duration.
      (3)   FULL-POWER RUN-UP. An engine run-up that utilizes more than 80% of
engine power.
   ESCORT. A person authorized to accompany or monitor the activities of an
individual who does not have unescorted access authority into or within a
secured area of SIDA, and/or AOA.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration of the United States government.
   FIREARM. Any item from which a projectile may be fired by the force of an
explosion, including, but not limited to, starter pistols, compressed airguns,
BB guns, and flare pistols.
   HEARING OFFICER. A designated representative who will conduct hearings
pursuant to the provisions of these Rules and Regulations.
   MOVEMENT AREA. The taxiways, runways, and other areas of the AOA at the
airport that are under the control of the control tower.
   NON-MOVEMENT AREA. All other portions of the AOA at the airport outside of
the movement area.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, unincorporated
association, or any legal entity.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFICATION NUMBER (PIN). The individual access entry number
that works in conjunction with the airport issued personnel identification
badge to allow entry into restricted areas.
   PERSONNEL IDENTIFICATION BADGE (BADGE OR IDENTIFICATION BADGE).
Identification for authorized persons containing the individual’s name, company
name and photograph and include airport-issued personnel identification badges
issued by the Board to an authorized person for performance of the person’s job
duties within the SIDA.
   PUBLIC AREA or PUBLIC AREAS. Area or areas of the airport under the
exclusive control and supervision of the Board to which or into which members
of the general public have uninhibited access subject only to the Rules and
Regulations of the Board.
   QUALIFIED PERSONNEL. A pilot who is type-rated to operate a designated
aircraft or a person who is properly designated by the aircraft operator
pursuant to the Surface Movement Training Policy.
   RAMP AND APRON AREA. Areas of the airport designated for the purpose of
unloading and loading passengers, baggage, freight, mail, supplies, and other
cargo, to and from aircraft, for the purpose of performing such fueling and
other ramp services or for the purpose of parking mobile equipment, actively
used in connection with ramp operations, subject to reasonable rules and
regulations regarding the use and operation of such equipment.
   RAMP CITATION. A citation written by airport police and given to a person
for safety or security violations. RAMP CITATIONS are on a form developed and
prescribed by airport police. See Rule 900.00 for applicable penalties and
enforcement.
   RESTRICTED AREA. Used interchangeably with SIDA, and includes any area not
open to the general public.
   REVOCATION. The discontinuance of a person’s ability to access restricted
areas. This includes, but is not limited to, revoking or restricting the
person’s identification badge.
   SECURED AREA. The portion of the airport, specified in the Airport Security
Program, in which certain security measures specified in Part 1542 of 49 C.F.R.
Chapter XII are carried out. This area is where aircraft operators and foreign
air carriers that have a security program under Part 1544 or 1546 of 49 C.F.R.
Chapter XII enplane and deplane passengers and sort and load baggage, and
includes any adjacent areas that are not separated by adequate security
measures. At the airport, the SECURED AREA includes all outside ramp areas
within the perimeter fence (except for those areas identified as AOA), all
baggage make-up areas, and designated internal areas of the Ameriflight
building, the Delta Airline’s maintenance hangar and cabin services building.
   SECURITY ACCESS SYSTEM. Equipment installed or placed by or under the
direction of the Board, or designated representative, to monitor or control
entrances to and exits from restricted areas. Security devices include, but are
not limited to, bells, sirens, communication equipment, locks and corresponding
keys, emergency exits, electronic access control, and other security equipment.
   SECURITY IDENTIFICATION AREA (SIDA). Used interchangeably with RESTRICTED
AREA. That portion of the airport specified in the ASP, in which security
measures specified in 49 C.F.R. Part 1540 are carried out. The SIDA at CVG is
identified as all secured areas, AOA, and all non-public restricted areas
located in the sterile areas. These restricted areas include areas designated
by vendors and airport tenants as non-public work areas (i.e., kitchens),
storage and warehousing areas used by vendors and airport tenants and non-
public offices located beyond 49 C.F.R. § 1542.207(b) doors in the sterile
areas.
   SECURITY PERIMETER. The portion of the airport that is enclosed by fencing,
walls, or other barriers, and to which access is controlled through designated
entry points.
   SECURITY SCREENING AREA. An access point of a sterile area where persons and
belongings are inspected prior to entrance. This area includes both entrance
and exit points to the sterile area.
   SERVICE ANIMAL. An animal that is trained to do work or perform tasks for
people with disabilities such as guiding people who are blind, alerting people
who are deaf, pulling a wheelchair, alerting and protecting a person who is
having a seizure, reminding a person with mental illness to take prescribed
medications, calming a person with post traumatic stress disorder during an
anxiety attack, or performing other duties. SERVICE ANIMALS are working
animals, not pets. The work or task an animal has been trained to provide must
be directly related to the person’s disability.
   STERILE AREA(S). The portion of the airport defined in the airport security
program that provides passengers access to boarding aircraft and to which the
access generally is controlled by TSA, or by an aircraft operator under Part
1544 of 49 C.F.R. Chapter XII or a foreign air carrier under Part 1546 of 49
C.F.R. Chapter XII, through the screening of persons and property.
   SURFACE MOVEMENT TRAINING POLICY. The policy established by the CEO
requiring training for persons to conduct engine run-ups and/or maneuvering of
aircraft on behalf of an aircraft operator in the movement area of the airport,
which policy requires an aircraft operator to annually submit a letter of
verification to the COO designating those persons that have completed such
training and are qualified personnel on behalf of the aircraft operator, as
such policy may be amended and supplemented from time to time.
   SUSPENSION. Temporary discontinuance of a person’s ability to access
restricted areas. This includes, but is not limited to, suspending or
restricting the person’s identification badge.
   TOWER ORDER. Any written rule, regulation, policy, or procedure used by the
Federal Aviation Administration for the purpose of instructing Federal Aviation
Administration aircraft controllers regarding restrictions on the use of
runways at the airport.
   TSA. Transportation Security Administration.
   VEHICLE. Automobiles, trucks, buses, motorcycles, bicycles, push carts, and
any other device in or upon the airport by which any person or property is or
may be transported, carried, or drawn upon land, aircraft excluded.
RULE 200.00: GENERAL PROVISIONS
RULE 200.00: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Regulation
   
201.00   Severability or invalidity
   
202.00   Federal regulations ascendant
   
203.00   Interpretation, implementation, administration, and enforcement
   
204.00   Request to inspect records
      
204.01   Purpose
      
204.02   Request procedure
   
205.00   Use of airport for first amendment activities
      
205.01   Definitions and construction
      
205.02   Purpose
      
205.03   Considerations
      
205.04   Creation of designated areas for expressive activity; expressive
activity limited to designated areas; permit required
      
205.05   General regulations
      
205.06   Permits
      
205.07   Miscellaneous
      
205.08   Commercial speech
201.00 SEVERABILITY OR INVALIDITY.
   If any provision of the Board’s Rules and Regulations is held invalid,
unconstitutional, or ineffective then the remainder of the Rules and
Regulations shall not be affected. If the application of any Rule or Regulation
to any person or circumstances is held invalid, unconstitutional, or
ineffective, the remaining application(s) of the Rules or Regulations remain to
the extent the remainder is not invalid, unconstitutional, or ineffective.
202.00 FEDERAL REGULATIONS ASCENDANT.
   The Rules and Regulations in no way supersede or abrogate regulations set
forth in Part 1542 (Airport Security) of 49 C.F.R. or Part 139 (Certification
and Operations of Land Airports) of the FAA chapter of 14 C.F.R.
203.00 INTERPRETATION, IMPLEMENTATION, ADMINISTRATION, AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The CEO is vested with the authority to interpret the provisions of these
Rules and Regulations and to take such actions as the CEO, in his or her
reasonable discretion, deems appropriate to implement, administer, and enforce
the same.
204.00 REQUEST TO INSPECT RECORDS.
   204.01 Purpose. The purposes of Rule 204.00 are to comply with the
requirements of KRS 61.870 et seq., the Kentucky Open Records Act. The Board
shall adhere to the Kentucky Open Records Act in the administration of this
Rule.
   204.02 Request procedure.
      (1)   Any person who is a resident of the Commonwealth of Kentucky as
defined in KRS 61.870(10) shall have the right to inspect the Board’s public
records by submitting the request to the official custodian of the Board’s
public records: the Vice President of Business Administration. The Board will
only respond to requests that a person:
         (a)   Mails to the Board’s principal office at 77 Comair Boulevard,
Erlanger, KY 41018 to the attention of the Official Custodian; or
         (b)   E-mails to openrecords@cvgairport.com.
      (2)   The request must either be a completed standardized form
promulgated by the Kentucky Attorney General for such purpose or, in all other
circumstances, be in writing and contain:
         (a)   A description of the records to be inspected including enough
detail for the Board to ascertain the records sought;
      (b)   The name and contact information for the requesting person;
         (c)   A statement that the person making the request:
            1.   Is a resident of the Commonwealth under KRS 61.870(10); and
            2.   The statement includes the manner in which the requester is a
resident of the Commonwealth under KRS 61.870(10)(a) to (f).
         (d)   The handwritten signature of the requesting person if the
request is in paper form.
      (3)   The Board will reply to each request no more than five days
(excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) following the date the
official custodian receives the request in accordance with division (1) above.
The Board’s reply will include, but is not limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   Whether the Board has identified public records responsive to
the request;
         (b)   Whether the Board will not permit the inspection of the records
or portions of the records responsive to the request and, in that event, the
reason why inspection is not permitted;
         (c)   The conditions for the inspection of the records responsive to
the request, which may include applicable fees for copying and postage; and
         (d)   Whether more time is necessary to identify records responsive to
the request.
      (4)   Any and all inspections of the public records of the Board may be
made by either of the two following methods:
         (a)   A person may inspect the public records during the regular
office hours of the Board from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. ET Monday through Friday
(excluding legal holidays) and shall take place in the facilities provided by
the Board; or
         (b)   By receiving copies of the public records from the Board.
205.00 USE OF AIRPORT FOR FIRST AMENDMENT ACTIVITIES.
   205.01 Definitions and construction.
      (1)   Definitions. As used in Regulation
205.00 only:
         DESIGNATED AREA. One of several places at the airport in which
engaging in expressive activity is permitted with a duly authorized permit.
         EXPRESSIVE ACTIVITY. The act of engaging the public in free exercise/
literature distribution, marching/picketing, or solicitation.
         FREE EXERCISE/LITERATURE DISTRIBUTION. Communicating or conveying idea
(s), message(s), or opinion(s), to the public, including, but not limited to,
leafleting, handing out, or other dissemination of documents or other similar
material that contains or sets forth language or some other form of written or
printed communicative matter, symbols, or images, not involving marching/
picketing or solicitation.
         MARCHING/PICKETING. The posting, procession, or gathering of a group
of individuals who are supporting or protesting a particular subject in a
combined demonstration to the public, not involving solicitation.
         OBSCENE MATERIAL. Material that:
            1.   To the average person, applying contemporary community
standards, the predominant appeal of the material, taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest in sexual conduct;
            2.   Depicts or describes the sexual conduct in a patently
offensive way; and
            3.   Taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
         PERMIT. The certificate issued by the Chief Executive Officer or the
Chief Executive Officer’s authorized representative authorizing the permittee
(s) named on the certificate to engage in expressive activity at the airport,
subject to the regulations set forth in this Regulation
205.00.
         PERMITTEE. Any person or group who has been issued a permit by the
Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Executive Officer’s authorized
representative. PERMITTEE includes, both individually and collectively, the
person responsible for completing the application and any member of that
person’s group listed on the application and permit.
         SIGN. Any combination of letters, pictures, characters, or other
communicative display used to identify or direct attention to some activity or
direction.
         SOLICITATION. Any request, whether spoken or communicated by conduct
or some form of sign or message, to the public for the immediate exchange of a
donation, bequest, or other form of grant of funds, money, negotiable
instrument, or other valuable asset, to the person making the request, or to
any other person or group.
      (2)   Limiting construction. For purposes of Regulation
205.00, the definition of “expressive activity” shall not include or refer to
the communication, conveyance, or document distribution of an idea, message, or
opinion that is incidental to the person’s purpose for being at the airport and
is not intended for the public-at-large, such as conversation, discussion, or
other forms of contact among and between travelers.
   205.02 Purpose. Regulation
205.00 is promulgated for the purposes of regulating the time, place, and
manner in which a person may engage in expressive activity at the airport.
Regulation
205.00 seeks to strike an appropriate balance between the First Amendment right
of free expression with the Board’s right to preserve the airport for its
primary purpose of efficient air travel. The intent of these time, place, and
manner regulations is to ensure that any person engaging in expressive activity
at the airport does not materially impact or affect the airport’s security,
operational efficiency, revenue, and/or aesthetics-all of which are
fundamental, essential components of efficient air travel-in a manner that
undermines the airport’s primary purpose. Therefore, any person desiring to use
the airport for the purpose of engaging in expressive activity shall do so only
in accordance with the time, place, and manner regulations set forth in
Regulation
205.00 et seq.
   205.03 Considerations. The time, place, and manner regulations of this
Regulation
205.00 are necessary to address the following concerns, all of which are
paramount considerations the Board has taken into account in striking a balance
between the First Amendment right of free expression and the Board’s right to
preserve the airport for efficient air travel:
      (1)   Providing ample channels of communication to persons seeking to
engage in expressive activity at the airport;
      (2)   Ensuring adequate nearby police presence for the protection of
persons engaging in expressive activity;
      (3)   Limiting such expressive activity to certain areas of the airport
in which the expressive activity will not adversely impact essential components
of efficient air travel, such as security, operational efficiency, revenue, and
aesthetics; and
      (4)   Protecting users of the airport from harassment, intimidation, and
unlawful conduct on the part of persons engaging in expressive activity.
   205.04 Creation of designated areas for expressive activity; expressive
activity limited to designated areas; permit required.
      (1)   The Board hereby creates designated areas at the airport for
persons to engage in expressive activity at the airport. These designated areas
are set forth on Exhibits A-1 through A-4. Recognizing that each form of
expressive activity presents unique concerns regarding the impact such form may
have on airport security, operational efficiency, revenue, and aesthetics, the
Board has set forth on Exhibits A-1 through A-4 the particular forms of
expressive activity permitted in each designated area.
      (2)   In order to preserve airport security, operational efficiency,
revenue, and aesthetics, expressive activity is prohibited at the airport
outside of the designated areas.
      (3)   No person shall engage in expressive activity at the airport
without first obtaining a proper permit as provided in Regulation
205.06.
      (4)   There shall be no more than two members of a group in a designated
area purposed solely for free exercise/literature distribution and/or
solicitation. Up to ten members of a group are permitted in a designated area
permitting marching/demonstrating, provided that no more than two members of
any group may engage in free exercise/literature distribution in such areas.
      (5)   No more than one permit shall be issued per designated area at any
given time.
      (6)   No more than two designated areas shall be allotted to any group at
any given time.
   205.05 General regulations.
      (1)   Each person must abide by all pertinent local, state, and federal
laws, statutes, rules, regulations, and ordinances while at the airport.
      (2)   Each person must, at all times, conduct themselves in a peaceful
manner.
      (3)   No person shall do any of the following on airport property:
         (a)   Sell anything for commercial purposes, except by contract with
the Board;
         (b)   Make a noise or other sound which substantially interferes with
the ability of others to hear public announcements or which substantially
interferes with the transaction of business with airlines, concessionaires, or
lessees;
         (c)   Interfere with the free passage to, or access of, other persons
to corridors, entrances, doorways, offices, or airport facilities;
         (d)   Erect a table, chair, or other structure (other than an easel or
similar stand, as permitted by Regulation
205.06(6)(e)); or
         (e)   Litter or dispose of any trash or rubbish at the airport, except
in properly marked containers.
      (4)   Solicitation is only permitted on behalf of nonprofit organizations
for charitable, philanthropic, patriotic, political, educational, religious, or
other like nonprofit purposes.
   205.06 Permits. As set forth in Regulation
205.04(3), any person or group desiring to engage in expressive activity at the
airport shall first obtain a written permit from the CEO or the CEO’s
authorized representative(s), as follows:
      (1)   To obtain a permit, each person or group desiring to engage in
expressive activity shall prepare an application, in a form authorized by the
CEO or the CEO’s authorized representative, which shall be submitted either in
paper or electronic form, whichever the CEO or the CEO’s authorized
representative shall require. The application shall require the following
information and such other information as the CEO or the CEO’s authorized
representative may require, consistent with the purpose and intent of this
Subsection 205.06:
         (a)   The full name, mailing address, and telephone number of the
person sponsoring, promoting, or conducting the proposed expressive activity
who shall be the primary point of contact with the Board;
         (b)   A brief explanation of the form of the proposed expressive
activity;
         (c)   Whether the proposed expressive activity is for free exercise/
literature distribution, marching/picketing, or solicitation;
         (d)   The number of persons that will be engaged in the expressive
activity and their full names;
         (e)   The applicant’s requested designated area to perform the
proposed expressive activity;
         (f)   The dates and hours the person(s) listed desire to engage in the
proposed expressive activity;
         (g)   A copy of any literature to be distributed and/or signs to be
displayed; and
         (h)   For applicants proposing to engage in solicitation:
            1.   The name, mailing address, and telephone number of the
organization on behalf of which the applicant intends to solicit;
            2.   An attachment of reliable documentary evidence of the
nonprofit status of the organization sponsoring and/or conducting the
solicitation; and
            3.   A copy of a letter or other written statement on the
stationery of the organization in question stating that the organization has
authorized the person(s) in question to solicit funds in its name and on its
behalf.
      (2)   Applicants shall submit their applications to the CEO or the CEO’s
authorized representative no more than seven days, or less than three days,
prior to the first date requested by the applicant for the proposed expressive
activity.
      (3)   No permit will be denied to an applicant based upon the identity of
the person(s) desiring to engage in the expressive activity. No permit will be
denied based upon the subject matter or viewpoint of the proposed expressive
activity. Permits shall only be denied based on the applicant’s failure to
provide all of the information required under division (1) above or failure to
adhere to the Rules and Regulations of the airport.
      (4)   Designated areas will be assigned on a first-come, first-served
basis.
         (a)   In the event that an applicant’s requested designated area has
already been allotted to other applicants for the date(s) requested, such
applicant shall have the option of either being assigned a different designated
area that is compatible with the proposed expressive activity for the date(s)
requested, if available, or having priority for the requested designated area
at the next available date.
         (b)   In the event that all designated areas have been allotted to
other applicants for any of the date(s) requested by an applicant, such
applicant shall have priority at the next available date.
      (5)   Upon determining that an applicant has provided all information
required by division (1) above and that there is an available designated area
compatible with the applicant’s proposed expressive activity for the date(s)
requested, the CEO or the CEO’s authorized representative shall issue a permit
designating the authorized date(s) for the proposed expressive activity and the
specific designated area assigned to the permittee for such date(s). Permits
shall authorize the permittee(s) to engage in expressive activity for a maximum
of five days before the permittee is required to submit a new application.
      (6)   Permittees shall only engage in expressive activity in accordance
with the following terms and conditions, which shall:
         (a)   Authorize the permittee(s) to engage in expressive activity at
the airport only in the specific designated area marked on the permit;
         (b)   Authorize only those persons listed on the permittee’s
application to participate in expressive activity;
         (c)   Limit expressive activity at the airport to the hours between 9:
00 a.m. and 11:59 p.m.;
         (d)   Limit signs to no more than six square feet in area per person;
         (e)   Limit each designated area to one easel (or similar stand) for
the display of signs, which shall be no more than five feet in height;
         (f)   Prohibit the placement, affixation, or other attachment of any
matter, whether written, symbolic, or graphic-to any airport structure or
facility;
         (g)   Prohibit the use of any sound or voice amplification device;
         (h)   Prohibit repeated communications or encounters with the same
person, physically disturbing any person, or soliciting, harassing, or
proselytizing any person who has clearly communicated a desire to be left
alone;
         (i)   Prohibit each permittee from misrepresenting his or her identity
or indicating to the public that he or she is a representative of the airport
or the Board;
         (j)   Prohibit each permittee’s use of any airport electrical outlet
in connection with the permittee’s expressive activity;
         (k)   Prohibit the display or distribution of any:
            1.   Obscene material; and
            2.   Material that is directed to inciting or producing imminent
lawless action and is likely to incite or produce such action, or otherwise
violates any local, state, or federal law or regulation;
         (l)   Require each permittee, upon arrival at the airport on each day
that expressive activity has been authorized, to check-in at the location
designated on the application, at which point each permittee shall furnish all
items and materials to be utilized in the permittee’s expressive activity in
order to ensure compliance with the Rules and Regulations of the Board; and
         (m)   Require each permittee to clearly display at all times, on the
permittee’s outermost layer of clothing, the badge or insignia issued by the
CEO or the CEO’s authorized representative.
   205.07 Miscellaneous.
      (1)   The CEO or the CEO’s authorized representative(s) may declare an
emergency on account of unusually congested conditions at the airport, on
account of emergency conditions or circumstances that disrupt the normal
operations of the airport, or on account of health and safety measures. In the
event that such an emergency is declared, an announcement will be made. All
permittees shall immediately cease expressive activities for the duration of
such CEO’s authorized representative when the emergency has ended, at which
time activities may be resumed. Under no circumstances shall the emergency
powers granted hereunder be exercised for the primary purpose of suppressing
speech.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing, without further need to amend the
Rules and Regulations and without further Board action, the CEO may add,
delete, or relocate designated areas to provide for the orderly flow of
pedestrian traffic, or in the interest of safety, aesthetics, security, or as
may be required by construction, renovation, demolition, or improvements at the
airport. Any additions, deletions, or relocations of the designated area must
be authorized in writing by the CEO, which writing shall contain amended
Exhibits A-1 through A-4 and be filed with the Secretary of the Board.
      (3)   The CEO or the CEO’s authorized representative has the authority to
revoke a permit if the permittee fails to abide by the terms and conditions of
the permit or violates any other provision of the Rules and Regulations of the
Board.
      (4)   For each and every breach of any provision of Regulation 205 et
seq., a person is subject to the penalties set forth or referred to at Rule 900
of the Rules and Regulations of the Board.
      (5)   Any person who has obtained a permit and has breached any provision
of Rule 205 on two or more occasions shall be barred from receiving a permit
for one calendar year from the date of the second breach.
      (6)   This Regulation
205.00 is a part of the Rules and Regulations of the Board, and accordingly,
among other things, Regulation
201.00 (Severability or Invalidity) is applicable.
   205.08 Commercial speech.
      (1)   The CEO has the authority to promulgate a written policy governing
commercial displays and advertisements at the airport, which shall be made
available to the public upon request.
      (2)   No person shall engage in commercial activity at the airport,
except as provided under Rule 400.00 of these Rules and Regulations.
RULE 300.00: PERSONAL CONDUCT
RULE 300.00: PERSONAL CONDUCT
Regulation
   
301.00   Compliance with federal, state, and/or local laws or regulations
   
302.00   General prudential rule
   
303.00   Preservation of property
   
304.00   Restricted area
   
305.00   Environmental
      
305.01   Sanitation
      
305.02   Trash
      
305.03   Removal of gas, oil, grease, etc.
   
306.00   Animals
   
307.00   Smoking or carrying lighted materials or open flame
   
308.00   Protection of feet
   
309.00   Firearms prohibited
301.00 COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL, STATE, AND/OR LOCAL LAWS OR REGULATIONS.
   Every person using the airport, every tenant, and every other person doing
business with the Board or at the airport, shall comply with all federal,
state, and/or local laws, regulations, orders, and/or decisions, including
those of executive, legislative, or judicial agencies or bodies, now or
hereafter in effect, and applicable to the person’s use of, or operations at,
the airport.
302.00 GENERAL PRUDENTIAL RULE.
   No person in or upon the airport shall, through act or omission,
unreasonably endanger, or likely unreasonably endanger, persons or property.   
303.00 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   No person shall destroy, injure, deface, or disturb in any way any building,
sign, equipment, marker or other structure, tree, flower, lawn or other
property on the airport except under written contract with the Board; nor
willfully abandon any personal property on the airport; nor walk on the lawns
and seeded areas of the airport.
304.00 RESTRICTED AREA.
   (A)   No person shall enter into any restricted area except:
      (1)   Those persons authorized to go into such area by the CEO or the
COO;
      (2)   Airport employees authorized to go into such area; or
      (3)   Airport tenants or their employees authorized to go into such area.
   (B)   Any person authorized to go into a restricted area shall provide
indemnity and insurance protection to the Board of a nature and in an amount as
determined by the Board or the CEO.
305.00 ENVIRONMENTAL.
   305.01 Sanitation. No person shall dispose of garbage, papers, rubbish or
other material on airport except in the receptacles provided for that purpose;
nor use a comfort station other than in a clean and sanitary manner; nor
consume food or drink beverages in the terminal buildings other than in areas
designated for such purposes; nor expectorate on the floors, walls, or other
surfaces of any airport building.
   305.02 Trash. No airport tenant shall keep uncovered trash containers in any
area. No person shall operate a vehicle used for hauling trash, dirt, or any
other materials on the airport unless such vehicle is designed to prevent the
contents from dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping. The CEO and
COO shall designate areas to be used for trash or garbage containers at the
airport and no other areas shall be used.
   305.03 Removal of gas, oil, grease, etc. In the event of spillage or
dripping of gasoline, oil, grease, or any material which may be unsightly or
detrimental to pavement, or which might cause a safety hazard, the same shall
be removed immediately. The responsibility for the immediate removal of such
gasoline, oil, grease, or other material shall be assumed by the operator of
the aircraft or vehicle causing the event or by the airport tenant or
concessionaire responsible for the deposit on the pavement.
306.00 ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person may bring an animal into the airport except:
      (1)   Non-service animals to be or that have been transported by air.
Non-service animals to be or that have been transported by air must be properly
confined as set forth in division (B) below before entering the terminal
buildings;
      (2)   A service animal that is harnessed, leashed, or tethered, unless
these devices interfere with the service animal’s work or the individual’s
disability prevents using these devices in which case the individual must
maintain control of the animal through voice, signal, or other effective
controls;
      (3)   An animal which remains inside a vehicle at all times;
      (4)   An animal used for law enforcement and security screening purposes;
or
      (5)   Animals authorized by the CEO or designee for special events.
   (B)   All non-service animals permitted under division (A)(1) above must be
contained in a pet carrier or, if no pet carrier is present, the non-service
animal must be restrained by a leash and must be within five feet of the
handler. Such non-service animals must be completely under control of the
handler at all times. In accordance with applicable law, non-service animals
permitted under division (A)(1) above are not allowed in any restaurant or food
service facility at the airport. Non-service animals that are not in a pet
carrier are not permitted on any moving conveyance system at the airport,
except elevators.
   (C)   Airport police may exclude any animal, including a service animal,
from the airport when that animal’s behavior poses a direct threat to the
health or safety of others. For example, any service animal that displays
vicious behavior towards other guests or customers may be excluded.
   (D)   No person other than those authorized by the CEO or CEO’s designated
representative will hunt, pursue, trap, catch, injure, or kill any animal on
the airport.
   (E)   No person will feed or do any other act to encourage the congregation
of birds or other animals on the airport.
   (F)   No person will permit, either willfully or through failure to exercise
due care or control, any animal to urinate or defecate on the sidewalks of the
airport or within any airport building, except in the designated service animal
relief areas located at the airport.
307.00 SMOKING OR CARRYING LIGHTED MATERIALS OR OPEN FLAME.
   No person shall smoke or carry lighted cigarettes, cigars, pipes, matches,
or any open flame, or use any electronic cigarette in or upon the public areas
of any building on the airport, except in designated smoking areas. The CEO may
designate separate smoking areas within the public areas in any such building
where appropriate.
308.00 PROTECTION OF FEET.
   No person may tread bare foot in or upon the airport facilities.
309.00 FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For purposes of this Regulation, FIREARM means any weapon which will
expel a projectile by the action of an explosive.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person to possess, deposit, carry, whether openly
or concealed, any firearm in the AOA, secured area of the airport, or any area
identified on Exhibit C, attached and incorporated by this reference, for
purposes other than the purposes permitted by division (C) below of this Rule.
   (C)   The provisions of division (B) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any federal official, member of the Armed Services of the United
States, peace officer, police officer, or other law enforcement officer when
required in the performance of their official duties; and
      (2)   Any common carrier transporting a firearm consistent with 49 C.F.R.
§ 1540.111.
   (D)   The CEO, in order to provide for the orderly, safe, and secure
operations of the airport, has the authority to add or remove locations to
Exhibit C in the CEO’s reasonable discretion by filing an amended Exhibit C
with the Secretary of the Board and posting conspicuous signage of the
applicability of this Rule to any location.
RULE 400.00: COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
RULE 400.00: COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
Regulation
   
401.00   Conduct of business
   
402.00   Advertisements
   
403.00   Parking and storage of aircraft
   
404.00   Soliciting
   
405.00   Commercial picketing, marching, and demonstrating
   
406.00   Motor vehicle food vendors
   
407.00   Floor care
   
408.00   Waste
   
409.00   Notification requirement for work at the airport
401.00 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, for commercial purposes, any activity or
business at or from the airport, except by contract with the Board. No person
shall use, for commercial purposes, the airport for revenue-producing
activities, except by contract with the Board.
   (B)   No person, without a contract with the Board, shall engage in
commercial activity on the AOA or secured area without first filing an
application and obtaining a proper permit from the CEO or the CEO’s designee.
The CEO may exercise discretion in implementing a fee(s) related to the
application and permit so long as such fees are assessed in a reasonable manner
to similarly situated applicants and permittees (as applicable). The CEO or
designee will prescribe the form of the application and may from time to time
amend the application requirements and submittal requirements which may include
without limitation maintaining insurance coverages as determined from time to
time by the CEO and providing continuing confirmation of required insurance
coverages in accordance with the permit.
402.00 ADVERTISEMENTS.
   No person shall, for commercial purposes, post, distribute, or display
signs, advertisements, circulars, or any other printed or written matter at the
airport, except by contract with the Board.
403.00 PARKING AND STORAGE OF AIRCRAFT.
   No person shall use any area of the airport for parking and/or storage of
aircraft, except by contract with the Board.
404.00 SOLICITING.
   No person shall solicit, for commercial purposes, funds for any purpose at
the airport, except by contract with the Board.
405.00 COMMERCIAL PICKETING, MARCHING, AND DEMONSTRATING.
   No person shall, for commercial purposes, conduct or participate in
parading, marching, patrolling, demonstrating, distributing of pamphlets or
other materials, carrying or displaying of signs or placards in or upon
buildings, grounds, roads, walks, approaches, or any other property of the
airport, except by contract with the Board.
406.00 MOTOR VEHICLE FOOD VENDORS.
   No person shall operate, or cause to be operated, a vehicle in connection
with furnishing food, snacks, or beverages for sale at the airport except after
receipt of authorization from the CEO and completion of applicable safety
inspections.
407.00 FLOOR CARE.
   All airport tenants shall keep the floors of the hangars or other buildings,
terminal aprons, pits, and areas adjacent leased or used by them respectively,
free and clear of oil, grease and other flammable material. The floors of
hangars and other buildings must be cleaned daily and continuously kept free of
rags, waste material, and other trash or rubbish.
408.00 WASTE.
   Airport tenants may not place or leave or permit to be placed or left in or
upon any part of the common areas or areas adjacent to an airport tenant’s
demised premises any garbage, debris, or rubbish. Airport tenants of hangars or
other aircraft servicing or maintenance buildings, terminal buildings, or other
areas shall provide suitable metal receptacles with self-closing covers for the
storage of oily wastes, rags, and other rubbish and trash. All waste within
this general classification shall be removed by the airport tenants from the
airport premises daily.
409.00 NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT FOR WORK AT THE AIRPORT.
   (A)   No person shall perform any alterations, improvements, repairs,
construction, or other similarly related work:
      (1)   Within the terminal buildings and the restricted areas; or
      (2)   On other airport property that is not under lease with the Board,
without first notifying and obtaining a notice to proceed from the airport’s
Planning and Development Department.
   (B)   The approval process is for the airport’s internal purposes only and
does not relieve any person from compliance with all other applicable laws
related to the work. The process shall not be construed to be approval for
architectural or engineering design or compliance with applicable laws or
codes. This rule shall not apply to employees of the Board. Any public utility
desiring to conduct any work at the airport shall provide notice to the
airport’s Planning and Development Department prior to commencing any such
work, excepting exigent circumstances when it is not possible to provide
advance notice, in which case the public utility will provide notice as soon as
reasonably possible.
RULE 500.00: MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATIONS
RULE 500.00: MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATIONS
Regulation
   
500.01   Definitions
   
501.00   General requirements for all vehicles
      
501.01   Applicable law
      
501.02   Designation of roadways
      
501.03   Speed limit
      
501.04   Loading or unloading passengers
      
501.05   Parking
      
501.06   Removal
      
501.07   Compliance with directives
      501.08   Vehicle roadworthiness
   
502.00   Commercial passenger vehicles
      
502.01   Authorization required to perform airport trips
      
502.02   Authorization fees
      
502.03   CEO to act on Board’s behalf
      
502.04   Minimum eligibility requirements for authorization
      
502.05   Authorization via CPV permit
      
502.06   Authorization via CPV contract
      
502.07   Rules applicable to commercial operators and commercial passenger
vehicles operating on airport property
      
502.08   Suspension or revocation of authorization
      
502.09   AVI system
   
503.00   Non-profit passenger vehicles
   
504.00   Areas for cleaning and maintaining automotive equipment
   
505.00   Motor vehicle operation
      
505.01   Driving into a secured area behind another (tailgating)
      
505.02   Operating vehicles and motorized equipment
      
505.03   Identifying vehicles authorized in secured area/consent to inspection
      
505.04   Clear zone maintained
      
505.05   Vehicle escorts
      
505.06   Pulling more than three carts, four dollies
      
505.07   Failure to yield to aircraft
      
505.08   Driving outside the white lines
      
505.09   Driving within 150 feet to the rear of a taxiing aircraft
      
505.10   Careless/reckless operation of vehicle on airport
      
505.11   Speeding
      
505.12   Disregarding stop sign
      
505.13   All state laws applicable to vehicles on the airport
      
505.14   Passengers to be in affixed seat or designated area
      
505.15   Vehicle accident reports
   
506.00   Motor vehicle requirements
      
506.01   Vehicle registration
      
506.02   Vehicle equipment
      
506.03   Delivery vehicles
      
506.04   Dangerous vehicles or equipment
   
507.00   Autonomous vehicles
      
507.01   Authorization
      
507.02   Suspension
      
507.03   Board AV
500.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this Regulation 500 only, words and phrases shall have the
meaning set forth below, the meaning set forth in KRS 281.010 (as may be
amended, modified, or replaced), or their commonly understood meaning.
   AIRPORT GENERATED GROSS RECEIPTS.
      (1)   With respect to an off-airport rental car operator, those gross
receipts of an off-airport rental car operator that were derived from a person
who arrived at the airport by aircraft and who was transported, either directly
or indirectly, by such off-airport rental car operator to or from a rental
station operated by and/or for the benefit of such off-airport rental car
operator; or
      (2)   With respect to an off-airport parking lot operator, those gross
receipts of an off-airport parking lot operator that were derived from an air-
transportation passenger of the airport, or any other person accessing the
airport, who was transported, either directly or indirectly, by such off-
airport parking lot operator to or from a location operated by or for the
benefit of such off-airport parking lot operator.
   AIRPORT TRIP. Commercial transportation provided by a commercial operator in
which a passenger is transported to or from the airport.
   AUTHORIZATION. Permission from the Board for a commercial operator to
operate a designated commercial passenger vehicle(s) on airport property to
provide airport trips, subject to the terms and conditions of the commercial
operator’s CPV permit or CPV contract.
   AUTHORIZED COMMERCIAL OPERATOR. A commercial operator who has obtained
authorization and is in compliance with the terms and conditions of the
commercial operator’s CPV permit or CPV contract.
   AUTHORIZED CPV. Commercial passenger vehicle that is designated in the CPV
permit or CPV contract of its authorized commercial operator and is in
compliance with the terms and conditions of such CPV permit or CPV contract.
   AVI SYSTEM. The airport’s AUTOMATED VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM, which, in
general, is an electronic system that tracks the movements and monitors the
dwell times of vehicles on airport property utilizing electronic identification
tags (“AVI tags”) and readers.
   COMMERCIAL OPERATOR. Any person, including such person’s drivers, employees,
contractors, agents, and other representatives, who owns, controls, operates,
utilizes, manages, or leases any commercial passenger vehicle to provide
commercial transportation. For clarification purposes only, and without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, examples of COMMERCIAL OPERATORS
include: taxicab operators; limousine operators (which includes operators of
black cars/other livery vehicles); transportation network companies; charter
bus operators; and shuttle operators.
   COMMERCIAL PASSENGER VEHICLE or CPV. Any vehicle that is used for the
commercial transportation of passengers and their property. For clarification
purposes only, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, examples
of COMMERCIAL PASSENGER VEHICLES include taxicabs, limousines (which include
black cars/other livery vehicles), TNC vehicles, charter buses, and shuttles.
   COMMERCIAL TRANSPORTATION. The transportation of passengers and their
property by vehicle to or from points on airport property and points off-
airport property as part of a for-profit, commercial transaction, regardless of
whether the transaction is directly (i.e., the transportation is provided to
the passenger for a fare or fee) or indirectly (i.e., the transportation is
provided to the passenger without charge on a courtesy basis as part of a
separate transaction with the passenger) related to the transportation
provided.
   CPV CONTRACT. A contract entered into between the Board and a commercial
operator, in accordance with this Rule, which grants authorization to the
commercial operator subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Rule
and the contract.
   CPV OPERATING POLICY. The policy established by the CEO governing the
commercial passenger vehicle operations of authorized commercial operators on
airport property.
   CPV PERMIT. A permit issued by the Board to a commercial operator, in
accordance with this Rule, which grants authorization to the commercial
operator subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Rule and the
permit.
   DWELL TIME. The period of time during which a vehicle remains upon the
roadways, staging areas, pick-up, and drop-off locations on airport property.
   GROSS RECEIPTS.
      (1)   With respect to an off-airport rental car operator, all monies paid
or payable to, or considerations of determinable value received by, the off-
airport rental car operator, whether by cash, check, or credit, and without
deduction for credit card discounts or thefts, and whether the same shall be
paid or unpaid, including all charges billed by the off-airport rental car
operator, that are in any way related to providing a rental vehicle or any
other product or service at or from the airport, regardless of where the
vehicles, products, or services are delivered to or returned from; or
      (2)   With respect to an off-airport parking lot operator, all monies
paid or payable to, or considerations of determinable value received by, the
off-airport parking lot operator, whether by cash, check, or credit, and
without deduction for credit card discounts or thefts, and whether the same
shall be paid or unpaid, including all charges billed by the off-airport
parking lot operator, that are in anyway related to providing parking lot
spaces or any other product or service to customers accessing the airport.
   NON-PROFIT PASSENGER VEHICLE. A passenger vehicle operated by a 501(c) non-
profit organization to provide transportation of passengers and their property
to or from points on airport property and points off-airport property.
   OFF-AIRPORT PARKING LOT OPERATOR. Any person, firm, or company that provides
parking off-airport property to airport passengers in exchange for payment,
regardless of whether the operator is engaged in other business endeavors
unrelated to parking.
   OFF-AIRPORT PARKING LOT SHUTTLE. A shuttle used by an off-airport parking
lot operator to transport passengers to/from the off-airport parking lot.
   OFF-AIRPORT RENTAL CAR OPERATOR. Any person, firm, or company that operates
a rental car business off-airport property from which any portion of said
business is derived from enplaning and/or deplaning passengers of the airport.
   OFF-AIRPORT RENTAL CAR SHUTTLE. A shuttle used by an off-airport rental car
operator to transport passengers to/from the off-airport rental car operator’s
business location.
   PERMIT YEAR. The period of 12 consecutive calendar months from June 1 to May
31 during which authorization under a CPV permit is valid.
   SHUTTLE. A vehicle, commonly a van or bus, used by a commercial operator to
transport passengers to or from airport property and a fixed location(s) off-
airport property. Common examples of SHUTTLES include those vehicles used by
hotels/motels, off-airport parking lot operators, and off-airport rental car
operators to transport passengers between the airport and their respective
business locations off-airport property.
   VEHICLE. A motor vehicle.
501.00 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL VEHICLES.
   The following provisions shall apply to all vehicles operating on airport
property.
   501.01 Applicable law. Except as otherwise stated in these Rules and
Regulations, all laws, rules, and regulations of the Commonwealth of Kentucky
applicable to vehicles and the operation of the same are hereby made applicable
to the operation of vehicles on airport property.
   501.02 Designation of roadways. Pursuant to KRS 183.885, the designation and
classification of the roadways owned by the Board is set forth on Exhibit B,
attached and incorporated by this reference. The operator of any vehicle or
mobile equipment, when traversing any such roadway, must adhere to the
restrictions, as designated for each classification, as set forth on Exhibit B
and further must adhere to all other requirements of these Rules and
Regulations. The CEO, in order to provide for orderly flow of traffic, or in
the interest of safety, security, operations, or as may be required by
reconfigured or newly constructed roadways, or as a result of other
construction, renovation, or improvements at the airport, shall have the
authority to amend Exhibit B to these Rules and Regulations by filing an
amended Exhibit B with the Secretary of the Board.
   501.03 Speed limit. No person may operate a vehicle on the airport at a
speed in excess of 25 miles per hour if such area is not marked or designated
by a road sign setting the speed limit. No person may operate a vehicle in
excess of the posted speed limit in an area marked and designated by a road
sign setting the speed limit. Road signs designating the speed limit on the
airport shall be as authorized by the CEO.
   501.04 Loading or unloading passengers. No vehicle shall load or unload
passengers in any area on airport property except as designated for such
purpose by the CEO.
   501.05 Parking. No person may park or stop a vehicle in any area on airport
property except in such areas as may be designated for parking or stopping by
the CEO. Charges for parking of vehicles shall be at reasonable rates
established from time to time by the CEO, either by contract or otherwise.
   501.06 Removal. The Board may remove from the airport and may impound any
vehicle that is parked in any unauthorized area, disabled, abandoned, left by
the owner/operator, hindering airport operations, or otherwise permitted to be
removed or impounded by any existing law, rule, or regulation of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, all at the expense of the owner, by or at the
direction of the Airport Police Department, or the CEO. The Board is not liable
for any damage or loss of personal property arising from the act of removal or
any other cause.
   501.07 Compliance with directives. No person shall fail to obey any lawful
directive of any police officer, public safety assistant, or employee of the
Board.
   501.08 Vehicle roadworthiness. Before operating any vehicle on the airport,
the driver must ensure that the vehicle is in roadworthy condition. The
operation of a vehicle that is not in a sound mechanical and safe condition is
prohibited. The CEO reserves the right to inspect any vehicle at the airport
and declare it unfit for use on the airport if it is not mechanically sound and
safely operable. Vehicles declared unfit may be towed in the CEO’s discretion
at the owner’s expense.
502.00 COMMERCIAL PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   502.01 Authorization required to perform airport trips.
      (1)   (a)   No commercial operator may operate a commercial passenger
vehicle on airport property to provide an airport trip without authorization.
         (b)   A commercial operator may only obtain authorization in one of
two ways:
            1.   By obtaining a CPV permit from the Board; or
            2.   By entering into a CPV contract with the Board.
         (c)   The Board may provide authorization by CPV permit or CPV
contract at the Board’s discretion provided that the type of authorization is
uniformly applied to all commercial operator service types.
         (d)   A commercial operator who operates or intends to operate without
authorization is subject to a fine of $200 as provided in Regulation
904.02.
      (2)   An authorized commercial operator shall operate only authorized
CPVs on airport property. In addition, authorization is limited and specific to
those authorized CPVs expressly listed in the authorized commercial operator’s
CPV contract or CPV permit, as the case may be, and is not transferrable to or
among other vehicles in the authorized commercial operator’s fleet. CPV
contracts and CPV permits are non-assignable and non-transferrable without
prior written authorization from the Board.
   502.02 Authorization fees. To obtain authorization, whether by CPV permit or
CPV contract, each commercial operator shall pay to the Board the fees
referenced in this Rule for the use of airport facilities and services,
including, but not limited to, airport roads, curbs, parking facilities,
staging lots, lights, terminal buildings, traffic control, snow removal, police
protection, fire protection, EMS service, and other like amenities. The Board’s
purpose for the fees is not to charge a tax but to receive reasonable
compensation for the privilege of operating on airport property, the use of
airport facilities and services, and the benefit each commercial operator’s
business receives from the presence of the entire airport. This compensation
aids in meeting the Board’s obligation to make the airport as self-sustaining
as possible by defraying the costs to the public of constructing, operating,
and maintaining airport facilities and services.
   502.03 CEO to act on Board’s behalf. The CEO is vested with authority on
behalf of the Board to issue CPV permits to, and to negotiate and enter into
CPV contracts with, commercial operators.
   502.04 Minimum eligibility requirements for authorization. For the CEO to
grant authorization, whether by CPV permit or CPV contract, to a commercial
operator:
      (1)   The commercial operator must possess:
         (a)   A certificate of authority from the Kentucky Secretary of State
authorizing the commercial operator to transact business in the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, unless the commercial operator is a sole proprietor, in which event a
Boone County occupational license will be sufficient;
         (b)   A certificate of compliance issued by the Kentucky
Transportation Cabinet as required under KRS Chapter 281 (as may be amended,
modified, or replaced) authorizing the form of commercial transportation being
provided by the commercial operator or, if no such certificate is required
under KRS Chapter 281, an equivalent certificate from the governing/regulatory
body of the commercial operator’s home jurisdiction;
         (c)   A valid automobile liability insurance policy with minimum
coverage in amounts not less than required by KRS 281.655 (as may be amended,
modified, or replaced) covering each vehicle for which authorization is sought
that names the Kenton County Airport Board as an additional insured under the
policy, provided, however, that the Board may require greater coverage; and
         (d)   A valid commercial general liability insurance policy with
minimum coverage not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence that names the Kenton
County Airport Board as an additional insured under the policy, provided,
however, that the Board may require greater coverage.
      (2)   Each commercial passenger vehicle for which authorization is sought
must be properly registered and must meet all minimum safety requirements of
the Kentucky Revised Statutes and/or regulations of the Kentucky Transportation
Cabinet. The commercial operator must certify the same before authorization may
be granted. In addition, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, upon
demand by the Board, the commercial operator must provide documentation
evidencing that each commercial passenger vehicle that will be operated at the
airport has undergone any vehicle inspection required by the Kentucky Revised
Statutes and/or regulations of the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet.
      (3)   Each of the commercial operator’s drivers must possess a proper
license and meet all applicable eligibility requirements of the Kentucky
Revised Statutes and/or regulations of the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet to
operate the particular commercial passenger vehicle for which authorization is
sought. Each commercial operator must certify the same to the Board before
authorization may be granted and, upon demand by the Board, must present proper
documentation evidencing the same.
      (4)   Each commercial operator must agree to indemnify and hold the Board
harmless, as a condition of the CPV permit or CPV contract, for the actions of
the commercial operator.
   502.05 Authorization via CPV permit.
      (1)   Application.   Commercial operators desiring to obtain
authorization via CPV permit shall apply by filling out and returning a
completed application in the form provided by the CEO. In addition, commercial
operators applying for a CPV permit shall submit any supporting documentation
required under this Rule or that the CEO, in his or her discretion, may
require.
         (a)   The application form shall request, at a minimum, that each
applicant provide the following information in writing:
            1.   The full name, mailing address, telephone number, and e-mail
address of the commercial operator applying for the CPV permit;
            2.   The full name, mailing address, telephone number, and e-mail
address of the person responsible for the commercial operator’s operations at
the airport; and
            3.   A description of, and the license plate numbers for, each
authorized CPV that will be operated on airport property.
         (b)   The CEO may establish an administrative fee to defray the
administrative cost of processing applications, which, if established, the
applicant shall pay at the time the application is made.
      (2)   Forms of CPV permit. The Board will issue CPV permits in one of the
following two forms.
         (a)   Annual permit. An ANNUAL PERMIT is a CPV permit that provides
the permittee unlimited access onto airport property to provide airport trips
during the permit year. Before the Board issues an annual permit, the applicant
shall pay a registration fee to the Board for each commercial passenger vehicle
authorized under an annual permit. Once an annual permit has been issued, the
permittee is required to pay a per-trip access fee for each airport trip. The
authorization granted under an annual permit expires at the end of each permit
year.
         (b)   Daily permit. A DAILY PERMIT is a CPV permit that provides the
permittee unlimited access onto airport property for a single day to provide
airport trips. Before the Board issues the daily permit, the applicant shall
pay a registration fee to the Board for each commercial passenger vehicle
authorized under a daily permit.
      (3)   Fees.
         (a)   Prior to each permit year, the CEO shall have the discretion to
determine the registration fees and access fees for CPV permits for the
upcoming permit year, provided, however, that the CPV permit fees are uniformly
applied to all commercial operators based on the number and size of the
commercial passenger vehicles to be authorized under the CPV permit and no less
than the following amounts:
 
                                      Registration Fee Access Fee
Annual Permits
Vehicles capable of carrying up to 14 $100 per vehicle $3 per airport trip
passengers
Vehicles capable of carrying over 14  $100 per vehicle $25 per airport trip
passengers
Daily Permits
Vehicles capable of carrying up to 14 $25 per vehicle  No minimum
passengers
Vehicles capable of carrying over 14  $50 per vehicle  No minimum
passengers
 
         (b)   Payment of registration and access fees.
            1.   Registration fees. Before a CPV permit will be issued,
regardless of whether it is an annual permit or daily permit, the commercial
operator applying for the same shall pay to the Board the requisite
registration fees in the method designated by the CEO.
               a.   Commercial operators who submit an application for an
annual permit after a given permit year has already commenced shall have their
registration fees pro-rated for each commercial passenger vehicle to be
authorized based on the number of months remaining in the permit year.
               b.   Registration fees are non-refundable, regardless of whether
a commercial operator ceases operations at the airport prior to the expiration
of a permit year.
            2.   Access fees. Authorized commercial operators who have been
issued an annual permit shall pay to the Board the requisite access fees for
each airport trip in the method designated by the CEO.
      (4)   Issuance. The CEO shall only issue a CPV permit to a commercial
operator after finding that the commercial operator has satisfied all
applicable requirements of this Rule and that the issuance of the same would
contribute to the efficiency, safety, and convenience of handling the flow of
traffic and passengers at the airport. While it is the Board’s general intent
that CPV permits will be made available to any commercial operator who meets
the eligibility requirements of this Regulation, when conditions at the airport
present undue operational problems (such as vehicle congestion, construction,
etc.) to the efficient, safe, and convenient flow of traffic and passengers at
the airport, the CEO, in his or her reasonable discretion, may establish a
quota for the number of CPV permits that will be issued in a given year, the
number of authorized CPVs under any one CPV permit, or both. In such event, CPV
permits shall be issued on a first-come, first-served basis each year to
commercial operators satisfying the eligibility requirements of this Rule until
the quota has been reached. Alternatively, if the conditions presenting the
undue operational problems are temporary, the CEO, in his or her discretion,
may suspend issuing any further CPV permits until such time as those conditions
cease to exist.
      (5)   Permit stickers. Except for daily permits, upon the CEO’s approval
and issuance of a CPV permit, the permittee will receive color-coded permit
stickers for each authorized CPV. Permit stickers must be affixed to the driver
side rear bumper of each authorized CPV. There is a fee of $25 to replace a
lost, damaged, or stolen permit sticker.
   502.06 Authorization via CPV contract.
      (1)   Fees.
         (a)   1.   For each CPV contract, the CEO shall have the discretion to
determine the amount of the fees the commercial operator must pay to the Board
by establishing fees and the method of payment in the terms of the CPV
contract, provided that such fees shall be no less than the following minimum
amounts for the listed CPVs:
 
Off-
airport  10% of the off-airport parking lot operator’s airport generated gross
parking  receipts
lot
shuttles
Off-
airport  10% of the off-airport rental car operator’s airport generated gross
rental   receipts
car
shuttles
TNC      $3 per airport trip
vehicles
All
other    $2 per airport trip
CPVs
 
            2.   In determining the amount of the fees, the CEO shall take into
consideration, among other factors, the revenue needed properly to expand and
maintain the airport and airport facilities; the type of CPV being utilized;
the nature of the commercial operator’s business, including whether and to what
extent the business is dependent upon the existence of the airport and the
relative benefits the business bestows upon the airport; the desire to provide
the traveling public with affordable means of transportation; the anticipated
volume of vehicular traffic; the fees charged by other airports for the
particular type of CPV; and the airport’s obligation to remain as self-
sustaining as possible.
         (b)   Each CPV contract shall require the commercial operator to keep
full and accurate books and records showing gross receipts or airport trip
fees, as the case may be, and to allow the Board to inspect such books and
records upon request.
      (2)   The CEO shall only enter into a CPV contract with a commercial
operator after finding that the commercial operator has satisfied all
applicable requirements of this Rule and that entering into the CPV contract
would contribute to the efficiency, safety, and convenience of handling the
flow of traffic and passenger pickups at the airport.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this Rule to the contrary,
if a commercial operator desires to operate at the airport in a form of
commercial transportation not expressly contemplated in this Rule, the CEO may
grant authorization to such commercial operator by entering into a CPV contract
with the same. The CEO shall require fees commensurate with the fees paid by
those commercial operators providing the most similar form of commercial
transportation at the airport.
   502.07 Rules applicable to commercial operators and commercial passenger
vehicles operating on airport property.
      (1)   Authorized commercial operators shall conduct only the business
activities (i.e., commercial transportation) specifically authorized in their
CPV permit or CPV contract.
      (2)   Drivers of commercial passenger vehicles shall be courteous, clean,
and neat in appearance while on airport property.
      (3)   Commercial passenger vehicles operating on airport property shall
be properly registered and licensed, maintained in a safe operating condition,
kept clean and neat in appearance.
      (4)   While on airport property or providing ground transportation to
airport passengers, no commercial operator shall:
         (a)   Advertise for or solicit customers or business;
         (b)   Harass prospective customers;
         (c)   Engage in rude or boisterous behavior or conversation;
         (d)   Engage in the use of profanity;
         (e)   Engage in threatening or violent behavior;
         (f)   Engage in any activity that would constitute a breach of the
peace;
         (g)   Disparage or provide misleading information concerning other
commercial operators;
         (h)   Smoke any cigarette or other tobacco product, or use any
electronic cigarette, in non-designated smoking areas; or
         (i)   Engage in any activity that is contrary to the Board’s Rules and
Regulations.
      (5)   CPV operating policy. The CEO shall promulgate a CPV operating
policy establishing policies and procedures applicable to all commercial
passenger vehicle operations on airport property, regardless of whether
authorization has been obtained from the Board. The content of the CPV
operating policy is at the CEO’s discretion to ensure that commercial passenger
vehicle operations at the airport are as efficient, safe, and convenient as
possible. Subject matter of the CPV operating policy shall include, but not be
limited to, passenger drop-off and pick-up locations for particular types of
commercial passenger vehicles, staging areas and staging times for particular
types of commercial passenger vehicles, and other rules governing particular
types of commercial passenger vehicles and their operations that the CEO, in
his or her discretion, deems appropriate. All commercial operators, whether
authorized or not, shall adhere to the CPV operating policy at all times while
on airport property.
         (a)   A copy of the CPV operating policy shall be provided to each
authorized commercial operator at the time authorization is granted.
         (b)   Authorized commercial operators shall likewise be informed
whenever changes are made to the CPV operating policy.
         (c)   Copies of the CPV operating policy are available online at:
https://www.cvgairport.com/about/biz/permits.
         (d)   Authorized commercial operators are responsible for informing
their drivers, employees, contractors, agents, and other representatives of the
CPV operating policy, the obligation to adhere to the CPV operating policy
while on airport property, and where to obtain a copy of the CPV operating
policy for review. Although not required, authorized commercial operators are
strongly encouraged to disseminate the CPV operating policy to such drivers,
employees, contractors, agents, and other representatives who will operate on
airport property.
      (6)   Special civil offenses and penalties pursuant to KRS 183.885.
Notwithstanding any other provision of these Rules and Regulations to the
contrary, pursuant to the lawful authority vested in the Board under KRS
183.885, violation of any of the following provisions shall be deemed a civil
offense and violators shall incur and be assessed a fine in the amounts
specified. In addition to the fines specified below, repeated violations of the
following provisions may result in suspension or revocation of the violator’s
authorization as set forth in Regulation
502.08 of this Rule.
         (a)   Dwell times.
            1.   Designated staging areas. No authorized commercial operator
shall dwell in a designated staging area (as established in the CPV operating
policy) for a period greater than the limit established for the designated
staging area in the CPV operating policy. Any authorized commercial operator
who violates this provision shall incur a penalty of $1 for every ten minutes,
or partial ten minutes, that the authorized commercial operator continues to
dwell in the designated staging area thereafter. By way of example only: if the
CPV operating policy limits dwell time in a designated staging area to no more
than two hours, an authorized commercial operator who dwells in such designated
staging area for a period of two hours and 22 minutes, shall incur a penalty of
$3.
            2.   Designated pickup/drop-off areas. No authorized commercial
operator shall dwell in a designated pick-up/drop-off area (as set forth in the
CPV operating policy) for a period greater than the limit established for the
designated pick-up area in the CPV operating policy. Any authorized commercial
operator who violates this provision shall incur a penalty of $1 for each
minute, or partial minute, that the authorized commercial operator continues to
dwell in the designated pick-up area thereafter. By way of example only: if the
CPV operating policy limits dwell time in a designated pick-up area to no more
than five minutes, an authorized commercial operator who dwells in such
designated pick-up area for a period of seven minutes 37 seconds shall incur a
penalty of $3.
         (b)   Designated drop-off/pick-up location requirements. No authorized
commercial operator shall stage or provide airport trips in any area other than
those designated for such purposes in the CPV operating policy unless
specifically exempted from such requirement under the CPV operating policy.
Authorized commercial operators who violate this provision shall incur a
penalty of $25 for each occurrence.
         (c)   Continuous circling of terminal on airport roadways. No
authorized commercial operator shall circle the airport terminal on airport
roadways more than three times in a one-hour period without providing an
airport trip. Any authorized commercial operator who violates this provision
shall incur a penalty of $50 for each occurrence.
      (7)   For purposes of clarity, the acts and omissions of drivers,
employees, contractors, agents, and other representatives of a commercial
operator are deemed to be the acts and omissions of the commercial operator.
   502.08 Suspension or revocation of authorization.
      (1)   The CEO may suspend or revoke an authorized commercial operator’s
authorization, subject to a hearing, whenever the CEO has reason to believe
that the authorized commercial operator:
         (a)   Has violated any rule, regulation, or ordinance of the Board or
provision of its CPV permit or CPV contract, as the case may be;
         (b)   Has repeatedly violated the CPV operating policy;
         (c)   Has, upon airport property, violated any federal, state, or
local law or ordinance;
         (d)   Has, off airport property, violated any federal, state, or local
law or ordinance, provided that such violation bears a reasonable relationship
to the fitness of the commercial operator to provide commercial transportation;
         (e)   Has been issued a CPV permit without making proper application
for a CPV permit; has misrepresented any fact in the application; or is
operating in a manner not in conformity with information submitted in the
application;
         (f)   Has concealed or misrepresented any fact which would have
rendered the commercial operator ineligible to enter into a CPV contract;
         (g)   Has failed to provide or update any required documentation in a
timely manner;
         (h)   Has failed to remit to the Board any fee or failed to submit any
reports required under a CPV permit or CPV contract, as the case may be; or
         (i)   Has failed to pay any penalty incurred under this Regulation
within the specified time frame.
      (2)   The CEO shall provide written notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested, or by e-mail to an authorized commercial operator whose
authorization is subject to suspension or revocation. Said notice shall be sent
to the mailing address or e-mail address of the commercial operator as
furnished to the airport on the CPV permit application or as set forth in the
CPV contract, as the case may be. In the event an authorized commercial
operator is subject to suspension for failure to provide or update any required
documentation or to remit or pay any outstanding fee or incurred penalty due
and owing to the Board, the notice shall specify the required documentation to
be provided or updated and/or the outstanding fees or incurred penalties that
must be remitted or paid to the Board before the authorized commercial
operator’s authorization will be reinstated. In the event an authorized
commercial operator is subject to suspension for any other reason, the notice
shall set forth the period of the suspension.
      (3)   An authorized commercial operator whose authorization is subject to
suspension or revocation under the provisions of this Regulation may request in
writing that the CEO conduct a hearing to determine if the suspension or
revocation of authorization is proper. The request for a hearing must be in
writing addressed to the CEO, Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International
Airport, P.O. Box 752000, Cincinnati, Ohio 45275-2000. The request must be made
within 15 days after the authorized commercial operator’s receipt of the notice
of suspension or revocation. If the authorized commercial operator does not
request a hearing within 15 days, the right to request a hearing is waived.
      (4)   Upon receipt of a request for a hearing, the CEO shall schedule a
hearing to take place not less than ten, nor more than 20, days after the
receipt of the request.
      (5)   Except in the event of suspension or revocation for nonpayment of
fees, an authorized commercial operator whose authorization is subject to
suspension or revocation under the provisions of this Regulation may continue
to operate on airport property during the pendency of the hearing and the
issuance of the decision by the CEO.
      (6)   In addition to providing or updating the required documentation
and/or remitting or paying the outstanding fees or incurred penalties due and
owing to the Board (as set forth in the CEO’s written notice of suspension), a
suspended commercial operator is required to pay to the Board a reinstatement
fee of $25 before authorization may be reinstated.
      (7)   Revocation of authorization pursuant to this Regulation shall
disqualify the authorized commercial operator; any partnership or corporation
in which the authorized commercial operator is a partner, director, or
principal officer; and/or any partnership or corporation in which the
authorized commercial operator may be substantially interested from seeking
authorization for a minimum of one year following the effective date of the
revocation. The CEO may examine the ownership or management of any commercial
operator seeking authorization and shall deny authorization to any person,
firm, company or corporation whose authorization has been revoked within the
past calendar year and who is substantially interested in a commercial operator
or who is a partner, director, or principal officer in a commercial operator
seeking authorization. The renewal of a CPV permit or CPV contract is not a
waiver, or the condoning, of any violation which occurred prior to the renewal
and does not prevent subsequent proceedings against an authorized commercial
operator. Any commercial operator who seeks reinstatement of authorization
after one year from the date of revocation may only be granted authorization by
paying all outstanding fees or incurred penalties due and owing to the Board.
   502.09 AVI System. The CEO shall establish rules under the CPV operating
policy related to the AVI system at the airport. Authorized commercial
operators are required to comply with such rules and to take whatever steps as
may be necessary to equip their commercial passenger vehicles to interface with
the AVI system. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, as part of
implementing the AVI system under the CPV operating policy, the CEO is
specifically authorized to establish fees to be paid by each authorized
commercial operator for the installation of AVI tags or replacement AVI tags on
each authorized CPV. In addition, the CEO is specifically authorized to utilize
the AVI system to automatically monitor, assess, and invoice an authorized
commercial operator for incurred penalties under Regulation
502.07(6) of this Rule. Authorized commercial operators who have incurred such
penalties shall pay the same on or before the date of payment specified in such
invoice.
503.00 NON-PROFIT PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No non-profit organization may operate a non-profit passenger vehicle
on airport property to pick up passengers from the airport without first
registering the vehicle with, and obtaining permission from, the Board.
   (B)   To obtain permission to pick up passengers using a non-profit
passenger vehicle, the non-profit organization must:
      (1)   Furnish adequate proof of its status as a 501(c) non-profit
organization under the Internal Revenue Code; and
      (2)   Provide any other documentation that the CEO, in his or her
discretion, may require.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the fact that non-profit passenger vehicles do not
qualify as commercial passenger vehicles, the CEO shall promulgate, as part of
the CPV operating policy, policies and procedures applicable to non-profit
passenger vehicles operating on airport property. Non-profit organizations who
have registered a non-profit passenger vehicle with, and obtained permission to
operate the same on airport property from, the Board shall adhere to such
provisions of the CPV operating policy made applicable to non-profit passenger
vehicles. In addition, the civil offenses and penalties referenced in
Regulation
502.07(6) may be made applicable to non-profit organizations operating non-
profit passenger vehicles as the CEO, in his or her discretion, deems
appropriate.
   (D)   The CEO may require non-profit organizations operating non-profit
passenger vehicles on airport property to obtain an AVI tag for vehicles and to
comply with such provisions of the CPV operating policy applicable to the same.
504.00 AREAS FOR CLEANING AND MAINTAINING AUTOMOTIVE EQUIPMENT.
   Persons may only clean or otherwise maintain automotive equipment in areas
designated for that purpose by the CEO or the COO.
505.00 MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATION.
   505.01 Driving into a secured area behind another (tailgating). No person
will drive a vehicle into restricted areas unless the person has used the
person’s airport-issued personnel identification badge and PIN to open any
electronic access installed at the entry point. No person will allow other
vehicles to follow or tailgate into restricted areas. This provision does not
apply to vehicles under escort.
   505.02 Operating vehicles and motorized equipment.
      (1)   No person will operate any vehicle or motorized equipment in
restricted areas except persons 18 years of age and older who possess a valid
state driver’s license: and
         (a)   Have been issued and possess an airport-issued badge designating
the person as authorized to drive and assigned to work within restricted areas;
         (b)   Are persons under escort by vehicles authorized to provide
escort services;
         (c)   Are persons under escort by the airport’s contract escort
service; and
         (d)   Are operating in accordance with the classification of the
roadway as set forth on Exhibit B.
      (2)   No person under the age of 18 years is permitted to operate any
vehicle or motorized equipment in the restricted area, including any operation
in which such person is being escorted.
   505.03 Identifying vehicles authorized in secured area/consent to
inspection. Vehicles within restricted areas must be readily identifiable, must
display a decal or sign of the agency name and/or logo on both sides of the
vehicle that is readable at a distance of no less than 250 feet, and must
display a ramp permit registered with the Airport Police Department. Board
vehicles and federal government vehicles shall display approved flags in lieu
of a decal and ramp permit.
      (1)   Construction vehicles requiring access to the air operations area
must be properly identifiable with company names and ramp permit. Special
equipment such as cranes, bulldozers, etc. are exempt from this requirement.
      (2)   Vehicles having no distinctive markings are required to be escorted
by authorized vehicles under radio control.
      (3) Consent to inspection. Any vehicle and the contents thereof,
entering, departing from, or being in the air operations area, secured area or
other restricted areas, is subject to inspection by the Airport Security
Coordinator, designated department employees, or any law enforcement officer,
for the purposes of determining ownership of such vehicle and its contents, and
for examining the documentation relating to the vehicle. The operation or use
of a vehicle by any person into, from or within the AOA secured area or a
restricted area of the airport constitutes consent from the owner, operator,
and/or user of such vehicle to inspection. Inspections relating to U.S. Customs
bonded cargo and customs seals are subject to the rules and regulations of the
United States Customs Service.
   505.04 Clear zone maintained. No person will park, store, or place an item
within four feet of either side of a security perimeter fence. This four-foot
area is the clear zone.
   505.05 Vehicle escorts.
      (1)   Only authorized vehicle escorts under contract with the Board to
perform vehicle escort services, and contractors specifically approved by the
CEO, are permitted to escort vehicles in the movement area and non-movement
area of the AOA provided that no vehicle shall escort more than four vehicles
at one time.
      (2)   Airport tenants with an airport-issued personnel identification
badge designating a person as authorized to drive within restricted areas may
only escort vehicles within their leasehold area and are not permitted to
escort more than two vehicles at one time.
      (3)   Vehicle operators shall follow all directions of escorts. Escorts
may park vehicles in a safe position and leave the escorted area only if the
vehicle operator has a valid airport-issued personnel identification badge and
the vehicle will not be moved to any other location(s). Escorts must be called
back prior to any additional vehicle movement.
   505.06 Pulling more than three carts, four dollies. Any person may not
operate a tug to pull more than three tandem carts or four dollies at the
airport, except when operating in an airline’s exclusive use area. For purposes
of this Rule 505.06, a dolly is a standard sized flatbed trolley or platform,
with many wheels, roller bars or ball bearings protruding above the top surface
for loading and unloading of unit load devices and cargo pallets respectively.
   505.07 Failure to yield to aircraft.
      (1)   All vehicle drivers shall yield the right-of-way to aircraft.
Drivers shall operate vehicles to avoid interference with aircraft operations
and other vehicle traffic.
      (2)   No vehicle driver shall cause an aircraft to take evasive action
due to the driver’s failure to yield. Evasive actions include, but are not
limited to, braking and steering to avoid a collision.
      (3)   No vehicle driver shall collide with an aircraft due to the
driver’s failure to yield.
   505.08 Driving outside the white lines. All vehicles operating on the AOA
will travel within the white lines that designate the ramp road, unless:
      (1)   The vehicle is operating in an airport tenant’s own leasehold area
or common use gate area; or
      (2)   The vehicle is operated by a Board employee or agent and in the
performance of their official duties, emergency services, or agency of the
federal government.
   505.09 Driving within 150 feet to the rear of a taxiing aircraft. All
vehicles and motorized equipment must pass to the rear of taxiing aircraft at a
safe distance but not less than 150 feet.
   505.10 Careless/reckless operation of vehicle on airport.
      (1)   No person shall operate vehicles in any area of the airport in
careless disregard for the safety of persons or property.
      (2)   No person shall operate vehicles in any area of the airport in a
willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property.
   505.11 Speeding. All operators of vehicles and motorized equipment shall
abide by all posted speed limits on the air operations areas.
   505.12 Disregarding stop sign. All vehicles and motorized equipment shall
come to a complete stop at all white hold lines and at all posted stop signs.
   505.13 All state laws applicable to vehicles on the airport. The laws of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky in regard to the operation of motor vehicles,
including traffic regulation, are applicable to the operation of vehicles on
the airport. Any person violating any provision of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes shall be subject to the penalties provided therein.
   505.14 Passengers to be in affixed seat or designated area. Passenger(s)
must be seated in seats permanently affixed to the vehicle or must ride in
areas of the vehicle designated for passenger travel.
   505.15 Vehicle accident reports. Any person operating a vehicle in the AOA
or secured area who is involved in an accident resulting in property damage in
which an investigation is not conducted by a law enforcement officer shall
report the accident to the airport operations center within 24 hours of the
occurrence of the accident.
506.00 MOTOR VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS.
   506.01 Vehicle registration. All vehicles operating on the air operations
area shall be registered with the CEO and no person shall operate a vehicle in
such area unless the vehicle is registered and the approval of such operation
is granted by the CEO or COO.
   506.02 Vehicle equipment. Vehicles operating on runways and taxiways must be
equipped with a two-way radio for communication with the control tower, unless
operating inside of designated zipper roads or escorted by authorized vehicles,
or such other safety equipment as may be directed by the CEO or COO.
   506.03 Delivery vehicles. Delivery vehicles will enter the AOA through the
security perimeter checkpoint located at the gate off Logan Road and must be
escorted at all times. Each such vehicle shall display a ramp pass issued by
the personnel on duty at the gate.
   506.04 Dangerous vehicles or equipment. No vehicles or motorized equipment
shall be constructed, equipped, or loaded so as to be a danger, or likely to
endanger, persons or property.
507.00 AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES.
   507.01 Authorization. The use of autonomous vehicles for business operations
is authorized on the airport, including, but is not limited to, the use of
autonomous vehicles on roadways owned by the Board, within the main terminal
and concourses at the airport, and in the AOA; provided that, any person
utilizing autonomous vehicles at the airport shall at all times:
      (1)   Comply with all federal, state, and local laws, regulations or
orders with regard to the person’s use of autonomous vehicles;
      (2)   Provide prior written notice to the CEO of the desire to utilize
autonomous vehicles at the airport. The prior notice shall include:
         (a)   All relevant information and material concerning the desired use
of autonomous vehicle at the airport;
         (b)   The geographic area of the use;
         (c)   The intended use; and
         (d)   Any other information as the CEO may require.
      (3)   Operate the autonomous vehicle only if approved by permit issued by
the CEO on a form prescribed by the CEO, which permit shall include a release
and indemnification in favor of the Board for such activities;
      (4)   Display the permit or decal issued by the CEO on the autonomous
vehicle and/or mark and keep marked the autonomous vehicle as may be required
by the CEO at all times while on airport;
      (5)   Operate the autonomous vehicles consistent with the permit and only
in such locations that have been approved by the CEO;
      (6) Ensure that the autonomous vehicle continues to utilize all safety
precautions and advancements and enhancements to provide for the safe operation
of the autonomous vehicle to avoid any injury to any person or property;
      (7) Ensure the autonomous vehicle uses onboard sensor(s), camera
technology, or other integrated equipment that enable the autonomous vehicle to
safely operate including, but not limited to, crash avoidance systems,
electronic blind spot assistance, automated emergency braking/stop/safe return
systems, park assistance, lane assistance or other similar systems that enhance
safety;
      (8)   Adhere to such standards and manuals the CEO may develop and
implement from time to time with regard to utilization of autonomous vehicles
and/or equipment on the airport;
      (9)   Comply with all directives issued by the CEO whether written or
oral while operating at the airport;
      (10)   Maintain insurance coverages as determined from time to time by
the CEO and provide continuing confirmation of required insurance coverages in
accordance with the permit;
      (11)   The CEO shall have the right in his or her discretion to approve,
deny or revoke a person’s use of autonomous vehicles at the airport at any time
by providing notice to the person; and
      (12)   All actions to be taken by the CEO under this Regulation
507.00 may be undertaken by a designee(s) of the CEO.
   507.02 Suspension. The Board may suspend the use of any autonomous vehicles
at the airport at any time, in whole or in part, in the interest of safety and
security. In that event, the Board will provide notice of the suspension,
appropriate actions, and a determination on the revocation of the suspension,
to all affected persons with a permit.
   507.03 Board AV. The CEO is permitted to deploy autonomous vehicles at the
airport for the business purposes of the Board as may be approved from time to
time by the CEO.
RULE 600.00: AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS
RULE 600.00: AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS
Regulation
   
601.00   Aircraft charges
   
602.00   Passenger facility charge
   
603.00   Radio
   
604.00   Starting aircraft engines
   
605.00   Aircraft parking
   
606.00   Ramp cleanliness
   
607.00   Aircraft accidents
   
608.00   Interfering or tampering with aircraft
   
609.00   Authority to deny use of airport
   
610.00   Airport control
   
611.00   Taxiing of aircraft
   
612.00   Areas for enplaning and deplaning
   
613.00   Cleaning and maintaining aircraft
   
614.00   Disabled aircraft, vehicles or equipment
   
615.00   Surface movement of aircraft
   
616.00   Aircraft fuel servicing standard
   
617.00   Fueling prohibited during lightning event
   
618.00   Aircraft fuel servicing locations
   
619.00   Letters of agreement with the FAA
   
620.00   Unmanned aircraft systems
600.00 AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS.
   All aircraft shall be operated in conformity with federal, state, and local
laws and regulations.
601.00 AIRCRAFT CHARGES.
   The owner or operator of all aircraft using the airport facilities shall pay
such charges, rates, or fees as may from time to time be established by the
Board, either by contract or by rates applicable to non-contract users. Use of
the airport may be denied by the CEO or COO unless satisfactory arrangements
have been made for payment of such charges.
602.00 PASSENGER FACILITY CHARGE.
   The imposition of a passenger facility charge (“PFC”), as well as the
collection, remittance, reporting, and use of a PFC, will be in accordance with
and as prescribed by federal law.
603.00 RADIO.
   All aircraft entering the control zone of the airport must have two-way
radio capable of communicating with the control tower for landing, take-off,
and taxiing instruction.
604.00 STARTING AIRCRAFT ENGINES.
   Only pilots or qualified personnel will start aircraft engines.
605.00 AIRCRAFT PARKING.
   Overnight parking of aircraft is restricted to areas designated for such
purpose by the CEO or the COO. Aircraft operators are responsible for the
safety of their aircraft and vehicles, including without limitation ground
service equipment, and shall have all aircraft vehicles either tied down or
chocked properly.
606.00 RAMP CLEANLINESS.
   During shut down, starting, or servicing of any aircraft, if fuel, oil,
hydraulic fluid, or other material is deposited on the ramp, the operator or
operators of the aircraft are responsible to have the deposits removed. Any
person, including the operators of aircraft, causing overflowing or spilling of
excess fuel, oil or grease on any apron areas is responsible for cleaning the
areas.
607.00 AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   The pilot or aircraft operator of any aircraft involved in any
aircraft accident as defined by 49 C.F.R. § 830.2 or excursion from normal
operating surfaces causing personal injury or property damage at the airport
shall report the event immediately to the Airport Operations Center (AOC) at
859-767-7777, and to the COO, CEO, or designee. After resolution of the event,
the aircraft operator shall make a prompt and full report of the accident to
the CEO or COO, and comply with all applicable federal laws for the reporting
of said accident or excursion.
   (B)   The aircraft owner is responsible for the prompt disposal of disabled
aircraft at the airport after release by the National Transportation Safety
Board and/or the Federal Aviation Administration and the Board.
   (C)   If an aircraft accident occurs, only personnel authorized by the Board
will proceed to the accident.
608.00 INTERFERING OR TAMPERING WITH AIRCRAFT.
   No person shall interfere or tamper with any aircraft or put in motion the
engine of such aircraft, or use any aircraft, aircraft parts, instruments or
tools, without permission of the owner or by specific direction of the CEO, or
the COO.
609.00 AUTHORITY TO DENY USE OF AIRPORT.
   The CEO and COO have the authority to deny the use of the airport to any
aircraft or pilot violating airport or federal regulations, whether at this
airport or elsewhere. The CEO and COO may prohibit aircraft from landing or
taking off at any time when or under circumstances which he or she deems such
landings and take-offs are likely to endanger persons or property.
610.00 AIRPORT CONTROL.
   (A)   All aircraft must be operated under the direction of the FAA control
tower. No aircraft can be operated except upon paved runways and taxiways, and
only in such manner as directed by the control tower.
   (B)   Any person using the airport for landing or take-off of aircraft,
specifically including but not limited to airlines, charter operators, and air
cargo operators shall comply with all lawful federal laws, rules, regulations,
and tower orders or FAA directives with similar effect, that apply to aircraft
operations at the airport.
   (C)   All aircraft shall observe and be governed by directives (covering,
but not limited to, altitudes and traffic patterns applicable to the airport
traffic area), imposed from time to time by the CEO and/or the FAA for use and
control of aircraft, for the safety and protection of the airport, and
approved, if necessary, by the authorized agencies of the United States
government. Any violation of such directives or restrictions in the operation
of aircraft is deemed a violation of these Rules and Regulations.
611.00 TAXIING OF AIRCRAFT.
   (A)   No person may move an aircraft on the airport in a careless or
reckless manner.
   (B)   No person may start or run an engine in an aircraft on the airport
unless there is a competent person in the aircraft at the engine controls, and
unless blocks have been placed in front of the wheels or the aircraft has
adequate parking brakes.
   (C)   No person may run an engine of an aircraft parked on the airport in a
manner that damages any other property or aircraft, or that blows paper, dirt,
or other material across taxiways or runways that endangers the safety of
operation of the airport.
   (D)   Each person operating an aircraft on a part of the airport that is not
under the direction of air traffic control shall comply with the orders,
signals, and directions of the authorized representative of the CEO.
   (E)   No person may start or taxi any aircraft on the airport in a place
where the exhaust blast is likely to cause injury to persons or property. If
the aircraft cannot be taxied without violating this division (E), the operator
must have the aircraft towed to the desired destination.
   (F)   Each person operating a large propeller-driven aircraft shall lower
its flaps when taxiing out of an aircraft gate position.
   (G)   No person may move a rotorcraft at a place on the airport (other than
a heliport) while its rotors are turning unless there is a clear area of at
least 50 feet from the outer tip of each rotor. No person may move a rotorcraft
at a heliport while its rotors are turning unless there is a clear area of at
least 20 feet from the outer tip of each rotor.
612.00 AREAS FOR ENPLANING AND DEPLANING.
   No aircraft operator is permitted to enplane or deplane passengers except in
areas designated for such purpose by the CEO or the COO. All loading and
unloading of aircraft must be in strict compliance with directives of the CEO
of the airport.
613.00 CLEANING AND MAINTAINING AIRCRAFT.
   Persons may only clean or otherwise maintain aircraft in areas designated
for that purpose by the CEO or COO.
614.00 DISABLED AIRCRAFT, VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT.
   The operator is responsible for the removal of disabled aircraft, equipment,
or vehicles in the air operations area. The Board reserves the right, at the
expense of the operator, to engage a contractor to remove disabled aircraft,
equipment, or vehicles in the air operations area when the COO, or his or her
designee determines that the disabled aircraft, equipment, or vehicle is
interfering with operations of the airport. If the Board engages a contractor
for the removal, the operator shall pay for the removal within 15 days of being
invoiced.
615.00 SURFACE MOVEMENT OF AIRCRAFT.
   In addition to all other applicable requirements set forth in the Rules and
Regulations, the following applies to persons operating or maneuvering an
aircraft on the surface in a movement area.
   (A)   An aircraft operator shall not allow anyone other than qualified
personnel to operate or maneuver aircraft in the movement area. Only qualified
personnel shall be permitted to operate or maneuver aircraft in the movement
area. Aircraft operators shall provide qualified personnel with all equipment
and information as required under the surface movement training policy. The
qualified person shall comply with the surface movement training policy while
in the movement area.
   (B)   The surface movement training policy is the minimum and basic training
required by the Board for an aircraft operator to designate qualified personnel
to maneuver or operate aircraft in the movement area of the airport; provided,
however, that the Board assumes no liability for the surface movement training
policy and it is the responsibility of each aircraft operator to establish a
formal program to ensure all appropriate training for safety, operations, and
compliance with law by qualified personnel while conducting operations at the
airport.
616.00 AIRCRAFT FUEL SERVICING STANDARD.
   All aircraft fueling operations, equipment, parking, and clearances must
follow the most current edition of National Fire Protection Association 407:
Standard for Aircraft Fuel Servicing.
617.00 FUELING PROHIBITED DURING LIGHTNING EVENT.
   Aircraft fueling operations are prohibited while the airport lightning
warning system is alerting.
618.00 AIRCRAFT FUEL SERVICING LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Aircraft fuel servicing must be performed outdoors.
   (B)   Aircraft fuel servicing incidental to aircraft fuel system maintenance
operations will comply with the requirements of National Fire Protection
Association 410: Standard for Aircraft Maintenance.
619.00 LETTERS OF AGREEMENT WITH THE FAA.
   Any letters of agreement, or any amendments, between the FAA and any third
party applicable to the airport must be delivered to the COO for review and
submittal to the CEO for approval prior to execution.
620.00 UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS.
   (A)   No motorless or unmanned aircraft, such as drones, kites, balloons,
and similar devices, shall land or takeoff from the airport without:
      (1)   Filing an application and obtaining a proper permit from the CEO or
the CEO’s designee. The CEO may exercise discretion in implementing a fee(s)
related to such application and permit so long as such fees are assessed in a
reasonable manner on similarly situated applicants and permittees (as
applicable). The CEO or designee will prescribe the form of the application and
may from time to time amend the application information and supplemental
submittal requirements to include items such as:
         (a)   All relevant information and material concerning the desired use
of motorless or unmanned aircraft at the airport;
         (b)   The geographic area of takeoff/landing;
         (c)   The intended purpose; and
         (d)   Any other information the CEO may require.
      (2)   Complying with all federal, state, and/or local laws, regulations,
or orders with regard to the use of motorless or unmanned aircraft;
      (3)   Taking off and landing the motorless or unmanned aircraft
consistent with the permit and only in such locations that have been approved
by the CEO;
      (4)   Adhering to such standards and manuals the CEO may develop and
implement from time to time with regard to the takeoff and landing of motorless
or unmanned aircraft on the airport; and
      (5)   Maintaining insurance coverages as determined from time to time by
the CEO and provide continuing confirmation of required insurance coverages in
accordance with the permit.
   (B)   The CEO has the right in the CEO’s discretion to approve, deny, or
revoke a permit for the takeoff and/or landing of a motorless or unmanned
aircraft at the airport at any time by providing notice to the permittee.
Operation of motorless or unmanned aircraft is strictly prohibited except as
expressly permitted by the FAA and/or the Board as may be appropriate under
applicable law or rules.
RULE 700.00: SECURITY REGULATIONS
RULE 700.00: SECURITY REGULATIONS
Regulation
   
701.00   Adherence to airport security directions
   
702.00   Entry to restricted areas
      
702.01   Unauthorized entry and exit/inspection
      
702.02   Entering a secured area by following another (piggybacking)
      
702.03   Walking across the ramp
      
702.04   Custody of keys or other means of access
      
702.05   Prohibit access to unauthorized persons
      
702.06   Authorized persons must challenge
      
702.07   Security of access points
      
702.08   Timed doors
      
702.09   Improper entry through security door
      
702.10   Posting signs prohibiting access
      
702.11   Preventing unauthorized access to restricted areas
      
702.12   Airport security contact
      
702.13   Bypassing security screening area
      
702.14   Failure to follow notification procedures
      
702.15   Entry into movement area, safety area and non-movement area
   
703.00   Tampering with security device
   
704.00   Badging
      
704.01   Issuance of airport-issued personnel identification badges
      
704.02   Surrendering airport-issued personnel identification badges
      
704.03   Displaying badge
      
704.04   Misuse of badge
      
704.05   Using the badge of another
      
704.06   Allowing another to use badge
      
704.07   Expired badge
      
704.08   Use of badge for job duties
      
704.09   Notify of changes
      
704.10   Badges as KCAB property
      
704.11   Attaching PIN to identification badge
      
704.12   Photos/video
   
705.00   Non-vehicle escorts
   
706.00   Statements against aviation safety or security
   
707.00   Interfere with flight operations
   
708.00   Unattended baggage
   
709.00   Presenting a weapon at a security screening area
   
710.00   Failure to control prohibited item
   
711.00   Report violations
701.00 ADHERENCE TO AIRPORT SECURITY DIRECTIONS.
   All persons will obey lawful orders and directions of airport police
officers or other persons responsible for ensuring compliance with these Rules
and Regulations. All orders or directions will be consistent with the airport
security program, Board Rules and Regulations, and applicable state, federal,
and local laws. No person shall fail to comply with any order, directive, rule,
or regulation of the Transportation Security Administration.
702.00 ENTRY TO RESTRICTED AREAS.
   702.01 Unauthorized entry and exit/inspection.
      (1)   Unauthorized entry and exit. No person will seek entry to or exit
from the SIDA except through designated entrances and exits. No person will
seek entry to or exit from SIDA over, under, or through fencing, walls,
windows, air, or other vents or marked fire exits except in an emergency.
      (2)   Inspections. No person shall enter the air operations area, secured
area, or a restricted area of the airport, except persons who enter pursuant to
this section, or employees of federal, state, or local government bodies then
having proper business there and bearing proper identification. No person
entering or attempting to enter, being within, or departing from or attempting
to depart the air operations area, secured area or restricted areas of the
airport, shall refuse to produce for inspection at the request of the Airport
Security Coordinator, designated employee, or any law enforcement officer, a
personnel identification badge or the contents, or both, of any vehicle, bag,
case, parcel, box or container of any kind in his or her possession. Where the
entry into, departure from, or attempt thereof is by means of a vehicle, no
person shall refuse to produce for inspection, after such request, a driver’s
license or department vehicle permit. No person shall refuse to produce at the
request of the Airport Security Coordinator, designated employee, authorized
Board contractor, or any law enforcement officer any document in the person’s
possession relating to the ownership or possession of cargo or freight upon
entering, leaving or being within the air operations area, secured area, or any
restricted area.
   702.02 Entering a secured area by following another (piggybacking). No
person will enter or allow another to enter into restricted areas except by
using the person’s personnel identification badge and PIN. No person will
follow another into secured area without first using their personnel
identification badge through any electronic access installed at the entry
point. Every person must ensure that no other person enters the restricted area
while the gate/door is open. This provision does not apply to a person under
escort.
   702.03 Walking across the ramp. All pedestrians will walk only on designated
pedestrian walkways in restricted areas and/or the AOA except to the extent
necessary to perform and/or to provide services on behalf of the Board, a
tenant of the Board, or a contractor performing work at airport.
   702.04 Custody of keys or other means of access. Only authorized persons may
have custody of, access to, or use of keys or other means of access used to
lock and secure restricted areas. Authorized persons may not duplicate or turn
over keys or other means used for access to restricted areas to anyone without
approval from the Airport Security Coordinator or their designee.
   702.05 Prohibit access to unauthorized persons. Authorized persons may not
permit unauthorized persons to have access to restricted areas unless under
escort by an authorized person.
   702.06 Authorized persons must challenge.
      (1)   Authorized persons must challenge persons not displaying an
appropriate personnel identification badge.
      (2)   For purposes of this section only, CHALLENGE means:
         (a)   To ask the person to see their personnel identification badge;
or
         (b)   To immediately notify the Airport Police Department with a
description of the person(s) not displaying a personnel identification badge.
      (3)   Challengers are not expected to place themselves or others into
dangerous situations and, if a challenger believes that making a verbal
challenge would do so, a verbal challenge need not be made. In all cases, the
airport police should be notified immediately and the unauthorized person
should be kept under observation to the extent possible until airport police
arrive.
   702.07 Security of access points. No person may leave open, propped, or
unsecured any door, gate, or access point leading to or allowing access to
restricted areas.
   702.08 Timed doors. No person may hold, prop, or cause a door, gate, or
access point to be open beyond the period of time allowed by a security device
unless an authorized person attends the door. When an authorized person is
attending a security door, that person must be physically present at the door
and must use their airport-issued personnel identification badge to activate
additional time for the door to be open.
   702.09 Improper entry through security door. No person shall enter a
security door improperly causing an alarm to sound or cause a police response.
   702.10 Posting signs prohibiting access. Airport tenants with access to
restricted areas on airport tenants’ property will follow these Rules and
Regulations by posting signs approved by the Board which prohibit access
leading into restricted areas.
   702.11 Preventing unauthorized access to restricted areas. Airport tenants
with access to restricted areas shall at all times keep the access secured or
staffed in a manner that prevents unauthorized persons from accessing
restricted areas. Airport tenants must retain keys or other means of access to
restricted areas under airport tenants’ control and issue such access only to
authorized persons.
   702.12 Airport security contact. Airport tenants with access to restricted
areas will appoint at least one employee of the airport tenant as the security
contact primarily responsible for the airport tenants’ leased area which
accesses restricted areas. Airport tenants will advise the Airport Security
Coordinator in writing of the person or persons at all times having such
responsibility.
   702.13 Bypassing security screening area. No person may enter a sterile area
through a security screening area unless first going through equipment that has
been installed for inspection of person(s) and their belongings. Armed federal
and local law enforcement officers on official duties at the airport and others
exempted by the TSA do not have to be inspected, provided they follow TSA
regulations.
   702.14 Failure to follow notification procedures.
      (1)   Airport tenants, through their airport security contact, must
provide immediate notification to the Police Department when:
         (a)   A person’s access authority has been revoked or limited;
         (b)   A person’s identification badge has been lost or stolen; or
         (c)   The tenant becomes aware that the access control system or a
component of the system has been compromised or threatened through any means.
      (2)   When an employee is terminated or quits with cause, the airport
tenant must immediately retrieve the employee’s personnel identification badge
and notify the identification office and/or the airport police. When
termination is normal retirement, transfer, or separation, the airport tenant
must contact the identification office by the end of the next business day.
Badges must be returned to the ID office within three business days.
   702.15 Entry into movement area, safety area and non-movement area. The
following applies to anyone entering in any manner or driving in the movement
area or a safety area as defined in 14 CFR Part 139, and non-movement area at
the airport:
      (1)   Movement area.
         (a)   No person shall enter or drive in the movement area or a safety
area at any time unless:
            1.   The person driving receives clearance from the Control Tower;
and
            2.   a.   The person possesses a valid identification badge
authorizing access to the movement area; or
               b.   The person is being escorted by a person possessing a valid
identification badge authorizing access to the movement area or safety area.
         (b)   If any person fails to satisfy one of the conditions set forth
in division (a) above, that person shall not enter or drive in the movement
area or safety area, even if given authorization from the Control Tower or any
other person.
         (c)   Any person authorized under division (a), above, to enter or
drive in the movement area or safety area shall comply with all Rules and
Regulations while operating in such area.
      (2)   Non-movement area.
         (a)   No person shall enter or drive in the non-movement area at any
time unless one of the following conditions applies:
            1.   The person possesses a valid identification badge authorizing
access to the non-movement area; or
            2.   The person is being escorted by a person possessing a valid
identification badge authorizing access to the non-movement area.
         (b)   Any person authorized under division (2)(a), above, to enter or
drive in the non-movement area shall comply with all Rules and Regulations
while operating in the non-movement area.
703.00 TAMPERING WITH SECURITY DEVICE.
   No person will tamper with or in any way hamper the effective operation of
the security access system.
704.00 BADGING.
   704.01 Issuance of airport-issued personnel identification badges. Before
any airport-issued personnel identification badge is issued to any person, such
person shall be subject to the necessary background check as required under 49
C.F.R. Part 1500 and any corresponding regulations issued by the TSA, as such
may be amended or superseded from time to time. In addition, any person, who is
found to have multiple, (two or more), previous convictions for misdemeanor
theft of any type, from any jurisdiction, within the ten years previous to the
date of the background check, shall be denied an airport-issued personnel
identification badge. If any person who has been issued an airport-issued
personnel identification badge is subsequently convicted of a misdemeanor or
felony theft of any type, which theft occurred at or in connection with the
airport, the Board may, in its sole discretion, revoke and/or refuse to renew
such person’s airport-issued personnel identification badge and may deny
issuance of a new airport-issued personnel identification badge to such person
for a period of ten years. Violations of this provision may subject said
individuals to penalties provided for under applicable local, state, and
federal laws.
   704.02 Surrendering airport-issued personnel identification badges.
      (1)   Each employer, whether a tenant of the Board or a contractor
performing work at the airport, of a person to whom an airport-issued personnel
identification badge has been issued shall surrender the badge(s) to the COO or
his or her designee within three business days of the completion of each and
every person’s services at the airport and/or the termination of the person’s
employment at the airport.
      (2)   The employer shall return the surrendered badge, along with the
following information, at a minimum, on a form and in a manner directed by the
COO or the COO’s designee:
         (a)   The full name, mailing address, and telephone number of the
subject person; and
         (b)   The date on which the person’s badge was rendered invalid by
either completion of services and/or termination of employment at the airport.
   704.03 Displaying badge. Every authorized person shall display the person’s
valid personnel identification badge on the outermost garment, above the waist,
and in plain view at all times whenever the person is within the SIDA.
   704.04 Misuse of badge. No person may falsify, forge, counterfeit, alter, or
tamper with any personnel identification badge.
   704.05 Using the badge of another. No person may use or attempt to use
another’s personnel identification badge for any purpose whatsoever.
   704.06 Allowing another to use badge. No person may allow or permit another
person to use or attempt to use the person’s or any other person’s personnel
identification badge, for any purpose whatsoever.
   704.07 Expired badge. No person may use or attempt to use an expired
personnel identification badge for entry into, exit from, or while inside of a
secured area.
   704.08 Use of badge for job duties. Authorized persons may only use
personnel identification badges in direct performance of an authorized person’s
official job duties.
   704.09 Notify of changes. Each person with a personnel identification badge
will notify the Board’s ID Department within ten days of a change in the
person’s name or home address.
   704.10 Badges as KCAB property. Personnel identification badges are the
property of the Board. All badges must be returned to the airport upon
revocation, suspension, or upon demand of the Board. (See also Regulation
704.02).
   704.11 Attaching PIN to identification badge. Persons may not attach and/or
write their PIN on personnel identification badges in any manner.
   704.12 Photos/video. Any person with a personal identification badge having
access to the AOA of the airport is prohibited from taking videos or photos
within the AOA unless the videos and/or photos are being taken as part of the
person’s job duties while at the airport or authorized by the Chief Executive
Officer or Chief Operating Officer.
705.00 NON-VEHICLE ESCORTS.
   A person performing an escort must, at all times, be in a position to
actively monitor, direct and control the movements and actions of the
accompanied person(s). Escorts are only permitted in the performance of direct
job duties. A person who has been issued an airport-issued personnel
identification badge may only be escorted in those areas where the airport-
issued identification badge does not permit access. In no other circumstances
may a person who has been issued an airport-issued identification badge be
escorted.
706.00 STATEMENTS AGAINST AVIATION SAFETY OR SECURITY.
   No person may make a statement to another so as to indicate that the person
or another may have possession of a firearm, bomb, explosive device, or other
weapon while at the airport.
707.00 INTERFERE WITH FLIGHT OPERATIONS.
   No person may intimidate, threaten, hinder, or obstruct an aircraft crew
member in the performance of the crew member’s official job duties or lessen
the ability of such aircraft crew member to perform official job duties.
708.00 UNATTENDED BAGGAGE.
   No person may leave any bag, luggage, box, or container unattended in
terminal areas of the airport that are accessible to the public.
709.00 PRESENTING A WEAPON AT A SECURITY SCREENING AREA.
   No person may place a firearm, explosive device, knife, or other TSA
prohibited item that could be used as a weapon into the inspection equipment at
the security screening area without first declaring such item. Only persons
authorized by the TSA may test security screening areas.
710.00 FAILURE TO CONTROL PROHIBITED ITEM.
   No person may be in possession of any item prohibited by the TSA or FAA in a
sterile area except for those persons who have demonstrated a need for the
particular item in connection with the performance of their duties at the
airport and have received the prior approval of the CEO, COO, or their
designee. Any such authorized person may not attempt to bring the item through
security screening devices in the terminal buildings and must remain in
possession of the item at all times.
711.00 REPORT VIOLATIONS.
   Authorized persons must promptly report to the Airport Police Department any
violation of these Rules and Regulations that they observe or of which they
have knowledge.
RULE 800.00: SAFETY
RULE 800.00: SAFETY
Regulation
   
801.00   Fire Code
   
802.00   Fire inspection program
   
803.00   Unsecure aircraft
   
804.00   Smoking prohibited
   
805.00   Fire extinguisher equipment
      
805.01
      
805.02
      
805.03
   
806.00   Explosives and other dangerous articles
   
807.00   Storage of flammable material
   
808.00   Improper use of fire exit
   
809.00   Operation of flame or spark producing device
   
810.00   Open flame operators
   
811.00   Preventing FOD
      
811.01
      
811.02
   
812.00   Creation of hazardous condition
   
813.00   Engine run-ups
801.00 FIRE CODE.
   All fire codes applicable to the airport as published by the National Fire
Protection Association and the Kentucky Fire Prevention Code shall govern all
operations on the airport and persons operating on the airport.
802.00 FIRE INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   The Airport Fire Chief has primary jurisdiction over all airport property to
operate, administer, and enforce the Board’s fire inspection program and the
Board hereby adopts Kentucky’s standards of safety (815 KAR 10:060) promulgated
pursuant to KRS 227.320 for that purpose, both as may be amended from time to
time.
803.00 UNSECURE AIRCRAFT.
   Airlines and airline personnel are responsible for the safety and security
of aircraft per FAA standards.
804.00 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   No person will smoke or carry lighted cigars, cigarettes, pipes, matches, or
use any electronic cigarette, or any open flame in or upon any fuel storage
area, public landing area, public ramp and apron area, aircraft parking and
storage area, on any open deck, gallery, or balcony contiguous to and
overlooking any such area, in any other place where smoking is specifically
prohibited by signs, or upon any open space within 50 feet of any fuel service
vehicle which is not in motion.
805.00 FIRE EXTINGUISHER EQUIPMENT.
   805.01. No person may tamper with fire extinguisher equipment at the airport
at any time or use it for any purpose other than firefighting or fire
prevention. All such equipment must be inspected and maintained according to
the National Fire Protection Association. Annual inspections will be performed
by ARFF.
   805.02. Signatory airlines must maintain one wheeled fire extinguisher with
a minimum rating of 80-B placed in the area designated for such extinguisher at
all leased gates. Any airline that has an aircraft parked at a common use gate
must provide a wheeled fire extinguisher with a minimum rating of 80-B while
the aircraft is parked at the gate.
   805.03. A wheeled fire extinguisher with a minimum rating of 80-B must be
within 50 feet of an aircraft while maintenance is being performed, during
fueling operations, aircraft cleaning, or the loading or unloading of
passengers while the aircraft is parked at all remote parking locations.
806.00 EXPLOSIVES AND OTHER DANGEROUS ARTICLES.
   No person may store, keep, handle, use, dispense, or transport in or upon
the airport any explosive, including, but not limited to, dynamite,
nitroglycerine, black powder, or gaseous poisons, without the permission of the
CEO, COO, or Airport Fire Chief. Before using these materials, a standard
operating procedure, including emergency procedures, must be submitted to the
Airport Fire Chief.
807.00 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE MATERIAL.
   No person may keep or store any flammable liquids, gases, signal flares, or
other similar materials in any hangars or in any buildings on the airport,
provided, however, that such materials may be kept in aircraft in the proper
receptacles installed in aircraft for such purpose, or in rooms or flammable
cabinets specifically approved for such storage by the CEO, COO, or Airport
Fire Chief.
808.00 IMPROPER USE OF FIRE EXIT.
   No person will exit or enter a building through a fire exit door, except
during an emergency.
809.00 OPERATION OF FLAME OR SPARK PRODUCING DEVICE.
   No person shall operate an ox-acetylene torch, electric arc, or similar
flame or spark producing device on any part of the airport, except in areas
within leased premises designated for such use by the CEO, without first
obtaining a cutting and welding permit from the CEO, COO, or Airport Fire
Chief.
810.00 OPEN FLAME OPERATORS.
   No person shall start any open fires of any type, including flare pots,
torches, or fires in containers formerly used for oil, paint, and similar
materials on any part of the airport without permission of the Airport Fire
Chief.
811.00 PREVENTING FOD.
   811.01. All persons shall maintain and control their property and waste so
as not to create any foreign object debris (FOD) hazard to aircraft at the
airport. FOD is any object found in an inappropriate location at the airport
that has the capacity to damage property or injure personnel.
   811.02. No person may damage the airport, a person, or another person’s
property through the creation of a FOD hazard.
812.00 CREATION OF HAZARDOUS CONDITION.
   No person, including, but not limited to, airport tenants within airport
tenants’ own leaseholds, may create, or permit the continuance of, any
hazardous or dangerous condition that poses an unreasonable threat to the
health, safety, or welfare of persons and physical property at the airport.
813.00 ENGINE RUN-UPS.
   (A)   All engine run-ups at the airport must comply with the Board’s surface
movement training policy and engine run-up policy available at https://
csinfo.cvgairport.com/. The surface movement training policy and the engine
run-up policy are the minimum and basic training and procedures required by the
Board for an aircraft operator to designate qualified personnel to conduct
engine run ups; provided however, that the Board assumes no liability for the
surface movement training policy or the engine run-up policy and it is the
responsibility of each aircraft operator to establish a formal program to
ensure all appropriate training for safety, operations, and compliance with law
by qualified personnel while conducting engine run-ups at the airport.
   (B)   Engine run-ups, excluding extended full-power run-ups, shall be
permitted on hangar ramps; provided however, that the aircraft operator shall
be required to have authorization from the lessee or owner of the hangar ramp
and shall ensure that the parking orientation of the aircraft will not endanger
or cause damage to persons or surrounding buildings, aircraft, or other
property. Engine run-ups are prohibited in the concourse areas and at passenger
gates. An aircraft operator’s use of any area designated for engine run-ups may
be terminated immediately upon injury to persons or damage to property.
Extended full-power run-ups are only permitted in the area(s) specified in the
engine run-up policy approved by the CEO.
RULE 900.00: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT
RULE 900.00: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT
Regulation
   
901.00   Fines
   
902.00   General
   
903.00   Federal, state, and other applicable law
   
904.00   Specific penalties
      
904.01   Parking and traffic penalties
      
904.02   Unauthorized commercial vehicle activity
      
904.03   PFC remittance
      
904.04   Restricted area access
      
904.05   Badge surrender
      
904.06   Penalty levels
   
905.00   Enforcement of ramp citations
      
905.01   Issuance of ramp citations
      
905.02   Result of ramp citation
      
905.03   Appeal of ramp citation
901.00 FINES.
   Any person charged with illegal parking in violation of Regulation
501.05 except as these Rules and Regulations provide otherwise, may, in lieu of
being summoned to the District Court for a hearing, pay a fine for the
violation. If payment is made within five days of the date of the citation, the
fine is $10. If payment is made more than five days after the date of the
citation but within ten days of the date of the citation, the fine is $15.
After ten days, payment of the fine is not permitted under this section, and
the violator will be summoned to the District Court for a hearing, and subject
to the penalties set forth in Regulation
902.00. All fines under this section must be paid to the Boone County Fiscal
Court, at the address designated on the citation. This section shall not apply
to parking violations within the air operations area, which are punished in
accordance with Regulation
902.00, or to dwell time violations listed in Regulation
502.07(6), which are punished as specified in Regulation
502.07(6).
902.00 GENERAL.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of the Board’s Rules and
Regulations shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $100, or imprisoned
not more than 90 days, or both (KRS 183.990(1)). Any individual person or
business entity violating or otherwise engaging in prohibited conduct under
these Rules and Regulations may be subject to general and administrative fines
as provided under this Rule 900 et seq. If the violator is an individual
employee or agent of an airport tenant, permittee, or contractor, the fine may
be assessed against the employer/tenant, permittee, or contractor at the
Board’s discretion.
903.00 FEDERAL, STATE, AND OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.
   Any person violating any provision of the Kentucky Revised Statutes and
regulations, federal statutes and regulations, and all applicable local laws
and ordinances is subject to the penalties provided in each applicable law. All
violations and respective fines may be cumulative of each other (one citation
may contain multiple fines) and shall be imposed in addition to and neither
exclusive nor preclusive of any other civil or criminal federal, state, or
local fine or penalty under the law or of any other remedy available to the
Board under the law or under a lease, permit, or contract.
904.00 SPECIFIC PENALTIES.
   904.01 Parking and traffic penalties. In addition to Regulation
901.00 and
902.00, any person violating any traffic or parking regulation may be denied
permission to operate vehicles on the airport, and any vehicle parking in
violation of these regulations may be removed and impounded by the airport
police or its designee, at the expense of the violator (KRS 183.885(1)(b)).
   904.02 Unauthorized commercial vehicle activity. Any person who violates or
intends to violate Regulation
502.01 is subject to a fine of $200 (KRS 183.885(1)(a)—(c)). It is prima facie
evidence that a person has entered onto airport property with the intent to
provide an airport trip without authorization if the person is observed in a
commercial passenger vehicle, other than an authorized CPV, dwelling on airport
property without a passenger or continually circling the airport roadways
without a passenger.
   904.03 PFC remittance. Any air carrier violating any provision of these
rules and regulations pertaining to the timely remittance of revenue pursuant
to 14 C.F.R. Part 158 is subject to a service charge at the rate of 10% per
annum on the past due balance of any such revenue.
   904.04 Restricted area access. Any person violating Regulation
702.10,
702.11, or
702.12 of these Rules and Regulations pertaining to operations and/or the
performance of services in restricted areas or the air operations area may be
denied permission to perform such services and work on the airport.
   904.05 Badge surrender. Any person violating the provisions of Regulation
704.02 is subject to a fine of not less than $50 per identification badge not
surrendered to the COO or his or her designee in the manner prescribed.
   904.06 Penalty levels. In addition to the foregoing penalties, individual
persons violating the provisions of Regulations included in the table of
Regulation
904.06(4) are subject to the penalties specified in this Regulation
904.06(1),
904.06(2), and
904.06(3). The airport police, Airport Operations Department personnel, or
other Board personnel as designated by the CEO will issue a ramp citation for
the violation. See Regulation
905.00 for Enforcement. The penalties provided for violations vary depending on
the particular offense with each offense being classified in one of the
following three penalty levels and with each of the three penalty levels
specifying elevated penalties for the second or multiple offense within the
penalty level within the past two years. In addition, violations of provisions
616.00,
702.15, and
711.00 carry additional penalties. A violation committed by a person two or
more years ago, or a prior violation that relates to a different penalty level
shall not elevate the penalty for the most recent offense.
      (1)   Level one penalties.
 
1st     Warning
Offense
2nd     Mandatory retraining within 5 days of the violation
Offense
3rd     One-day suspension from access to the AOA; the Board shall suspend the
Offense violator’s personnel identification badge until the violator and supervisor
        complete retraining at the airport ID office
        Immediate confiscation of the violator’s personnel identification badge by
4th or  airport police; the airport police shall hold the violator’s personnel
more    identification badge until the violator and supervisor complete retraining at
        the airport ID office
 
      (2)   Level two penalties.
 
        Immediate confiscation of the violator’s personnel identification badge by
1st     airport police; the airport police shall hold the violator’s personnel
Offense identification badge until the violator and supervisor complete retraining
        at the CVG ID office.
        Immediate confiscation of the violator’s personnel identification badge by
2nd     airport police and a suspension of the violator’s personnel identification
Offense badge until the violator and supervisor complete retraining at the airport
        ID office, but in no event for a period less than 7 days
3rd or  Suspension of up to one year or permanent revocation of the violator’s
more    personnel identification badge at the discretion of the COO or COO’s
        designee
 
      (3)   Level three penalties.
 
        Immediate confiscation of the violator’s personnel identification badge by
1st     airport police and a suspension of the violator’s personnel identification
Offense badge until the violator and supervisor complete retraining at the CVG ID
        office, but in no event for a period less than 7 days
2nd or  Suspension of up to one year or permanent revocation of the violator’s
more    personnel identification badge at the discretion of the COO or COO’s
        designee
 
   (D)   Penalty table. Violations of the regulations listed in the table below
constitute a violation of the level indicated in the same table row:
Regulation Title Penalty Level
Regulation   Title                                                Penalty Level
309.00       Firearms prohibited                                  Level 3
505.01       Driving into a security area behind another          Level 3
             (tailgating)
505.02       Operating vehicles and motorized equipment           Level 1
505.03       Identifying vehicles authorized in airport security  Level 1
             area/consent to inspection
505.04       Clear zone maintained                                Level 1
505.05       Vehicle escorts                                      Level 1
505.06       Pulling more than four carts                         Level 1
505.07(1)    Failure to yield to aircraft                         Level 1
505.07(2)    Failure to yield to aircraft                         Level 2
505.07(3)    Failure to yield to aircraft                         Level 3
505.08       Driving outside the white lines                      Level 1
505.09       Driving within 150 feet to the rear of a taxiing     Level 1
             aircraft
505.10(1)    Careless/reckless operation of vehicle on airport    Level 1
505.10(2)    Careless/reckless operation of vehicle on airport    Level 2
505.11       Speeding                                             Level 1
505.12       Disregarding stop sign                               Level 1
505.13       All state laws applicable to vehicles on the airport Level 1
505.14       Passengers to be in affixed seat or designated area  Level 1
505.15       Vehicle accident reports                             Level 1
506.01       Vehicle registration                                 Level 1
506.02       Vehicle equipment                                    Level 1
506.03       Delivery vehicles                                    Level 1
506.04       Dangerous vehicles or equipment                      Level 1
615.00       Surface movement of aircraft                         Level 2
616.00       Aircraft fuel servicing standard                     Level 1
617.00       Fueling prohibited during lightning event            Level 2
618.00       Aircraft fuel servicing locations                    Level 1
701.00       Adherence to airport security directions             Level 2
702.01       Unauthorized entry and exit/ inspection              Level 3
702.02       Entering a security area by following another        Level 3
             (piggybacking)
702.03       Walking across the ramp                              Level 1
702.04       Custody of keys or other means of access             Level 2
702.05       Prohibit access to unauthorized persons              Level 3
702.06       Authorized persons must challenge                    Level 2
702.07       Security of access points                            Level 2
702.08       Timed doors                                          Level 2
702.09       Improper entry through security door                 Level 1
702.10       Posting signs prohibiting access                     Level 1
702.11       Preventing unauthorized access to restricted area    Level 2
702.13       Bypassing security screening area                    Level 3
702.14       Failure to follow notification procedures            Level 3
702.15(1)(a) Entry into movement area and non-movement area       Level 3
702.15(1)(b) Entry into movement area and non-movement area       Level 3
702.15(1)(c) Entry into movement area and non-movement area       Level 1
702.15(2)(a) Entry into movement area and non-movement area       Level 1
702.15(2)(b) Entry into movement area and non-movement area       Level 1
703.00       Tampering with security device                       Level 3
704.02       Surrendering airport-issued personnel identification Level 1
             badges
704.03       Displaying badge                                     Level 1
704.04       Misuse of badge                                      Level 3
704.05       Using the badge of another                           Level 3
704.06       Allowing another to use badge                        Level 3
704.07       Expired badge                                        Level 2
704.08       Use of badge for job duties                          Level 1
704.09       Notify of changes                                    Level 1
704.10       Badges as KCAB property                              Level 1
704.11       Attaching PIN to identification badge                Level 2
704.12       Photos/video                                         Level 1
705.00       Non-vehicle escorts                                  Level 2
706.00       Statements against aviation safety or security       Level 3
707.00       Interfere with flight operations                     Level 3
708.00       Unattended baggage                                   Level 2
709.00       Presenting a weapon at a security screening area     Level 3
710.00       Failure to control prohibited item                   Level 2
711.00       Report violations                                    Level 1
801.00       Fire Code                                            Level 1
803.00       Unsecure aircraft                                    Level 1
804.00       Smoking prohibited                                   Level 1
805.00       Fire extinguisher equipment                          Level 1
806.00       Explosives and other dangerous articles              Level 1
807.00       Storage of flammable material                        Level 1
808.00       Improper use of fire exit                            Level 2
809.00       Operation of flame or spark producing device         Level 1
810.00       Open flame operators                                 Level 1
811.01       Preventing FOD                                       Level 1
811.02       Preventing FOD                                       Level 2
813.00       Engine run-ups                                       Level 2
 
      (5)   Joint and several liability; additional penalties.
         (a)   Both the person committing a violation of any Regulation and
that person’s employer shall be jointly and severally liable to the Board for
the amount of any fine.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties set forth above, for violations of
Regulation
616.00 and/or
711.00, the Board shall investigate the circumstances surrounding the
violation, determine the extent of the violation, and may issue up to a $500
fine for which both the person committing the violation and that person’s
employer shall be jointly and severally liable to the Board. Depending on the
severity of the violation, the person’s right to operate in the AOA may be
permanently revoked.
         (c)   Any person who desires to appeal the imposition of a penalty set
forth under this Regulation
904.06(5) may appeal the issuance of the penalty if written notice of appeal is
delivered to the COO within seven days after issuance of the penalty. The
written notice of appeal and the hearing procedure shall be the same as
provided for an appeal of a Ramp Citation under Regulation
905.00.
905.00 ENFORCEMENT OF RAMP CITATIONS.
   905.01 Issuance of ramp citations. In addition to the penalties set forth in
Regulation
904.00, airport police officers, Airport Operations Department personnel, and
other Board personnel as designated by the CEO may issue ramp citations to
persons for violations of the provisions included in Regulation
904.06(4). A copy of the ramp citation will be forwarded to the offending
individual’s employer with a letter from the Chief Operating Officer. Ramp
citations are divided into three levels, with each level having applicable
penalties for the first and multiple violations. See Regulation
904.06(1),
904.06(2), and
904.06(3).
   905.02 Result of ramp citation. If a person’s personnel identification badge
is confiscated, the person will be escorted from the secured area. If a person
is required to attend a recertification class, the person will not be permitted
access to the secured area until such time as the person has attended a
recertification class and if a person fails to attend a recertification class
within ten days after issuance of the ramp citation the person will be deleted
from the security access system. Individuals attending recertification classes
are required to sign a recertification form agreeing to comply with Airport
Rules and Regulations pertaining to restricted access. When a personnel
identification badge is confiscated or suspended a reasonable reinstatement fee
will be assessed.
   905.03 Appeal of ramp citation.
      (1)   A person may appeal the issuance of any ramp citation if written
notice of appeal is delivered to the COO within seven days after issuance of
the ramp citation. The written notice of appeal must state the offense (or
offenses) charged and the basis for appeal. Upon timely receipt of the written
notice of appeal by the COO, the penalty for the violation(s) will be suspended
until the hearing officer renders a decision, but in no event will the
individual be permitted access to restricted areas within a 24-hour period
after the person’s personnel identification badge has been confiscated.
      (2)   The COO, or his or her designee, will serve as the hearing officer
for all appeals. The hearing officer shall schedule a hearing to take place
within 20 days after delivery of the written notice of appeal. The hearing
officer shall provide written notice of the time, date and place of the hearing
to interested parties at least five days prior to the hearing. The hearing
shall be conducted on an informal basis. The airport police officer who issued
the ramp citation shall be present and the person charged with a violation
shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to present the substance and basis
of their appeal.
      (3)   After consideration of all the facts and circumstances, the hearing
officer shall furnish interested parties with a written copy of the facts and
basis of the hearing officer’s decision. If it is determined that a violation
did not occur, a copy of the decision shall be forwarded to the person’s
employer. If the hearing officer determines that the ramp citation was properly
issued, the remainder of the person’s penalty shall immediately be reinstated;
provided however, if the hearing officer determines that there exists
significant mitigating factors such that the penalty imposed under Rule 900.00
of the Rules and Regulations is not warranted after having reviewed all the
facts and circumstances, the hearing officer may impose a less severe penalty
than what is prescribed. The imposition of a lesser penalty does not affect the
level or number of the offense and does not affect or limit the imposition of
future penalties should future violations occur within the prescribed time
period.
EXHIBITS
EXHIBITS
   Exhibit A-1   Terminal - Ticketing Level Expressive Activity Designated
Areas - Section 205.04
   Exhibit A-1   Terminal Parking Garage - Ticketing Level Expressive Activity
Designated Areas - Section 205.04
   Exhibit A-2   Terminal - Baggage Claim Level Expressive Activity Designated
Areas - Section 205.04
   Exhibit A-3   Terminal - Passenger Train Level Expressive Activity
Designated Areas - Section 205.04
   Exhibit A-4   Tower Drive Expressive Activity Designated Area - Section
205.04
   Exhibit A-4   South Airfield Drive Expressive Activity Designation - Section
205.04
   Exhibit A-4   Wendell H Ford Blvd Expressive Activity Designated Area -
Section 205.04
   Exhibit B   General Requirements for All Vehicles - Designation of Roadways
- Section 501.02
   Exhibit C   Locations Where Firearms Are Prohibited Pursuant to Rule 309.00
Exhibit A-1   Terminal - Ticketing Level Expressive Activity Designated Areas -
Section 205.04
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4502094977eaa2eee3ba4231bf976912df96b50/
IMAGES/0-0-0-396.png]
Exhibit A-1   Terminal Parking Garage - Ticketing Level Expressive Activity
Designated Areas - Section 205.04
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4502094977eaa2eee3ba4231bf976912df96b50/
IMAGES/0-0-0-398.png]
Exhibit A-2   Terminal - Baggage Claim Level Expressive Activity Designated
Areas - Section 205.04
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4502094977eaa2eee3ba4231bf976912df96b50/
IMAGES/0-0-0-400.png]
Exhibit A-3   Terminal - Passenger Train Level Expressive Activity Designated
Areas - Section 205.04
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4502094977eaa2eee3ba4231bf976912df96b50/
IMAGES/0-0-0-402.png]
Exhibit A-4   Tower Drive Expressive Activity Designated Area - Section 205.04
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4502094977eaa2eee3ba4231bf976912df96b50/
IMAGES/0-0-0-404.png]
Exhibit A-4   South Airfield Drive Expressive Activity Designation - Section
205.04
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4502094977eaa2eee3ba4231bf976912df96b50/
IMAGES/0-0-0-406.png]
Exhibit A-4   Wendell H Ford Blvd Expressive Activity Designated Area - Section
205.04
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4502094977eaa2eee3ba4231bf976912df96b50/
IMAGES/0-0-0-408.png]
Exhibit B   General Requirements for All Vehicles - Designation of Roadways -
Section 501.02
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a4502094977eaa2eee3ba4231bf976912df96b50/
IMAGES/0-0-0-410.png]
EXHIBIT B - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL VEHICLES - DESIGNATION OF ROADWAYS -
SECTION 501.02
Operating non-registered vehicles/equipment on airport service roads:
In an effort to facilitate safe and efficient air and ground support
operations, the airport has designated certain publicly accessible, Kenton
County Airport Board owned roads, to also serve as “service roads”, which
permit non-state registered vehicles and equipment to operate in those areas.
The following requirements apply to airport service roads:
•   Vehicles, trailers, carts, and equipment must have operational tires and
solid wheels. Tracked vehicles and/or equipment that must be dragged are
prohibited.
•   Vehicles, trailers, carts, and equipment must have operational headlights,
tail lights, and brake lights, or be followed by a vehicle so equipped.
Escort Vehicles - Marking and lighting of vehicles: Per AC 150/5210-5, the
standard for identification lighting is a yellow flashing light that is mounted
on the uppermost part of the vehicle structure. The light must be visible from
any direction, day and night, including from the air. For vehicles and/or
construction equipment where a light is not feasible, a flag must be attached
that is readily visible. The flag must be at least a three-foot by three-foot
square having a checkered pattern of international orange and white squares at
least one-foot on each side.
•   Hand signals must be used for turning when operating equipment without turn
signals.
•   Vehicles, trailers, carts, and equipment must be insured and a copy of the
insurance must be with the vehicle or a corporate/company “blanket” insurance
card/document on file with the Airport Police Department.
•   Vehicle and equipment operators must have a valid driver's license.
•   All state and local traffic laws apply.
•   Vehicles carrying hazardous cargo, including fuel vehicles, tankers, and
fueling equipment, are prohibited from using the South Airfield Drive tunnel
regardless of roadway designation.
•   Baggage carts must have curtains/nets closed to prevent baggage from
falling off during transport. Baggage carts without curtains/nets are
prohibited unless empty.
•   Slow moving vehicles must be clearly marked with the appropriate emblem on
the rear of the vehicle, as required.
•   Equipment shall not cause damage to airport service roads.
Per KRS 183.885, non-registered vehicles operating on any county or state
roadway are subject to impound.
KY 236/Donaldson Highway is a state maintained road and cannot be traversed by
unlicensed vehicles or equipment.
Effective May 15, 2022
EXHIBIT C
LOCATIONS WHERE FIREARMS ARE PROHIBITED PURSUANT TO RULE 309.00
   1.   CVG Centre, 77 Comair Boulevard, Erlanger, Kentucky 41018;
   2.   Facilities Maintenance Building,100 Maintenance Court, Hebron, Kentucky
41048;
   3.   Fleet Maintenance Building, 92 Field Maintenance Drive, Hebron,
Kentucky 41048;
   4.   Field Maintenance Building 3, 95 Field Maintenance Drive, Hebron,
Kentucky 41048;
   5.   Glycol Recycling Facility, 2654 Loomis Road, Hebron, Kentucky 41048;
   6.   Airport Police Department, 3222 Terminal Drive, Hebron, Kentucky 41048;
   7.   Sign Shop, 3361 Logan Road, Hebron, Kentucky 41048;
   8.   Stormwater Treatment Plant, 707 South Service Road, Hebron, Kentucky
41048; and
   9.   Central Warehouse, 300 Maintenance Court, Hebron, Kentucky 41048.
The prohibition at the above listed addresses does not include the parking lot
areas of the above sites.
