KUTTAWA, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-14 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 08-12-24-09, passed 8-19-24
State legislation current through 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 96-8-5
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF KUTTAWA, KY.,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SAID CODE.
WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Kuttawa are incomplete
and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and indexing
thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the State Legislature of the State of Kentucky empower and
authorize the City Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate said
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the City of Kuttawa has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the City of Kuttawa
that:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Kuttawa as herein revised,
amended, restated, codified, compiled in book form are adopted as and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Kuttawa.”
Section 2. Said Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles, to-wit:
         Title I      General Provisions
         Title III   Administration
         Title V      Public Works
         Title VII   Traffic Code
         Title IX   General Regulations
         Title XI   Business Regulations
         Title XIII   General Offenses
         Title XV   Land Usage
         Tables of Special Ordinances
         Parallel References
         Index
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in said Code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of said Code except
as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in said Code; provided
such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any
right established prior to the effective date of said Code, nor shall such
repeal affect the
provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or
detaching territory establishing franchises or granting special rights to
certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of
bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or
personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land
to public use, naming or vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys
or other public places, nor to any other ordinance of a temporary or special
nature or pertaining to subjects not contained therein.
Section 4. Said Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the City Legislative Body and the Clerk of the City of Kuttawa
is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of said Code in the Office of
the City Clerk.
Section 5. Said Code shall be in full force and effect 2 weeks from the date of
its publication and filing thereof in the Office of the Clerk, and said Code
shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Legislative Body of the City of Kuttawa this 3rd
day of Sept., 1996.
 
                                    Neal K. Sexton /s/
                                    Neal K. Sexton, Mayor
ATTEST:
 
Katherine S. Dunn /s/
Katherine S. Dunn, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 97-5-5-2
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF KUTTAWA, KENTUCKY, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the first Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the original work of the Code of Ordinances of
the city of Kuttawa and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Kentucky code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Kentucky; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
KUTTAWA, KENTUCKY:
   Section 1. That the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Kuttawa as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the City of
Kuttawa, Kentucky, is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement
into copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the City of Kuttawa,
Kentucky on this 2nd day of June, 1997.
ATTEST:
Katherine S. Dunn /s/                          Neal K. Sexton /s/
City Clerk                                    Mayor
ORDINANCE NO. 98-6-1-2
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF KUTTAWA, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1998 S-2 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Kuttawa, KY, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky; and
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Kuttawa, Kentucky:
   Section 1. That the 1998 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Kuttawa, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 6 day of July, 1998.
Passed on First Reading       June 1, 1998
Adopted on Second Reading   July 6, 1998
Signed by Mayor          Neal K. Sexton /s/
Published in the Paper      July 29, 1998
Recorded by Clerk                                            
 
ATTEST:
Katherine S. Dunn /s/                          Lee A. Mc Collum /s/
City Clerk                              Mayor Pro Tem
ORDINANCE NO. 99- 7-6-3
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF KUTTAWA, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1999 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Kuttawa, Kentucky supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to Sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of KUTTAWA, KENTUCKY
   SECTION 1. That the S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Kuttawa, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law,
Passed this 6th day of July 1999
Passed on First Reading       July 6th , 1999
Adopted on Second Reading   August 2nd, 1999
Signed by Mayor          August 1999
Published in the Paper       August 25th, 1999
Recorded by Clerk          August 1999
Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 00-6-5-2
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF KUTTAWA, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2000 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Kuttawa, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Kuttawa, Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Kuttawa, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   Passed this  5  day of June,  2000.
Passed on First Reading       June 5, 2000
Adopted on Second Reading    June 13, 2000
Signed by Mayor          June 15, 2000
Published in the Paper       June 21, 2000
Recorded by Clerk          June 22, 2000
                                     Lee A. McCollum /s/
                                    Mayor
ATTEST:
Katherine S. Dunn /s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 01-7-2-8
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF KUTTAWA, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Kuttawa,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Kuttawa, Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 2001 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Kuttawa, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   Passed this  2  day of July,  2001.
Passed on First Reading       June 5, 2000
Adopted on Second Reading    August 6, 2001
Signed by Mayor          August 6, 2001
Published in the Paper       August 15, 2001
Recorded by Clerk          August, 2001
                                    Lee A. McCollum /s/
                                    Mayor
ATTEST:
Katherine S. Dunn /s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 05-07-11-07
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF KUTTAWA, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Kuttawa,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Kuttawa, Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 2005 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Kuttawa, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   Passed this  11  day of July,  2005.
Passed on First Reading       July 11, 2005
Adopted on Second Reading    August 8, 2005
Signed by Mayor          August 8, 2005
Published in the Paper       August 17, 2005
Recorded by Clerk          August 17, 2005
                                    Lee A. McCollum /s/
                                    Mayor
ATTEST:
Steven C. Long/s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 09-03-09-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF KUTTAWA, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Kuttawa,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Kuttawa;
   SECTION 1. That the 2009 S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Kuttawa, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   Passed this  9th  day of March,  2009.
Passed on First Reading       March 9, 2009
Adopted on Second Reading    April 13, 2009
Signed by Mayor          April 14, 2009
Published in the Paper       April 22, 2009
Recorded by Clerk          April 13, 2009
                                    Lee A. McCollum /s/
                                    Mayor
ATTEST:
Steven C. Long /s/
City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Kuttawa Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code. (KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010 (55))
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Any method of governmental, commercial, or electronic
delivery that allows a document or package to have proof of:
      (1)   Sending the document or package;
      (2)   The date the document or package was delivered or delivery was
attempted; and
      (3)   The signature of the receipt of the document or package.
(KRS 446.010(8))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Kuttawa irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body. (KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Lyon County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees. (KRS
446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to corporations, partnerships, business trusts, or
limited liability companies, means all those incorporated or formed by
authority of this state. (KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor. (KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to corporations, partnerships, limited partnerships,
business trusts, statutory trusts, or limited liability companies, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state. (KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council. (KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Councilmember. (KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, procine, caprine, equine or camelid
species. (KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month. (KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Kuttawa, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited partnerships (KRS 446.010
(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests. (KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies. (KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Any governmental, commercial, or electronic method of
delivery that allows a document or package to have:
      (1)   Its chain of custody recorded in a register to enable its location
to be tracked;
      (2)   Insurance available to cover its loss; and
      (3)   The signature of the recipient of the document or package available
to the sender.
(KRS 446.010(36))
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.010(39))
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year. (KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things. (KRS
446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males. (KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council. (KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared. (KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning. (KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons. (KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.
      Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord.
20, passed 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word- for-word the same as the statute.
      Example: (KRS 83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
85).
   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of
the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.
      Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see KRS
61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
37.   TOURISM COMMISSION
      
38.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAXES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan.”
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of six members. An ordinance
amending the number of Council members shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the County Clerk by no later than the first
Wednesday after the first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in
which the Council offices will appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of Council members
becomes effective on January 1 of the year following the election of the number
of City Council members specified in the amending ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Councilmembers
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk
Incentive Program for City Officials Training
   
31.50   Definitions
   
31.51   Adoption of city officials training program; application
   
31.52   Incentive payment amount; required training participation
   
31.53   Policy regarding payment or reimbursement for training courses
   
31.54   Administration of City Officials Training Program
   
31.55   Status of incentive payments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of           , according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or
affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen
of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this
State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel
with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor
aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God”, as established by
section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification. Certification of the person administering the oath of
office to an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath was
administered and the date of its administration. Said certification shall be
filed in accordance with KRS 62.020.
   (C)   Bond.
      (1)   All officers, officials, and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments, a regional wastewater
commission and special districts who handle public funds in the execution of
their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the local governing body
for the faithful and honest performance of his or her duties and as security
for all money coming into that person’s hands or under that person’s control.
The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum amount of public funds the
officer, official, or employee handles at any given time during a fiscal year
cycle. The local governing body shall pay the cost of the bond.
      (2)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and
employees of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be
deemed to have complied with division (C)(1) of this section.
(KRS 65.067)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed after his
election or during his term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Councilmembers
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with section 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than $12,000 per annum and Mayors in cities other than the first class
and Councilmembers shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the City
Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his removal. No elected officer shall be removed without having
been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the
right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on
the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers and Council membership for the city shall be
at the time of the general election as provided under the non-partisan city
election laws as provided in KRS 83A.045(2)(b).
(Ord. 12-4-95-1, passed 12-12-95)
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Councilmembers may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
Statutory reference:
   Nonpartisan election of city officers, see KRS 83A.045(2)
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office begins on the first day of January following his or
her election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor
qualifies. If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a
vacancy and serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service
shall not be considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his term
of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself. (KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his successor. (KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official’s electronic mail address
and includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the city legislative
body occurring after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed
to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after its receipt. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy. (KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to 83A.150. (KRS
83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He shall supervise all
departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his jurisdiction and require each department to make reports to
him as required by ordinance or as he deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually. He shall make any recommendations for
actions by the Council he finds in the public interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records. (KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order. Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by executive
order. (KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council. (KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties
of his office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed, in
accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not delegate the
responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the authority to
approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may only be
delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the Mayor may
rescind any action taken in his absence under this section within 30 days of
such action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his
duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared
vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the provisions of §
31.21(C) shall apply. (KRS 83A.130(10))
§ 31.22 COUNCILMEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following is a nonelected city office: City Clerk.
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1), (2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The office of City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any other
nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of such office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” in accordance with KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail to the Department for
Local Government, a list containing current city information including but not
limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the
following appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
            1. City Clerk;
            2. City Treasurer;
            3. City Manager;
            4. City Attorney;
            5. Finance Director;
            6. Police Chief;
            7. Fire Chief; and
            8. Public Works Director;
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall, and
telephone number of the city hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.;
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
      (6)   The Department for Local Government shall immediately forward one
copy of the information received from each City Clerk to the Legislative
Research Commission.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless such
person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
INCENTIVE PROGRAM FOR CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING
§ 31.50 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, the terms below shall have the following
meanings:
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training Center.
   EXCESS HOURS. Credit hours earned beyond 15 during a single calendar year.
   QUALIFYING COURSE. Any training, seminar, educational or learning event that
provides instruction or information that is relevant to the duties and
functions of city government and city officials.
   TRAINING UNIT. Fifteen (15) clock hours of attendance or participation in
qualifying courses during a calendar year.
(Ord. 01-14-19-01, passed 3-11-19)
§ 31.51 ADOPTION OF A CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING PROGRAM; APPLICATION.
   In accordance with House Bill 119 of the 2011 General Assembly, as codified
in KRS Chapter 64, the City of Kuttawa hereby adopts and establishes a City
Officials Training Program to make available incentive payments as specified by
this subchapter to the elected city officials, including the mayor and all
members of the city council as well as the city clerk and deputy clerk for
obtaining education and training as required under the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 01-14-19-01, passed 3-11-19)
§ 31.52 INCENTIVE PAYMENT AMOUNT; REQUIRED TRAINING PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Each city official eligible for participation in the City Officials
Training Program shall receive payment of $500 for each calendar year that he
or she completes a training unit. Provided that, the city official shall not be
awarded more than one training unit per calendar year and shall not receive
payment in any single calendar year for the accumulation of more than four
training units.
   (B)   The final training incentive payment to be received by a city official
for a specific calendar year shall be determined by multiplying the base
training incentive amount by the training incentive multiplier. The training
incentive multiplier is determined by the number of training units
consecutively earned by the city official and shall not exceed four. The total
training incentive payment shall be made to the city official presenting proof
of completion of a training unit for a calendar year within 30 days of the
conclusion of the calendar year.
   (C)   The city official may continue to receive the maximum training
incentive payment of the base training incentive amount multiplied by the
training incentive multiplier of four for each year following the fourth year,
provided that the officer continues to earn a training unit each subsequent
calendar year.
   (D)   The failure of a city official to obtain a training unit during any
calendar year shall disqualify the officer from receiving any training
incentive payment for the calendar year and the city official shall lose any
previously accumulated training units earned during previous calendar years,
which shall result in the training incentive multiplier being reset to one in
the following calendar year.
   (E)   Any city official earning excess hours during a calendar year shall be
permitted to carry forward a maximum of ten hours to apply to the earning of
the training unit in the following calendar year.
(Ord. 01-14-19-01, passed 3-11-19)
§ 31.53 POLICY REGARDING PAYMENT OR REIMBURSEMENT FOR TRAINING COURSES.
   Subject to the constraints and the appropriations established by the city’s
annual budget, the city shall consider paying the cost of attendance or
participation in advance of a city official’s attendance or participation in
the qualifying course if proper application is made to the mayor.
Alternatively, and subject the constraints and appropriations established by
the city’s annual budget, the city shall consider reimbursing a city official
for the cost of attendance or participation in a qualifying course upon
presentation of proof to the mayor that the official has received credit for
the course.
(Ord. 01-14-19-01, passed 3-11-19)
§ 31.54 ADMINISTRATION OF CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING PROGRAM.
   (A)   The City Officials Training Program for the City of Kuttawa shall be
administered by the Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training Center,
which shall be responsible for approving courses as qualifying under the terms
of this subchapter, shall maintain records of attendance and participation, and
shall notify the city when a city official earns a training unit and the
applicable training incentive multiplier applicable to each city official.
   (B)   The administrator shall evaluate and approve courses as qualifying for
credit based on the relation of the course to the operation of city government.
In addition to other courses which may be approved as qualifying courses by the
administrator, courses that provide instruction on the statutory duties of
cities and city officials, intergovernmental relationships, municipal finance
and budgeting, municipal taxation, ethics, open records, open meetings,
economic development, or municipal police powers shall be approved as
qualifying courses under this subchapter. The administrator shall require the
submission of the course or conference agenda, curriculum, name of the
provider, and other course materials to determine whether a course should be
approved as a qualifying course.
   (C)   A city official shall submit proof of attendance or participation in a
qualifying course to the administrator. A city official shall submit the course
name, date, location, name of the instructor or provider, and sufficient proof
of attendance or participation in the qualifying course before the
administrator shall award credit. The administrator shall not award credit to a
city official for attendance or participation in a qualifying course that is
not, in the administrator’s opinion, substantially different from another
course the city official attended or participated in during the same calendar
year.
   (D)   The administrator shall maintain records that reflect each of the
courses and hours completed by the city official and shall provide it to each
city official upon request. The administrator shall, within 30 days of the
close of the calendar year, provide written or electronic certification to each
participating city official of completed courses and hours, and shall, if
applicable, certify the completion of a training unit and the applicable
training incentive multiplier. Upon receipt, a city official shall present a
copy of the certification of the completion of the training unit and the
applicable training incentive multiplier to the city in order to receive his or
her training incentive payment.
(Ord. 01-14-19-01, passed 3-11-19)
§ 31.55 STATUS OF INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Training incentive payments do not constitute wages under KRS Chapter
337, creditable compensation under the County Employees Retirement System under
KRS Chapter 78, or compensation for the purposes of setting maximum
compensation or modification of compensation under KRS Chapter 83A, and may be
repealed or modified by the city at any time.
   (B)   The base training incentive payment amount established in the
subchapter shall not be adjusted by any index reporting changes to consumer
prices or any other method to account for inflation.
(Ord. 01-14-19-01, passed 3-11-19)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Councilmember shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for City Council
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following the
election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his term
of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s
electronic mail address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular meeting of the city
legislative body. If a resignation date is not specified, the written
resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special
meeting of the City Council occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute. (KRS
83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety, and welfare. (KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources. (KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his designee on behalf of any department, office,
or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council has
the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number
may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in the absence of the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5))
Cross-reference:
   Council’s responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held at least once each month
at those times and places established by ordinance.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Kuttawa.”
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4), (7))
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council together
with a statement of his objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after receiving it
or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon reconsideration
of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its
return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmembers shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Fiscal year
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Model Investment Policy
   
33.30   General investment policy
   
33.31   Scope
   
33.32   Investment objectives
   
33.33   Investment authority
   
33.34   Standards of care
   
33.35   Authorized financial institutions, depositories, and brokers/dealers
   
33.36   Safekeeping and custody
   
33.37   Suitable and authorized investments
   
33.38   Investment parameters
   
33.39   Performance standards and evaluation
   
33.40   Reporting and disclosure
   
33.41   Policy considerations
   
33.42   Approval of investment policy
Grant Applications
   
33.50   Grant application and approval
   
33.51   Determination
   
33.52   Prohibited grants
 
   
33.99   Penalty
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91A.010(6))
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The following standards shall apply to the form and detail in which
the annual budget proposal of the city is to be prepared.
      (1)   The annual budget proposal shall detail the raising of revenue from
all sources, including grants and transfers, and the spending of money for
specified programs, functions, activities, or objectives of the city, including
all principle and interest due on debt, for the budget year. The total of
anticipated revenues shall equal or exceed the total of proposed expenditures.
      (2)   The form of the annual budget proposal shall be consistent in form,
to the extent practical, with the accounting system of the city.
      (3)   The annual budget proposal shall provide a complete program and
financial plan for all funds for the budget year.
      (4)   The annual budget proposal, together with a budget message, shall
be submitted to the legislative body not later than 30 days prior to the
beginning of the fiscal year.
      (5)   The annual budget proposal shall not provide for appropriations to
exceed revenues for the budget year.
(Ord. passed 8-1-83)
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs, and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
Section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M) No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the auditor of public accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic
copy of the audit report to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes by no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited.
   (B)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor. The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement
which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended.
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to Council at a regular or special meeting.
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon request.
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (D)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (E)   Any resident fo the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once, in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city. The costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable fee
for the attorney of the resident bringing the action, shall be assessed against
the unsuccessful party.
   (F)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines, the city may submit a written request for an
extension of time to the Department for Local Government on a form prescribed
by the Department for Local Government. The Department for Local Government
shall approve the request if it is submitted on or before the applicable
deadline, and in the judgement of the Department for Local Government the
request is warranted by extenuating circumstances beyond the control of the
city. Extensions granted under this division shall not exceed nine months from
the original due date of the audit or financial statement. If the Department
for Local Government approves an extension for a city and the city fails to
complete and submit the required audit or financial statement in compliance
with that extended deadline, then the provisions of division (G) below shall
apply.
   (G)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required, including division (F)
above, the Department for Local Government shall notify the Finance and
Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the audit
requirements of this section and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall immediately
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements, including division (F) above, for all prior fiscal years it has
failed to comply with the audit requirements of this section and the Finance
and Administration Cabinet shall direct reinstatement of payments to the city,
including any funds that were withheld due to the noncompliance.
   (H)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040) Penalty, see §
33.99
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. sec. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any
obligations, including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
§ 33.06 FISCAL YEAR.
   The start of the city’s fiscal year shall be on July 1 of each year.
(Ord. 10-4-82-4, passed 11-1-82)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefited by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes. (KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Ch. 107
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
MODEL INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 33.30 GENERAL INVESTMENT POLICY.
   It is the policy of the City of Kuttawa to invest public funds in a manner
which will provide the maximum security and highest investment of principal
while meeting the daily cash flow demands on the City of Kuttawa and conforming
to both KRS 91A.060 and KRS 66.480. This investment policy applies to all
financial assets held directly by the City of Kuttawa. These financial assets
are accounted for in the City of Kuttawa annual financial report and include
all moneys in investment fund accounts.
(Ord. 03-09-20-06, passed - - )
§ 33.31 SCOPE.
   (A)   This investment policy applies to all financial assets held directly
by the city. These financial assets are accounted for in the city’s annual
financial report and include all moneys in the following funds:
      (1)   General Fund;
      (2)   Special Revenue Fund;
      (3)   Capital Projects Fund;
      (4)   Enterprise Fund;
      (5)   Utility Depreciation Fund;
      (6)   Agency Fund;
      (7)   Any new fund created by the governing body.
   (B)   Financial assets of the city held and invested by trustees or fiscal
agents are excluded from these policies; however, such assets shall be invested
in accordance with state laws applicable to the investment of local government
funds and in accordance with the City of Kuttawa’s primary investment
objectives.
(Ord. 03-09-20-06, passed - - )
§ 33.32 INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES.
   The City of Kuttawa’s primary investment objectives, in order of priority,
are the following:
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the City of
Kuttawa’s investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that
seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. The goal
is to mitigate credit risk and interest rate risk.
   (B)   Liquidity. The City of Kuttawa’s investment portfolio shall remain
sufficiently liquid to enable the City of Kuttawa to meet all operating
requirements which might be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Return on investment. The City of Kuttawa’s investment portfolio shall
be designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout
the budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the City of Kuttawa’s
investment risk constraints and the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio.
(Ord. 03-09-20-06, passed - - )
§ 33.33 INVESTMENT AUTHORITY.
   Management’s responsibility for the City of Kuttawa’s investment program is
the joint responsibility of the designated officials, which shall be the Mayor
and the City Clerk. Both shall share the authority, subject to the approval of
the governing body, to establish additional specific written procedures for the
operation of the investment program that are consistent with this investment
policy. The procedures shall include explicit delegation of authority, if any,
to persons responsible for investment transactions. No person may engage in an
investment transaction except as provided under the terms of this policy and
the procedures established by the designated officials. These designated
officials shall be ultimately responsible for all transactions undertaken and
shall establish a system of controls to regulate the activities of subordinate
officials and employees. The controls shall be designed to prevent and control
losses of public funds arising from fraud, employee error, misrepresentation by
third parties, unanticipated changes in financial markets or imprudent actions
by officers and employees. The designated officials shall maintain all records
related to the entity’s investment program.
(Ord. 03-09-20-06, passed - - )
§ 33.34 STANDARDS OF CARE.
   (A)   Prudence. The actions of the designated officials in the performance
of their duties as managers of the City of Kuttawa’s funds shall be evaluated
using the “prudent person” standard. Investments shall be made with judgment
and care under prevailing circumstances which persons of prudence, discretion,
and intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment considering the probable safety of their
capital, as well as the probable income to be derived. The designated
officials, acting in accordance with written procedures, this investment
policy, and exercising due diligence, shall be relieved of personal
responsibility for an individual security’s performance, provided that
deviations from expectations are reported in a timely fashion to the governing
body and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
   (B)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal activity that could conflict
with the proper execution and management of the investment program, or that
could impair their ability to make impartial investment decisions. Employees
and investment officials shall disclose any material interests in financial
institutions with which they conduct business. Disclosure shall be made to the
governing body. They shall further disclose any personal financial/investment
positions that could be related to the performance of the investment portfolio.
Employees and officers shall refrain from undertaking any personal investment
transactions with the same individual with whom business is conducted on behalf
of the city.
   (C)   Delegation of authority.
      (1)   Governing body. The governing body will retain ultimate fiduciary
responsibility for the portfolios. The governing body will receive monthly
reports, designate designated officials and review the investment policy making
any changes necessary by adoption.
      (2)   Designated officials. Authority to manage the investment program is
granted to the Mayor and the City Clerk, hereinafter referred to as designated
officials as designated by this subchapter. Responsibility for the operation of
the investment program is hereby delegated to the designated officials who
shall act in accordance with established written procedures and internal
controls for the operation of the investment program consistent with this
investment policy. Officers will prepare monthly investment reports and other
special reports as may be deemed necessary. All participants in the investment
process shall seek to act responsibly as custodians of the public trust. No
officer or designee may engage in an investment transaction except as provided
under the terms of this policy and supporting procedures.
      (3)   Investment advisers/brokers. The city may engage the services of
one or more external investment managers, advisers, and/or brokers to assist in
the management of the entity’s investment portfolio in a manner consistent with
the city’s objectives. Such external managers, advisers, and/or brokers may be
granted discretion to purchase and sell investment securities in accordance
with this investment policy.
(Ord. 03-09-20-06, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.35 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, DEPOSITORIES, AND BROKERS/DEALERS.
   (A)   A list will be maintained of financial institutions and depositories
authorized to provide investment services. In addition, a list will be
maintained of approved security broker/dealers selected by conducting a process
of due diligence. These may include “primary” dealers or regional dealers that
qualify under Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 15C3-1 (uniform net
capital rule).
   (B)   The designated officials shall determine which financial institutions
are authorized to provide investment services to city. Institutions eligible to
transact investment business with city include:
      (1)   Primary government dealers as designated by the Federal Reserve
Bank;
      (2)   Nationally or state-chartered banks;
      (3)   The Federal Reserve Bank;
      (4)   Direct issuers of securities eligible for purchase; and
      (5)   Kentucky League of Cities Investment Pool Plus.
   (C)   Selection of financial institutions and broker/dealers authorized to
engage in transactions with the City of Kuttawa shall be at the sole discretion
of the city.
   (D)   All brokers/dealers who desire to become qualified for investment
transactions must supply the following (as appropriate):
      (1)   Audited financial statements demonstrating compliance with state
and federal capital adequacy guidelines;
      (2)   Proof of state registration;
      (3)   Completed broker/dealer questionnaire (not applicable to
Certificate of Deposit counterparties);
      (4)   Certification of having read and understood and agreeing to comply
with the entity’s investment policy; and
      (5)   Evidence of adequate insurance coverage.
   (E)   All financial institutions who desire to become depositories must
supply the following (as appropriate):
      (1)   Audited financial statements demonstrating compliance with state
and federal capital adequacy guidelines;
      (2)   Proof of state registration; and
      (3)   Evidence of adequate insurance coverage.
   (F)   A periodic review of the financial condition and registration of all
qualified financial institutions and broker/dealers will be conducted by the
designated officials.
      (1)   Minority, emerging and community financial institutions. From time
to time, the designated officials may choose to invest in instruments offered
by minority, emerging, and community financial institutions. All terms and
relationships will be fully disclosed prior to purchase and will be reported to
the appropriate entity on a consistent basis and should be consistent with
Kentucky law and city ordinance.
      (2)   Competitive transactions.
         (a)   The designated officials shall obtain competitive bid
information on all purchases of investment instruments purchased on the
secondary market. A competitive bid can be executed through a bidding process
involving at least three separate brokers/financial institutions or through the
use of a nationally recognized trading platform.
         (b)   If the city is offered a security for which there is no readily
available competitive offering on the same specific issue, then the designated
officials shall document quotations for comparable or alternative securities.
When purchasing original issue instrumentality securities, no competitive
offerings will be required as all dealers in the selling group offer those
securities at the same original issue price.
         (c)   If the city hires an investment adviser to provide investment
management services, the adviser must provide documentation of competitive
pricing execution on each transaction. The investment adviser will retain
documentation and provide the same upon request.
(Ord. 03-09-20-06, passed - - )
§ 33.36 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   (A)   Safekeeping. Securities may be held by an independent safekeeping
institution or entity selected by the City of Kuttawa. The safekeeping
institution or entity may annually provide a copy of its most recent report on
internal controls (Service Organization Control Reports (formerly 70, or SAS
70)), prepared in accordance with the Statement on Standards for Attestation
Engagements (SSAE) No. 16 (effective June 15, 2011). These reports will be
provided upon request.
   (B)   Internal controls. Management shall establish a system of internal
controls, which shall be documented in writing. The internal controls shall be
reviewed by the investment committee, where present, and with the independent
auditor. The controls shall be designed to prevent the loss of public funds
arising from fraud, employee error, and misrepresentation by third parties,
unanticipated changes in financial markets, or imprudent actions by employees
and officers of the city.
(Ord. 03-09-20-06, passed - - )
§ 33.37 SUITABLE AND AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Investment types and credit guidelines. Consistent with the GFOA
Policy Statement and Kentucky laws and city ordinances concerning investment
practices, the investments as defined by KRS 66.480 are allowed. KRS 66.480 (2)
restricts overall investment in KRS 66.480(1)(e), (f), (g), (k), and (l) of the
following types of securities to 20% of total local government investments:
      (1)   United States government obligations and instrumentalities
including obligations subject to repurchase, if delivery of these obligations
is taken directly or through an authorized custodian.
(KRS 66.480(1)(a))
      (2)   United States Treasury and other United States government
obligations that carry the full faith and credit guarantee of the United States
for the payment of principal and interest.
(KRS 66.480(1)(b))
      (3)   Federal Agency or United States government-sponsored enterprise
(GSE) obligations, participations or other instruments.
(KRS 66.480(1)(c))
      (4)   CDs issued by or other interest-bearing accounts of any bank or
savings and loan institution having a physical presence in Kentucky and that
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or
that are collateralized by any obligations, including surety bonds, permitted
by KRS 41.240.
(KRS 66.480(1)(d))
      (5)   Uncollateralized CDs issued by any bank or savings and loan
institution having a physical presence in Kentucky rated in one of the three
highest categories by a competent rating agency.
(KRS 66.480(1)(e))
      (6)   Bankers’ acceptances, which must be rated in one of the three
highest categories by a competent rating agency.
(KRS 66.480(1)(f))
      (7)   Commercial paper, rated in the highest tier (e.g., A-1, P-1, F-1,
or D-1 or higher) by a competent rating organization.
(KRS 66.480(1)(g))
      (8)   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of this state and of its
agencies and instrumentalities.
(KRS 66.480(1)(h))
      (9)   Investment-grade obligations of state or local governments or any
instrumentality thereof rated one of the three highest categories by a
competent rating agency.
(KRS 66.480(1)(i))
      (10)   Shares of mutual funds and exchange traded funds as identified by
KRS 66.480(1)(j).
      (11)   Individual equity securities if the funds are managed by a
professional investment manager regulated by a federal regulatory agency and
are included within the S&P 500 pursuant to KRS 66.480(1)(k).
      (12)   Individual high-quality corporate bonds managed by a professional
investment manager pursuant to KRS 66.480(1)(l).
   (B)   If the credit rating of a security is subsequently downgraded below
the minimum rating level for a new investment of that security, the designated
officials shall evaluate the downgrade on a case-by-case basis in order to
determine if the security should be held or sold. The designated officials will
apply the general objectives of safety, liquidity, yield and legality to make
the decision.
(Ord. 03-09-20-06, passed - - )
§ 33.38 INVESTMENT PARAMETERS.
   Credit risk is the risk that a security or a portfolio will lose some or all
of its value due to a real or perceived change in the ability of the issuer to
repay its debt. The city shall mitigate credit risk by adopting the following:
It is the policy of the City of Kuttawa to diversify its investment portfolios
within the restrictions of state and federal law. KRS 66.480(2)(a) limits local
government investment in securities to 20% of total investment with no more
than 5% of total investment in a single issuer absent exceptions in KRS 66.480
(2)(d)(l) through (4). Furthermore, local governments are restricted from
investing 40% of allowed securities investment total in mutual funds and
exchange traded funds, individual equity securities, and individual high-
quality corporate bonds by KRS 66.480(2)(b).
(Ord. 03-09-20-06, passed - - )
§ 33.39 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND EVALUATION.
   The city’s investment management portfolio shall be designed with the levels
of risk appropriate to conform to performance benchmarks while meeting cash
flow demands and complying with state law.
(Ord. 03-09-20-06, passed - - )
§ 33.40 REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE.
   The designated officials shall submit, at least quarterly, an investment
report that summarizes recent market conditions, economic developments and
anticipated investment conditions. The report shall summarize the investment
strategies employed in the most recent quarter, and describe the portfolio in
terms of investment securities, maturities, risk characteristics and other
features. The report shall explain the quarter’s total investment return and
compare the return with budgetary expectations. The report shall include an
appendix that discloses all transactions during the past quarter. The report
shall be in compliance with Kentucky law and shall be distributed to the
investment committee and others as required by law. Each quarterly report shall
indicate any areas of policy concern and suggested or planned revision of
investment strategies. Copies shall be transmitted to the independent auditor.
Within 40 days of the end of the fiscal year, the designated officials shall
present a comprehensive annual report on the investment program and investment
activity. The annual report shall include both 12-month and quarterly
comparisons of return and shall suggest policies and improvements that might be
made in the investment program. Alternatively, this report may be included
within the annual Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.
(Ord. 03-09-20-06, passed - - )
§ 33.41 POLICY CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Exemption. Any investment currently held that does not meet the
guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from the requirements of this
policy. At maturity or liquidation, such monies shall be reinvested only as
provided by this policy.
   (B)   Amendments. This policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis. Any
changes must be approved by the designated officials and any other appropriate
authority, as well as the individuals charged with maintaining internal
controls.
(Ord. 03-09-20-06, passed - - )
§ 33.42 APPROVAL OF INVESTMENT POLICY.
   The investment policy and any modifications to that policy shall be formally
approved and adopted by the governing body of the City of Kuttawa.
(Ord. 03-09-20-06, passed - - )
GRANT APPLICATIONS
§ 33.50 GRANT APPLICATION AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   No funding request from any organization or entity may be considered
unless and until a full, accurate, and complete grant funding application is
filed with the City of Kuttawa.
   (B)   No funding request will be considered from any for-profit organization
or entity unless otherwise permissible under state law. Likewise, no funding
request will be considered if the City of Kuttawa is prohibited by state law
from sending money for the requested good or service.
   (C)   Once a full and complete application from a non-profit group or
organization for a legal expenditure of city funds is received by the City of
Kuttawa, the members of the Kuttawa City Council will be given a full copy of
the application prior to the next regularly scheduled Kuttawa City Council
meeting.
(Ord. 09-14-20-10, passed 9-17-20)
§ 33.51 DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The Kuttawa City Council may only approve a grant application which
first meets the following test of public purpose:
      (1)   The expenditure must confer a direct benefit of reasonably general
character to a significant part of the city public, as distinguished from a
remote or theoretical benefit;
      (2)   The receiving organization must provide services that are for the
general good and welfare of city citizens; and
      (3)   The grant must have as its objective the promotion of the public
health, safety, morals, general welfare, security, prosperity, and contentment
of all, or at least a substantial part of city inhabitants or residents.
   (B)   The Kuttawa City Council must further make a determination that there
are adequate safeguards in place to make sure that the receiving organization
uses the grant request for the particular public purpose found by the City of
Kuttawa. Where possible, the City of Kuttawa should be provided invoices for
application of the grant funds directly to the vendor of the material,
equipment, goods, or services which are being provided to the public.
   (C)   The Kuttawa City Council may only approve a grant application through
the adoption of a municipal order at a regular monthly meeting of the Kuttawa
City Council.
(Ord. 09-14-20-10, passed 9-17-20)
§ 33.52 PROHIBITED GRANTS.
   The City of Kuttawa does hereby find that the following type of grant
requests are not sufficiently related to a public purpose and are therefore
prohibited:
   (A)   Any grant request which could be construed as a payment of a personal
bill for a city resident, as opposed to the support of a community-wide program
or initiative;
   (B)   Any grant request which could be construed as support of a particular
business or industry; and
   (C)   Any grant request which funds any facility that is not open to the
general public.
(Ord. 09-14-20-10, passed 9-17-20)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
33.04 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any
officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of §
33.04 shall, for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50
nor more than $500, in the discretion of the court, which may be recovered only
once in a civil action brought by any resident of the city.
(Ord. 09-14-20-10, passed 9-17-20)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Format of copies
   
34.13   Fees for copies
   
34.14   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.15   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.16   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.17   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its new
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his actual
personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the
Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The city, including its legislative body and every officer,
department and division of the city; every entity created by authority of the
city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency created and controlled by the city; and
any interagency body in which the city participates.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the city. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records owned or
maintained by or for the city that are not related to functions, activities,
programs, or operations funded by the city nor any records that may be excluded
by §
34.16.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
city’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system, application
programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators and utility
programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited from
disclosure or copying by a license agreement between the city and an outside
entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant
and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the application. A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the city, the official
custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or mail copies
thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by clear and
convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1))
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of §
34.16 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.16. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the city maintains electronic public
records in a format other than ASCII, and this format conforms to the
requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in this alternate
electronic format for standard fees as specified by the city. Any request for a
public record in a form other than the forms described in this section shall be
considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) - (2))
§ 34.13 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The city may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of nonexempt
public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which shall not
exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the media and
any mechanical processing cost incurred by the city, but not including the cost
of staff required. If the city is asked to produce a record in a
nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request of an
individual or a group, the city may at its discretion provide the requested
format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the city may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The city may require a certified statement from the requestor
stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may require
the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract shall
permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the city of media, mechanical processing, and staff
required to produce a copy of the public record or records;
         (b)   Cost to the city of the creation, purchase, or other acquisition
of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3),(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.15
§ 34.14 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the city pursuant to §
34.13;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.15 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the city. If a party wishes to access
public records by electronic means and the city agrees to provide online
access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a contract,
license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for these
agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.13.
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.16 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Ch. 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for the city relative to the
acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action; however, records or information compiled
and maintained by county attorneys or Commonwealth’s attorneys pertaining to
criminal investigations or criminal litigation shall be exempted from the
provisions of this chapter and shall remain exempted after enforcement action,
including litigation, is completed or a decision is made to take no action. The
exemptions provided by this subdivision shall not be used by the custodian of
the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action by the city.
      (10) Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11) All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law.
      (12) Public records or information the disclosure of which is prohibited
or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the General
Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of Revenue in
tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure under KRS
131.190.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapters 45A or 56.
This exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31.
      (17)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in state law.
      (18)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.08.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him. Such records shall
include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878)
§ 34.17 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   County assessment adopted
   
35.02   Due date; payment
   
35.03   Delinquency
   
35.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
35.05   Disposition of funds
   
35.06   Bank franchise and local deposit tax
   
35.07   Tax on retail sales of food by restaurants
   
35.08   Mobile food vehicles
Cross-reference:
   Business regulations, license taxes, see §§
112.03,
113.01,
113.02,
113.15
   Restaurant tax, see §§
37.03,
37.05 -
37.07
§ 35.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the Lyon County assessment for all real and personal property situated
within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or approved
by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
§ 35.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due
on December 1.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who pays his city taxes before December 1 after they
become due shall be entitled to a 2% discount thereon, and the Clerk shall
allow the discount and give a receipt in full to the taxpayer.
§ 35.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on January 1 following their due dates.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall be
subject to a penalty of 2% per annum until January 31; thereafter, there shall
be a penalty of 10% on the taxes due and unpaid. The delinquent taxpayer shall
also pay all costs and expenses incidental to any action taken by the city for
collection of the delinquent tax bill.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by cities of the fifth
class.
(Am. Ord. 97-10-6-8, passed 10/13/97)
§ 35.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the Lyon
County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 35.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
§ 35.06 BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX.
   (A)   There shall be on all financial institutions, as defined in KRS 136,
located within the city corporate limits a franchise tax at the rate of 0.025%
on all deposits, as defined in KRS 136, maintained by such financial
institutions.
   (B)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later than
December 1 of each year. Payment of tax shall be due with a 2% discount by
December 31 of each year, or without the discount by January 31 of each year.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject
to the tax imposed by these sections, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
   (D)   All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are not paid
before January 31 shall be deemed delinquent and shall be subject to a penalty
of 10% and shall bear interest at the rate of 8% per annum.
   (E)   All moneys collected pursuant to this section shall be paid into the
General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 97-5-5-1, passed 5-5-97)
§ 35.07 TAX ON RETAIL SALES OF FOOD BY RESTAURANTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide assistance in
funding the Lyon County Tourist and Convention Commission in a manner
consistent with Chapter 91A of the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   RESTAURANT. Any business at which food is prepared and sold. The word
“restaurant” will not include vending machine sales.
   (C)   Tax imposed. A tax is levied on the sale of all food and beverages at
restaurants other than alcoholic beverages. The amount of the tax shall be 2%
of the gross sales of food by each restaurant.
   (D)   Collection. The tax herein imposed shall be collected by the operator
of each restaurant within the city, who shall file a tax collection return by
the 20th day of each month for the preceding month’s sales, upon forms approved
by the City Clerk.
   (E)   Disposition of funds. All funds collected under the tax for which
provision is made herein shall be immediately remitted to the Lyon County
Tourist and Convention Commission.
   (F)   Penalty. Failure to pay the monthly remittance within ten days after
the due date shall constitute a violation of this section, resulting in an
automatic penalty of 10%, together with interest on all delinquent payments of
10% per annum.
(Ord. 01-4-2-6, passed 4-10-01)
§ 35.08 MOBILE FOOD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. In order to promote a new dynamic for the citizens
of Kuttawa, create new jobs, increase quality of life and diversify dining
options, this section has been adopted to allow mobile food vehicles to operate
under specific guidelines.
   (B)   Definitions. The definitions contained in this division shall govern
the construction , meaning and application of words and phrases used in this
section.
      MOBILE FOOD ADMINISTRATOR. The City Clerk or his or her designee. The
Administrator shall be responsible for the administration, oversight and
enforcement of the provisions under this section.
      MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE. A vehicle-mounted, vehicle-towed or vehicle-carried
food service establishment that engages in the sale and preparation of food or
beverages in individual portions to the general public.
      MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. A person or persons that prepare or serve food or
beverages to the general public from a mobile food vehicle.
   (C)   Exemptions. This section shall not apply to ice cream trucks that move
from place to place and are stationary in the same location for no more than
ten minutes at a time. This section also does not apply to food vending push
carts or stands.
   (D)   Taxes. All mobile food vehicles, not otherwise omitted herein, shall
be subject to the city’s restaurant tax. The tax shall be 2% of all food and
beverage sales by all mobile food vehicles doing business in the city
(including mobile food vehicles doing business at special events in the city).
The tax shall be collected by the operator of each mobile food vehicle. The
operator of each mobile food vehicle shall be responsible for filing a tax
collection return, along with any other required forms, and shall be required
to remit payment at the end of each and every day the mobile food vehicle
operates in the city. The payment shall be submitted to the Mobile Food
Administrator or placed in the drop box located at the city. Failure to pay the
remittance as provided above, shall constitute a violation of this section,
resulting in an automatic penalty of 10%, together with interest on all
delinquent payments of 6% per annum. Additionally, failure to pay the
remittance as provided above may result in the revocation of the mobile food
permit.
   (E)   Location and hours.
      (1)   Mobile food vehicles a re permitted in city right-of-way (“ROW”).
Mobile food vehicles are expressly prohibited from locating on State of
Kentucky ROW. Mobile food vehicles may not locate within 100 feet of the
principal entrance of any restaurant where more than 50% of sales are derived
from food.
      (2)   The mobile food vendor must obtain written permission from the
property owner to locate on private property and the permission must be made
available to the Mobile Food Administrator. Mobile food vehicles may locate in
pubic parking lots with written approval from the Mobile Food Administrator.
Vehicles in the ROW may be asked to be moved in the event of street cleaning,
snow removal, parades, construction or other events as deemed necessary, in the
sole opinion of the Mobile Food Administrator. Mobile food vehicles in private
parking lots may be asked to be moved in the event sufficient parking is not
available. Written permission must be granted from the Mobile Food
Administrator or his or her designee if the mobile food vendor proposes to
operate in a public park.
      (3)   In no case shall a mobile food vehicle obstruct traffic or
pedestrian flow. A mobile food vendor shall ensure that a minimum of four feet
of unobstructed sidewalk remains open for pedestrian traffic. Mobile food
vehicles parked in the ROW shall not occupy more than two parking spaces. No
stop sign, yield sign, school crossing sign or any other traffic control sign
or signal shall be obstructed. No ingress/egress of any driveway or alley shall
be obstructed. No fire hydrant or fire lane shall be obstructed.
      (4)   Mobile food vehicles may generally operate within the hours of 5:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m. unless the mobile food vehicle(s) at issue is/are being
utilized as part of a special event that is pre-approved by the Mobile Food
Administrator. Mobile food vehicles may operate until 2:00 a.m. if the mobile
food vehicle is located on private business property and the principal business
located on the private business property is open. Mobile food vehicles may not
be left overnight in public parking lots or on city ROW, without the written
permission of the Mobile Food Administrator.
   (F)   Self-contained units and appurtenances.
      (1)   All mobile food vehicles shall have self-contained water and
wastewater. No gray water or grease shall be dumped upon any street, sidewalk
or down a storm water drain. Mobile food vehicles on private property may
utilize electric power from the property being occupied or an adjacent
property, but only when written consent is obtained to do so. No power cable,
extension cord or other equipment shall be extended across any street, alley or
sidewalk. If a power cable, extension cord or other electrical equipment is
extended across a parking lot, the equipment must be protected from vehicle
movements in accordance with the Nation al Electrical Code requirements.
      (2)   No tables, chairs, umbrellas or other appurtenances shall be
allowed on public property, without the written permission of the Mobile Food
Administrator.
      (3)   All mobile food vehicles shall be in compliance with regulations
established by the Cabinet for Health and Family Services, Department for
Public Health, Division of Public Health Protection and Safety and/or the
Purchase District Health Department, and U.S. Public Health and FDA Food Code.
   (G)   Garbage disposal. All mobile food vendors must provide one or more
garbage receptacles for their patrons. All mobile food vendors must keep the
area around their vehicles free from litter, refuse and garbage.
   (H)   Serving articles and alcoholic beverages.
      (1)   Patrons shall be provided with single-service articles, such as
plastic utensils, plastic or styrofoam cups and paper or styrofoam plates.
      (2)   Mobile food vehicles shall not serve any alcoholic beverages unless
permitted by the city’s Mobile Food Administrator, the city’s Alcoholic
Beverage Administrator, and Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control.
   (I)    Special events. Mobile food vehicles are prohibited from vending
2,500 feet from special event permitted areas unless the mobile food vehicle is
permitted by the Mobile Food Administrator.
   (J)   Noise.
      (1)   No mobile food vehicle may emit bells, music, horns or other
audible sounds used to attract customers. Strobe lights, flashing lights or
other repetitious lighting are prohibited.
      (2)   The noise level from the food truck motor and generator must comply
with the city’s noise ordinance. Generators shall not be permitted within 100
feet of a residence.
   (K)   Application and permitting.
      (1)   Mobile food permit required. Any operator of a mobile food vehicle
must apply for and receive on an annual basis a mobile food zoning compliance
permit (the “mobile food permit”
      (2)   Application. Every mobile food vendor desiring to operate a mobile
food vehicle shall submit an application for a mobile food permit to the Mobile
Food Administrator. All mobile food vendors shall obtain necessary inspections
and permits otherwise required by the city, the Purchase District Health
Department, and any other local, state or federal agencies or departments, in
order to vend in the city limits. In addition to the information required by
the application, the Mobile Food Administrator may request other information
reasonably required. The mobile food permit application shall not be considered
complete until the Mobile Food Administrator has all information as required by
the application or otherwise.
      (3)   Issuance of mobile food permit. Once the application is considered
complete by the Mobile Food Administrator, the Mobile Food Administrator shall
issue or deny the mobile food permit within 14 business days. If the Mobile
Food Administrator is satisfied that the application and mobile food vehicle
conform to the requirements of this chapter and other pertinent laws and
ordinances, a mobile food permit shall be issued to the applicant. Upon
issuance of the mobile food permit the mobile food vendor shall submit a $25
mobile food permit fee. If the application and mobile food vehicle does not
conform to the requirements of this chapter or other pertinent laws or
ordinances, the Mobile Food Administrator shall not issue the mobile food
permit, but shall inform the applicant of the denial. Such denial, when
requested, shall be in writing and state the reasons for denial. The mobile
food permit shall be valid for one calendar year from the date of issuance,
unless the mobile food permit is revoked pursuant to this chapter.
      (4)   Permit renewal. Every mobile food permit, unless suspended or
revoked for a violation of any provision of this chapter or other requirement
or ordinance of the city, can be renewed annually prior to expiration. An
application for renewal of a mobile food permit shall be made through the
Mobile Food Administrator. Every mobile food vender shall submit a $25 permit
renewal fee upon issuance of the renewed mobile food permit. Upon the mobile
food permit’s expiration, the holder of the mobile food permit forfeits the
right to renew and the mobile food vendor must reapply for a new mobile food
permit.
      (5)   Inspections after permitting. Permitted operations will be
inspected periodically and without notice by representatives of various city
departments to ensure compliance with this chapter.
      (6)   Operation without permit. Any mobile food vehicle operating without
a valid mobile food permit may be deemed a public safety hazard and may be
ticketed and impounded. The penalty for operating without a mobile vehicle
permit shall be $500 for each such occurrence.
      (7)   Revocation of permit. The Mobile Food Administrator may revoke a
mobile food permit if it is discovered that:
         (a)   An applicant obtained the Mobile Food Permit by knowingly
providing false information on the application;
         (b)   The continuation of the mobile food vendor’s use of the mobile
food permit is a threat to public health or safety, or if the mobile food
vendor otherwise presents a threat to public health or safety;
         (c)   The mobile food vendor or mobile food vehicle violates
regulations of this chapter or any other city ordinance; or
         (d)   The mobile food vendor or mobile food vehicle has not paid and/
or is delinquent in paying the restaurant tax.
      (8)   Appeal of revocation. If a mobile food permit is revoked, the
Mobile Food Administrator shall state the specific reasons for the revocation.
Any mobile food vendor whose mobile food permit has been revoked may appeal
such denial by submitting a written request for hearing to the Mobile Food
Administrator within ten days of revocation. An informal hearing shall be
conducted within 30 days of the Mobile Food Administrator’s receipt of said
appeal by a panel comprised of the Mobile Food Administrator and the Mayor. The
panel shall consider whether the revocation was justified and whether good
cause exists to reinstate the mobile food permit. The panel shall issue its
decision on the appeal in a written opinion within ten business days; the
written opinion will be sent via first class mail to the mobile food vendor at
the address listed on the mobile food vehicle application. The decision
resulting therefrom shall be final. Following the revocation of a mobile food
permit, a vendor must wait three months before reapplying for a new mobile food
permit and all fees, taxes, and penalties be paid at the time of reapplying.
(Ord. 8-12-19-07, passed 10-14-19)
CHAPTER 36: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Short title
   
36.02   Findings
   
36.03   Purpose and authority
   
36.04   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
36.15   Conflicts of interest in general
   
36.16   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
36.17   Receipt of gifts
   
36.18   Use of city property, equipment or personnel
   
36.19   Representation of interests before city government
   
36.20   Misuse of confidential information
   
36.21   Post-employment restriction
   
36.22   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
36.35   Officers and employees required to file
   
36.36   Due date; amended statements
   
36.37   Form of statement of financial interests
   
36.38   Control and maintenance of statements of financial interests
   
36.39   Contents of financial interests statement
   
36.40   Noncompliance with filing requirement; notice and fine
Nepotism
   
36.50   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
36.60   Board of Ethics; establishment; membership
   
36.61   Alternate members
   
36.62   Facilities and staff
   
36.63   Powers and duties
   
36.64   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
36.65   Notice of hearings
   
36.66   Hearing procedure
   
36.67   Appeals
   
36.68   Limitation of actions
   
36.69   Advisory opinions
   
36.70   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
36.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Kuttawa Code of
Ethics.”
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94)
§ 36.02 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts.
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled.
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94)
§ 36.03 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003, as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94)
§ 36.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The city Board of Ethics which is created and vested by
this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the
city’s code of ethics.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a candidate when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor.
      (2)   A legislative body member.
      (3)   The City Clerk.
      (4)   The City Manager.
      (5)   The City Administrator.
      (6)   Any person who occupies a non-elected office created under KRS
83A.080.
      (7)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 36.15 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct:
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest;
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as defined in
divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
§ 36.16 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply to
contracts entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city
office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office, or before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However,
if any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as
an employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in division
(A) of this section shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply if
the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (3)
below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply in
any case where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency;
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed;
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or
other specific reasons; and
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(KRS 61.252) (Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.17 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.18 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT OR PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.19 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.20 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.21 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer’s or
employee’s service with the city or city agency.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.22 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater than $100 in
consideration of an appearance, speech or article unless the appearance, speech
or article is both related to the officer’s or employee’s activities outside of
municipal service and is unrelated to the officer’s or employee’s service with
the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech or article,
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94) Penalty, see §
36.99
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 36.35 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES REQUIRED TO FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office;
   (C)   Members of the Planning and Zoning Commission and Board of Adjustment;
   (D)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter;
   (E)   Nonelected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or award contracts,
leases or agreements involving the expenditure of more than $500.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.36 DUE DATE; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than 4:00 p.m., April 20, 1995. All subsequent statements of financial interest
shall be filed no later than 4:00 p.m. on April 20 of each year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.37 FORM OF STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than January 1 of each year. The
failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official, to deliver a
copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or
employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94)
§ 36.38 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the official custodian of the statements
of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated
by the Board of Ethics as the custodian, as public documents, available for
public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five years after
filing, provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94)
§ 36.39 CONTENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought, or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer’s immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (for example, salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, and the like);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year;
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence, or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for personal, family or
household purposes;
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
§ 36.40 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT; NOTICE AND FINE.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
division (A) of this section within the time period established in the notice
shall be guilty of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed
by the Board in an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total
civil fine of $500. Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may
be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the
offender fails or refuses to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of
time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94) Penalty, see §
36.99
NEPOTISM
§ 36.50 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the employment, appointment, promotion, transfer, or
advancement of a family member to an office or position of employment with the
city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94) Penalty, see §
36.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 36.60 BOARD OF ETHICS; ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of five members who shall be
appointed by the executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of
the legislative body (if different from the executive authority). The initial
members of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter. No member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any
elected or appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of
employment with the city or any city agency. The members shall serve for a term
of three years, except that with respect to the members initially appointed,
one member shall be appointed for a term of one year, two members shall be
appointed for a term of two years, and two members shall be appointed for a
term of three years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a term of three
years. No more than three of the members shall be of the same political party.
Each member of the Board of Ethics shall have been a resident of the city for
at least one year prior to the date of the appointment and shall reside in the
city throughout the term in office. The members of the Board of Ethics shall be
chosen by virtue of their known and consistent reputation for integrity and
their knowledge of local government affairs. The members may be re-appointed
for any number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the executive
authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body (if different from
the executive authority) for misconduct, inability, or willful neglect of
duties. Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed from office under
this section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity for a hearing before
the executive authority and the legislative body (if different from the
executive authority).
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
executive authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body (if
different from the executive authority). If a vacancy is not filled by the
executive authority within 60 days, the remaining members of the Board of
Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder
of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the legislative body, but shall be reimbursed for
all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a Chairperson from among the
membership. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the Chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of three or more members shall constitute a quorum and
the affirmative vote of three or more members shall be necessary for any
official action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a
conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board
shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself
from voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94)
§ 36.61 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The executive authority of the city, with the approval of the legislative
body (if different than the executive authority) may appoint two alternate
members of the Board of Ethics who may be called upon to serve when any regular
member of the Board is unable to discharge his or her duties. An alternate
member shall be appointed for a term of one year. Alternate members shall meet
all qualifications and be subject to all of the requirements of this chapter
that apply to regular members.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94)
§ 36.62 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the legislative body in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies, and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94)
§ 36.63 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths.
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board.
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
executive authority of the city, the city legislative body, the governing body
of any city agency, the county attorney, or other appropriate person or body,
as necessary.
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter.
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to insure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Kentucky Open Records Act.
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of
the city.
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94)
Statutory reference:
   Kentucky Open Records Act, see KRS 61.870 through 61.884.
§ 36.64 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date of receipt.
The Board shall forward within ten working days to each officer or employee of
the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy of the
complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except that:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth’s attorney or county
attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly discloses the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances (such as lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government) issue, in writing, a confidential reprimand to the officer
or employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the executive authority and governing body of the
city or city agency; or
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.65 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94)
§ 36.66 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however,
the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this ordinance has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
(if different than the executive authority) of the city or city agency with
which the violator serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body (if different than the executive authority) that the violator be
sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include a recommendation for
discipline or dismissal, or removal from office.
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; and
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth’s Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94)
§ 36.67 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the circuit court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall
transmit to the clerk of the court all evidence considered by the Board at the
public hearing.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94)
§ 36.68 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94)
§ 36.69 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents,
except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so
that the identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94)
Statutory reference:
   Kentucky Open Records Act, see KRS 61.870 through 61.884.
§ 36.70 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the Commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other
officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to
remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter
shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and all applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 94-12-5-6, passed 12-12-94)
CHAPTER 37: TOURISM COMMISSION
Section
   
37.01   Established
   
37.02   Appointment of Commissioners; terms
   
37.03   Restaurant tax established
   
37.04   Audit
   
37.05   Collection of tax
   
37.06   Disposition of funds
   
37.07   Delinquency
§ 37.01 ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be established a tourism commission as provided in KRS 91A.350
et seq., which shall be known as the Kuttawa Tourism Commission. The Commission
shall have all of the powers conferred upon such commissions under KRS Chapter
91A.
(Ord. 16-06-13-04, passed 6-22-16)
§ 37.02 APPOINTMENT OF COMMISSIONERS; TERMS.
   The Kuttawa Tourism Commission shall consist of seven members as provided in
KRS 91A.360. The Mayor shall, within 30 days following the enactment of this
chapter, appoint seven members to the Commission, to be selected in conformance
with KRS 91A.360. In the event an association identified in the statute does
not currently exist, the Mayor shall appoint a resident of the city.
   (A)   In making the aforesaid appointments, the Mayor shall designate two
commissioners to serve for a term of three years; two commissioners to serve
for a term of two years; and three commissioners to serve for a term of one
year. Thereafter, all commissioners shall be appointed to serve for a term of
three years.
   (B)   The Commission shall elect from its membership a chairman and a
treasurer, and employ personnel and make contracts necessary to carry out the
purpose set forth in KRS 91A.350 to 91A.390. In doing so, the Commission shall
be guided by the requirements set forth in KRS 91A.360(4).
(Ord. 16-06-13-04, passed 6-22-16)
§ 37.03 RESTAURANT TAX ESTABLISHED.
   The city shall include the Tourism Commission in its annual budget and shall
provide funds for the operation of the Commission by imposing, pursuant to KRS
91A.400, a restaurant tax of 3% of the food and beverage retail sales by all
restaurants and clubs, private or public, doing business in the city. The
effective date of this restaurant tax shall be April 1, 2020.
(Ord. 16-06-13-04, passed 6-22-16; Am. Ord. 02-10-20-04, passed 3-9-20)
§ 37.04 AUDIT.
   Pursuant to KRS 91A.360(5), the books of the Commission shall be audited
annually by an independent auditor who shall make a report to the relevant
parties in the statute. A copy of the audit report shall be made available by
the Commission to members of the public upon request and at no charge.
(Ord. 16-06-13-04, passed 6-22-16)
§ 37.05 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   The tax imposed herein shall be collected by the operator of each restaurant
within the city, who shall file a tax collection return by the 20th day of each
month for the preceding month’s sales, on forms approved by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 16-06-13-04, passed 6-22-16)
§ 37.06 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All funds collected under the tax for which provision is made herein shall
be immediately remitted to the Kuttawa Tourism Commission.
(Ord. 16-06-13-04, passed 6-22-16)
§ 37.07 DELINQUENCY.
   Failure to pay the monthly remittance within ten days after the above due
date shall constitute a violation of this chapter, resulting in an automatic
penalty of 10%, together with interest on all delinquent payments of 10% per
annum.
(Ord. 16-06-13-04, passed 6-22-16)
CHAPTER 38: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAXES
Section
   
38.01   Definitions
   
38.02   Business license tax
   
38.03   Payroll tax
   
38.04   Information to remain confidential
   
38.05   Use of business license tax and payroll tax
 
   
38.99   Penalty
§ 38.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted. BUSINESS ENTITY shall not include
funds, foundations, corporations, or associations organized and operated for
the exclusive and sole purpose of religious or charitable purposes.
   CITY. The City of Kuttawa, Kentucky.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under Section 401
(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 458 of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including but not limited to
Sections 125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency or instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. The person or entity for which an individual performs or performed
any service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person or entity.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All revenues or proceeds derived from the sale, lease, or
rental of goods, services, or property by a business entity reduced by the
following:
      (1)   Sales and excise taxes paid; and
      (2)   Returns and allowances.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services,
or property.
   TAXABLE GROSS RECEIPTS.
      (1)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue both
within and without the city means gross receipts as defined in this section, as
apportioned under §
38.02.
      (2)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue only
in the city means gross receipts as defined in this section.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year upon the basis of which gross receipts are
computed.
(Ord. 04-10-23-01, passed 5-8-23)
§ 38.02 BUSINESS LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   Business license required. Every business entity engaged in any
business in the city shall apply for and obtain a business license from the
city before the commencement of business. Licensees are required to notify the
city of any changes in address or any other changes that render the information
supplied to the city in the license application inaccurate. The cost of each
license shall be $50.
   (B)   Apportionment.
      (1)   (a)   This division applies only to business entities doing
business both inside and outside the city.
         (b)   Because the business license tax is due only for business
conducted inside the city limits, this division provides the formulas to
calculate what fraction of a business entity's gross receipts is subject to the
business license tax.
         (c)   Forms are available at City Hall to assist with these
calculations.
      (2)   Gross receipts shall be apportioned as follows:
         (a)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in
more than one tax district, by multiplying the gross receipts by a fraction,
the numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B)(3)
immediately below, plus the sales factor, described in division (B)(4)
immediately below, and the denominator of which is two; and
         (b)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the gross receipts by the sales factor as set forth in
division (B)(4) below.
      (3)   Payroll factor. The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of
which is the total amount paid or payable in the city during the taxable year
by the business entity for compensation, and the denominator of which is the
total compensation paid or payable by the business entity everywhere during the
taxable year. Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the
individual's service is performed within the city.
      (4)   Sales factor. The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of
which is the total sales revenue of the business entity in the tax district
during the taxable year, and the denominator of which is the total sales
revenue of the business entity everywhere during the taxable year.
   (C)   Returns required.
      (1)   Every business entity shall submit a business license tax return
for the preceding taxable year by April 15 each year except returns made on the
basis of a fiscal year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth
month following the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be
supplied by the city.
      (2)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return at the time of filing its return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion
of the city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any
business entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business
entity to produce for inspection a copy of all statements and schedules in
support thereof. The city may also require copies of reports of adjustments
made by the federal government.
      (3)   Every business entity shall, no later than 60 days following the
enactment of this section, provide to the city a list of all vendors with whom
it conducts business within the city. Thereafter, every business entity shall
furnish with its business license tax return an updated list of all vendors
with whom it conducts business within the city.
(Ord. 04-10-23-01, passed 5-8-23) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.03 PAYROLL TAX.
   (A)   Payroll tax required. The payroll tax shall be measured by 1.5% of all
wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work done or services
performed or rendered in the city by an employee.
   (B)   Employer to withhold. Every employer making payments of compensation
to an employee shall deduct and withhold upon the payment of the compensation
the payroll tax required by this chapter. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the
city in accordance with division (C) immediately below. If the employee's
employer does not withhold the payroll tax required pursuant to this chapter,
the employee shall pay over to the city in accordance with division (C)
immediately below the payroll tax due.
   (C)   Returns required. Every employer required to deduct and withhold
payroll tax pursuant to this chapter shall submit a payroll tax return on a
quarterly basis.
   (D)   Liability of employer for failure to withhold or pay payroll tax.
      (1)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums of
payroll tax required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be
personally and individually liable to the city for any sum withheld or required
to be withheld.
      (2)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer
who fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld
under this chapter. If the employer withholds but fails to pay to the city the
amounts withheld, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld
were required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the
lien shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by
the city.
   (E)   Reporting requirements.
      (1)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold payroll tax pursuant
to this chapter shall annually, on or before February 28 of each year, submit a
detailed employee listing indicating the amount of compensation paid to each
employee.
      (2)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of payroll tax deducted by the
employer from the employee's compensation and paid to the city for the
preceding calendar year.
(Ord. 04-10-23-01, passed 5-8-23) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.04 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   No present or former employee of the city shall intentionally and without
authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or her of the
affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules, returns, or
reports required to be filed with the city, or any information produced by a
hearing or investigation, insofar as the information may have to do with the
affairs of the person's business. This prohibition does not extend to
information required in prosecutions for making false reports or returns for
taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws, or in any way made a matter
of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing any taxpayer or the
taxpayer's properly authorized agent with information respecting his or her own
return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude any employee of the city
from testifying in any court, or from introducing as evidence returns or
reports filed with the city, in an action for violation of a city tax law or in
any action challenging a city tax law.
(Ord. 04-10-23-01, passed 5-8-23) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.05 USE OF BUSINESS LICENSE TAX AND PAYROLL TAX.
   All money derived from the occupational license, designated business license
taxes and payroll taxes herein, shall be paid to the city and placed to the
credit of the city's general revenue fund.
(Ord. 04-10-23-01, passed 5-8-23) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any business entity that fails to file a business license tax return
or pay the required business license tax by April 15 shall be subject to a
penalty equal to 5% of the business license tax due. The total penalty levied
pursuant to this division (A) shall not be less than $25.
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a payroll tax return or pay the
payroll tax on or before the quarterly due dates shall be subject to a penalty
in an amount equal to 5% of the payroll tax due for each delinquent quarterly
period. The total penalty levied pursuant to this division (B) shall not be
less than $25. If an employer does not withhold payroll tax due pursuant to
this chapter, and the employee is therefore responsible for payment of the
payroll tax, the employee shall be subject to the penalty described herein.
    (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, an amount
equal to 12% per annum simple interest shall accrue on any delinquent business
license tax or payroll tax. A fraction of a month is counted as an entire
month.
   (D)   The city shall be entitled to recover all costs and reasonable
attorney's fees incurred by the city in enforcing any provision of this
chapter.
   (E)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
38.04 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both. If such violator is a city employee, such employment
with the city shall be immediately terminated.
   (F)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
38.04 by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not longer than one year, or both. If such
violator is a city employee, such employment with the city shall be immediately
terminated.
(Ord. 04-10-23-01, passed 5-8-23)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   NATURAL GAS
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM
      
52.   WASTEWATER TREATMENT
CHAPTER 50: NATURAL GAS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Tampering with gas mains, connections, or service pipes prohibited
   
50.03   Gas Inspector; powers and duties
   
50.04   Gas fitter’s bond and license
   
50.05   Permit required for repair, installation and the like; property owner’s
responsibility
   
50.06   Application for permit
   
50.07   Only approved appliances to be installed; specifications
   
50.08   Materials
   
50.09   Size and length of pipe
   
50.10   Drips and supports
   
50.11   Flues, vents and regulators
   
50.12   Tests, inspection, and certificate of inspection
   
50.13   Meter location and appliances
   
50.14   Application of standards of American Society of Mechanical Engineers
Code
   
50.15   Gas Inspector to decide all controversies
   
50.16   Piping to meet safety code standards
   
50.17   Plastic piping regulations
Rates and Charges
   
50.25   Monthly gas rates
   
50.26   No free service; bill to city
   
50.27   Billing procedure; penalties for delinquency
   
50.28   Reserved
   
50.29   Service agreement
   
50.30   Meter deposits
   
50.31   Persons to whom bills rendered
   
50.32   Connection charges
   
50.33   Notice taken of statutory requirements; other ordinances
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COATED and WRAPPED PIPE. Iron or steel pipe which has been thoroughly
cleaned, painted with asphalt or pitch and wrapped with burlap, asbestos felt
or other suitable protective covering.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. This chapter, and the sections contained herein, shall
become effective immediately unless stated otherwise.
   HOUSE PIPING. The gas pipe from the gas meter outlet to the gas burning
appliance or appliances.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, association or corporation.
   SERVICE LINE. The gas pipe from the city’s main to the meter location.
(Ord. passed 2-1-65)
§ 50.02 TAMPERING WITH GAS MAINS, CONNECTIONS, OR SERVICE PIPES PROHIBITED.
   No one except the city shall at any time turn any valve or cock or in any
way tamper or make any connection with any gas main, meter connection or gas
service pipe between the main and the meter.
(Ord. passed 2-1-65) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 GAS INSPECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint a competent person as Gas Inspector.
   (B)   The Gas Inspector and their assistants are authorized, empowered, and
directed to inspect and supervise the installation, construction,
reconstruction and repair of all house gas piping, gas appliances, fixtures and
apparatus now or hereafter to be placed in, or in any manner directly attached
to, any building or structure within the city, and its gas service territory.
The Gas Inspector and their assistants shall be subject to the orders and
directions of the Mayor and City Council, and they are vested with full
authority to enter any building or premises at any reasonable time in the
discharge of their duties imposed.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Gas Inspector to receive all applications
for connection; to pass on and approve or reject plans submitted; to issue
permits for all plumbing work, extensions, or change in location of fixtures;
to sign and issue all notices; to keep a daily record of all applications
received, plans approved and all other matters which may pertain thereto; and
to make a monthly record of their operations to the Mayor and City Council.
   (D)   The Gas Inspector shall inspect as often as necessary all houses in
the course of erection, alteration or repair and shall inspect any plumbing of
any character already in use which he may have reason to believe is out of
repair or is imperfect.
   (E)   The Gas Inspector shall give the owner or agent in charge of any
building written notice of any defects in their plumbing or fixtures or changes
or repairs necessary and such owner or agent shall within five days after such
notice make necessary changes or repairs. If the owner or agent fails to comply
with this notice, the Gas Inspector may order the Gas Service Department to
turn off the gas and it shall not thereafter turn the gas on again until the
Gas Inspector has certified that such defects have been repaired or removed.
   (F)   The Gas Inspector shall furnish the Gas Service Department with a copy
of each certificate of inspection. The Department shall not turn gas into any
new or altered or repaired system of gas until such certificate has been
received.
   (G)   It shall also be the duty of the Gas Inspector to investigate all
alleged violations of the provisions of this subchapter and to file complaints
when necessary.
(Ord. passed 2-1-65)
§ 50.04 GAS FITTER’S BOND AND LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person, before entering upon the installation, construction,
reconstruction, or repair of any gas house piping in the city and its gas
service territory, shall be required to take out a gas plumbing license, the
cost of which shall be $15. The license may be renewed at any time during the
months of January and February in the year following its issuance upon payment
of the sum of $10. Before the license is issued, the party applying for same
shall pass such examination required by the Mayor and City Council as to their
knowledge of gas fitting, shall deposit with the City Clerk, a bond in the
principal sum of $1,000, executed by a solvent surety company conditioned that
the principal therein shall faithfully comply with the terms of this subchapter
and shall indemnify and hold harmless the city and all persons interested,
against all costs, expenses, damage and injury sustained by the negligence of
such principal, their agents, servants and employees, or their failure to
comply ethically with the terms of this subchapter in doing work made the
subject matter hereof, and otherwise to be in the form and executed as required
by the Mayor and City Council. Upon approval of any bond by the Mayor and City
Council, the Clerk shall forthwith issue to the principal therein a license,
which shall remain in force only so long as the principal’s bond is effective.
Such bond shall be renewed annually on January 1 of each year as a prerequisite
to the issuance of a license for the year. The license shall be conspicuously
displayed at the principal’s place of business.
   (B)   The license may be at any time suspended or revoked by the Mayor and
City Council upon the recommendation of the Inspector for any violation of the
terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-1-65) Penalty, see §
50.99
Cross-reference:
   General licensing provisions, see
Ch. 110
§ 50.05 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR REPAIR, INSTALLATION AND THE LIKE; PROPERTY OWNER’S
RESPONSIBILITY.
   No property owner shall cause, or permit any installation, construction,
reconstruction or repair of any gas house piping in the city and its gas
service territory before the person doing the work shall have first obtained a
permit from the Gas Inspector to do the same; and the mere fact that the work
has been done will be considered sufficient to hold and render the property
owner amenable to this rule.
(Ord. passed 2-1-65) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Before the construction, reconstruction, installation or repair of any
gas house piping, suitable plans and specifications of all the work proposed to
be done, showing clearly the sizes of pipe, kind of fittings, locations and
measurements, made out on blanks furnished by the Gas Inspector and properly
signed by the owner, their agent, or other authorized representative and filed
at the office of the Gas Inspector. All connections and fixtures shall be
neatly drawn in the following manner: in case of new work or extension of old
work, black ink shall be used; in case of old work, red ink shall be used.
   (B)   If the plans are approved by the Gas Inspector, he will issue a
written permit within two days after the application is filed. No change or
modification of approved plans will be permitted unless such change or
modification are authorized by the owner or agent, submitted to and approved by
the Gas Inspector, and placed on file as in the case of original work. No
infraction or rule not specially authorized in writing by the Gas Inspector,
will be permitted even if it may be shown on the plan and has passed
inspection. The Gas Inspector always reserves the right to compel the rules
even though the work has passed inspection and a final inspection certificate
issued, and the plumber’s bond will be held for same.
   (C)   No permit to install, construct, reconstruct, or repair any gas house
piping shall be issued, except to a licensed plumber or a person licensed to do
such work in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-1-65) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 ONLY APPROVED APPLIANCES TO BE INSTALLED; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All gas appliances shall be of a design and construction approved as
to safety by the American Gas Association, except such apparatus as the
Association does not accept for test and approval, and such apparatus not so
accepted must be of a design and construction set forth in specifications of
the Bureau of Standards of the United States Department of Commerce.
   (B)   All gas burning appliances shall be provided with a lever handle stop
cock located in the riser above the floor and below the union at the appliance.
   (C)   In all buildings used for commercial purposes the connection to gas
burning appliances shall be of a rigid metal. In private residences, portable
heating appliances may be connected with flexible metal or rubber tubing not
over six feet in length and approved by the American Gas Association, provided
there is no cock on the portable heating appliance.
   (D)   No gas burning appliance or any portion thereof coming in direct
contact with gas flames or hot gases shall be placed less than ten inches from
any woodwork or wooden lath and plaster partition, unless metal shields are
provided, securely attached, and so placed as to preserve an air space of not
less than one inch between such shield and partitions. Where such shields are
provided, the ten-inch clearance above specified may be reduced to six inches.
(Ord. passed 2-1-65) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 MATERIALS.
   (A)   All gas house piping shall be of best quality wrought iron, black
steel, copper or brass, and free from all defects. The use of second hand or
reconditioned pipe is forbidden.
   (B)   The part of the pipe as is laid under or upon the surface of the
ground shall be coated and wrapped, as the term COATED AND WRAPPED is defined
in this subchapter. The part of the pipe as is laid in or touching any material
corroding or tending to corrode, iron or steel pipe, such as cinders, cinder
concrete, and the like, shall be coated and wrapped.
   (C)   Stops and hose cocks on gas house piping shall be ground key type with
lever handle.
   (D)   Gas fittings for piping three inches in diameter or smaller shall be
black malleable iron, copper, or brass, but cast iron fittings are permitted
for piping for a diameter greater than three inches.
   (E)   On concealed piping no bushings, unions or running threads are to be
used, but faced bushings are permitted on exposed piping. When piping is cut
for repairs, it shall be reconnected with right and left threaded couplings.
Three-way valves and the use of cement for repairing the pipe and fittings are
forbidden.
   (F)   There shall be no direct connection between pipes or fittings of
different material without the installation of insulated couplings.
(Ord. passed 2-1-65) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 SIZE AND LENGTH OF PIPE.
   The following ratios shall govern the size and length of runs of pipe to be
used in piping buildings and structures.
   (A)   Minimum diameter of supply line from meter to kitchen in houses and
flats and apartments of:
      (1)    Less than six rooms, one-inch;
      (2)   Six to nine rooms, 1¼ inches;
      (3)   Nine to 12 rooms, 1½ inches;
      (4)   For houses containing 12 rooms and more, or where conditions are
unusual, consult the Gas Inspector.
   (B)   The diameter of branch supply pipes to all cooking ranges, stoves, and
water heaters (circulating, instantaneous, storage, and automatic) shall be one
commercial size larger than the inlet connection of the appliance served
thereby.
   (C)   Pipe serving hot air furnaces, boilers and gas burning appliances
using burners having two or three air mixers shall be not less than 1½ inches
in diameter. Larger installations to be based on the same ratio.
   (D)   Greatest length of pipe of various sizes allowed for gas piping.
No. of         ½-inch¾-inch1-inch 1¼-inch1½-inch2-inch
½” Openings
No. of         ½-inch¾-inch1-inch 1¼-inch1½-inch2-inch
½” Openings
1              20     60     100    150     200     300
2              10     50     80     150     200     300
3              —    40     70     150     200     300
4              —    30     60     120     200     300
5              —    —    50     100     170     300
7              —    —    40     90      140     300
9              —    —    30     70      120     275
11             —    —    —    50      100     250
15             —    —    —    30      70      225
20             —    —    —    —     50      190
 
   (E)   In applying the foregoing table, the following rule shall prevail:
      (1)   One radiant heater outlet equals one ½-inch opening.
      (2)   One gas log or other grate fire equals one ½-inch opening.
      (3)   One kitchen range equals two ½-inch openings.
      (4)   One gas water heater equals one ½-inch opening. (Unless larger than
½-inch opening is required for heater.)
      (5)   One ¾-inch outlet shall be considered as equivalent to three ½-inch
outlets and a one-inch outlet as equivalent to five ½-inch outlets.
      (6)   All gas piping must be reamed free of burrs.
   (F)   When extensions to house piping are made, the provisions in this
section providing greatest length of pipe of various sizes allowed must be
complied with.
   (G)   When necessary to connect two sizes of pipe, a reducing coupling shall
be used.
   (H)   Gas must not be supplied from a smaller pipe to a larger pipe.
   (I)   All branch outlet pipes shall be taken from the top of sides of main
supply lines and never from below.
(Ord. passed 2-1-65) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 DRIPS AND SUPPORTS.
   (A)   All house piping shall be graded to a drip located in an accessible
place. Where possible, house piping will be drained away from meter and the
drip placed at the far end of the main supply line. Otherwise, drip will be
placed at meter location and pipe graded to same. The diameter of drips shall
be not less than that of the pipe to which attached and of a length at least
six times the diameter. No drip less than four inches long shall be installed.
   (B)   All house piping shall be secured and fastened to floor joists or
sills either with galvanized pipe straps or pipe hooks or with perforated pipe
straps.
   (C)   The maximum spacing of supports for piping shall be:
   (D)   When it is necessary in running pipe to cross through wood joists or
beams, such joists or beams shall never be notched more than one-fifth of the
depth of the timber and such notching shall be in no case further from the
point of support of the timber than one-sixth of the total unsupported span
thereof. Whenever possible, the piping should run so that only timbers having
the shortest spans shall be cut.
(Ord. passed 2-1-65) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.11 FLUES, VENTS AND REGULATORS.
   (A)   When more than one gas burning appliance is connected with the same
flue, the diameter of such flue must be at least equal to the combined diameter
of the vent outlets of such appliances. No more than three appliances shall be
connected to the same flue.
   (B)   Gas furnaces and gas fired water heaters must be provided with vent
and flue connections having a diameter at least as large as the vent
connections on the appliance and such vent must extend to open air at least two
feet above the roof and terminate with a screened cap.
   (C)   All vents to gas burning appliances shall be installed in the manner
required by the National Board of Fire Underwriters.
   (D)   All gas burning appliances having pilot burners must be provided with
down draft devices between the fixture and vent.
   (E)   Central heating plants and automatic gas steam radiators must be
provided with a gas regulator set ahead of meter to regulate the flow of gas to
the appliances. Central heating boilers must have an automatic temperature or
pressure control on the boiler itself, connecting to a quick acting or snap
acting gas valve in the supply line to the boiler. A gas pressure regulator or
governor requiring access to the atmosphere for successful operation, should be
vented to the outer air, or into a combustion chamber adjacent to a constantly
burning pilot.
   (F)   When air or oxygen under pressure is used in connection with gas
supply, effective means shall be provided to prevent the air or oxygen from
going back into the gas piping.
(Ord. passed 2-1-65) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12 TESTS, INSPECTION, AND CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   When gas house piping has been installed in a building or structure,
whether the same be new construction, repairs or extensions, the same must be
inspected and tested in the presence of the Gas Inspector or one of their
assistants and a certificate of inspection issued as herein provided and an
inspection tag attached to such piping by the Gas Inspector. The test shall be
made by closing all openings and subjecting all the piping to air pressure that
will support a column of mercury ten inches in height. If this column of
mercury is supported by the air pressure for at least 15 minutes, the piping
shall be considered tight and in compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   No fire test or water test shall be permitted on gas house piping and
water tested piping will be condemned as faulty.
2023 S-13
   (C)   When the system of piping and all extensions thereto have been
completed and all openings firmly closed, the person installing such piping
shall make the test above provided, and if the piping is found tight, shall
make application for test to the Gas Inspector. Upon such application, the Gas
Inspector or one of their assistants will inspect the piping and shall witness
the test, and if the piping is found tight and the work done is in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter, then such Gas Inspector or assistant
shall issue and deliver a certificate in substantially the following form:
            No.               
This is to certify that I have inspected and witnessed the test of the gas
piping in                            Building No.                    same is
installed in compliance with the City’s Gas Ordinance.
            Gas Inspector
            By:                      
   (D)   Any additional gas piping or outlets installed, after the above
certificate has been issued, must be reported for inspection and tested in the
same manner as pipe originally installed.
(Ord. passed 2-1-65) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.13 METER LOCATION AND APPLIANCES.
   (A)   The house piping shall be extended to the meter location designated by
the distributor of gas and a swing joint provided for connecting house piping
to the meter outlet.
   (B)   No gas meter shall be installed or maintained under the floor of any
building or structure unless there is suitable ventilation, and in any such
installation an opening at least two feet square in the foundation or skirting
within two feet of the meter shall be provided and maintained.
   (C)   No gas meter shall be installed and maintained in a small unvented or
confined space.
   (D)   When more than one meter is required to serve consumers in one
building or structure, the city may set as many meters as there are separate
consumers, connecting such meters to one service line. When this is done, the
riser pipes serving the several consumers shall be extended to within 18 inches
and within the same enclosure as the meter location and shall not be scattered,
but shall drop together in alignment and at least three inches apart to the
place where the meters are to be set.
(Ord. passed 2-1-65) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.14 APPLICATION OF STANDARDS OF AMERICAN SOCIETY OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
CODE.
   Where the standards for methods, materials or installation of equipment or
appliances are not otherwise specified in this subchapter, then the standards
established by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Code shall apply.
(Ord. passed 2-1-65)
§ 50.15 GAS INSPECTOR TO DECIDE ALL CONTROVERSIES.
   The Gas Inspector shall decide all controversies which may arise under this
subchapter, and in so doing shall be subject to the control and direction of
the Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. passed 2-1-65)
§ 50.16 PIPING TO MEET SAFETY CODE STANDARDS.
   All piping utilized for the transmission of natural gas within the City of
Kuttawa, Kentucky, shall be installed, maintained, constructed, and
reconstructed in a good and workmanlike manner, and in a manner consistent with
all safety codes made applicable by law.
(Ord. 12-2-96, passed 12-2-96)
§ 50.17 PLASTIC PIPING REGULATIONS.
   In the installation, construction, reconstruction and adjustment of the pipe
lines for the distribution of natural gas within the City of Kuttawa, leading
to (but not beyond) the gas meters of each individual customer, the use of
plastic piping is authorized, subject to all regulations provided by law, and
also subject to the following particular rules:
   (A)   Rule 1: Install plastic pipe manufactured under the ASTM D2513
specifications. The pipe must have ASTM D2513 marked on it.
   (B)   Rule 2:
      (1)   Make each joint in accordance with written procedures that have
been proven by test or experience to produce strong gas tight joints.
      (2)   The manufacturer of the pipe or fitting should supply the operator
with the procedures for his specific product in the manufacturer’s manual. When
installing the pipe, make certain that these procedures are followed (49 CFR
192.283). All joints must be made by a person qualified under 49 CFR 192.285.
   (C)   Rule 3: Install properly designed valves in a manner which will
protect the plastic material. Protect the pipe from excessive torsional
(twisting) or shearing (cutting) loads when the value is operated. Protect from
any secondary stresses which might be induced through the valve or its
enclosure.
   (D)   Rule 4: Prevent pullout and joint separation. Plastic pipe must be
installed in such a manner that expansion and contraction of the pipe will not
cause pullout or separation of the joint. Operators unfamiliar with plastic
pipe should have a qualified person perform all these procedures.
   (E)   Rule 5: When installing plastic pipe in a metal pipe, make a
sufficient allowance for thermal expansion and contraction. Make an allowance
at lateral and end connections on inserted plastic pipes, particularly those
over 50 feet in length. End connections must be designed to prevent pullout
caused by thermal contraction. It is desirable that fittings used should be
able to restrain a force equal to or greater than the strength of the pipe. If
not, the pipe should be restrained by anchoring, bracing, offset connection, or
straps across the fitting. To minimize the stresses caused by thermal
contraction, pipes inserted in the summer should be allowed to cool to ground
temperature before tie-ins are made.
   (F)   Rule 6: Repair or replace imperfections or damages before placing the
pipe in service.
   (G)   Rule 7: Install all plastic mains below ground level (buried). Where
the pipe is installed in a vault or other below grade enclosure, it must be
completely encased in gas-tight metal pipe with fittings that are protected
from corrosion. (For service line, see Rule 8). The plastic pipe installation
must minimize shear and other stresses. Thermoplastic (PE) pipe for direct
burial must have a minimum wall thickness or 0.090 inch. (Exception: pipe with
an outside diameter of 0.875 inch (7/8:) or less may have a minimum wall
thickness of 0.062 inch.) A plastic main that is not encased must have an
electrically conductive wire or other means of locating the pipe while it is
underground.
   (H)   Rule 8: Install all plastic service lines below ground. A portion of
the plastic service line may terminate above ground if it is protected against
deterioration and external damage by a casing. The plastic must not be used to
support external loads.
   (I)   Rule 9: Test installed plastic pipe at least at a level 150 percent of
the maximum operating pressure or 50 psi, whichever is greater. However, the
test pressure may not be more than three times the design pressure of the pipe.
(See Appendix L.)
   (J)   Rule 10: Take special care to ensure that plastic pipe is continually
supported along its entire length by properly tamped and compacted soil.
   (K)   Rule 11: If Plastic pipe is laid where there has been digging and
backfilling below the pipe, reinforce the pipe. To prevent any shear or other
stress concentrations, use external stiffeners at connections to main, valves,
meter risers, and other places where compression fittings might be used. (See
Appendix L.)
   (L)   Rule 12: In the laying of plastic pipe, ensure adequate slack
(snaking) in the pipe to prevent pullout due to thermal contraction.
   (M)   Rule 13: Lay plastic pipe and backfill with material that does not
contain any large or sharp rocks, broken glass, or other objects which could
cut or puncture the pipe. Where such conditions exist, suitable bedding (sand)
and backfill must be provided. In laying plastic pipe for protection, it must
be uniformly bedded in a four to six-inch trench with a minimum depth of 30
inches, with two inches under, six inches over and two inches on each side with
material of Kentucky Department of Transportation approved manufactured sand or
#11, or natural sand finer than 3/8 inch and a #12 tracer wire on top of the
six-inch sand cover.
   (N)   Rule 14: Take Special care to prevent coal tar type coatings or
petroleum base tape which can cause plastic pipe to deteriorate, from
contacting the plastic pipe.
(Ord. 12-2-96, passed 12-2-96)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.25 MONTHLY GAS RATES.
   (A)   When the gas distribution system and connecting main have been
completed and are placed in operation there shall be charged to consumers who
are provided with metered gas service, being read monthly, through such
facilities rates for gas service in accordance with the following schedule:
 
First MCF or less per month                   $9.20
Next two MCF used per month, per MCF          8.45
Next seven MCF used per month, per MCF        8.25
Next 40 MCF used per month, per MCF           8.20
All additional MCF used per month, per MCF    8.10
Minimum rate charge will be $9.20 per month
 
   (B)   Marathon Ashland Petroleum account and the Kentucky State Penitentiary
Boiler account are handled in separate negotiations.
   (C)   All rate minimums and other charges shall be automatically adjusted
(increased or decreased) according to the market fluctuations. The profit
margin for the city will remain the same as the previous Ordinance 98-7-6-3.
(Ord. 2-1-65-2, passed - -65; Am. Ord. 10-4-82-5, passed - -82; Am. Ord. 9-6-
83-2, passed - -83; Am. Ord. 3-3-86-1, passed - -86; Am. Ord. 97-11-3-9, passed
- -97; Am. Ord. 2000-8-7-3, passed 8-14-00; Am. Ord. 03-11-10-06, passed 12-17-
03)
§ 50.26 NO FREE SERVICE; BILL TO CITY.
   No free gas service shall be rendered to any consumer at any time. Gas
consumed by the city shall be billed to the city monthly as in the case of any
other customer and the same shall be paid from the general funds of the city
and accounted for as in the case of revenues from any other source.
(Ord. 2-1-65-2, passed - -65)
§ 50.27 BILLING PROCEDURE; PENALTIES FOR DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   The rates or charges as set forth in §
50.25 of this subchapter shall be billed on or about the first day of each
month. All bills for such service shall be due and payable when rendered. If
not paid by the seventeenth of the month following the date rendered, the bill
shall be delinquent, and a delay penalty equal to 10% of the face amount of the
bill shall become due and payable; provided, however, that if the seventeenth
day should fall upon a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday, then the face
amount of the bill may be paid on the next secular day which is not a holiday.
After the bill becomes delinquent the city will mail a Notice of Termination of
Services which will provide those services will be terminated if the bill is
not paid within ten days of the date of mailing. If the entire bill, together
with a penalty of 10% thereof, shall remain unpaid at 12:00 midnight on the
27th day of the month, service connection to the premises shall be
disconnected. If any such delinquent customer shall, thereafter, desire
reconnection, customer must pay for the city to reconnect the line with the
cost to customer calculated based upon the time and materials required by the
city as well as the cost of the meter, if necessary; and prior to such
reconnection, the customer shall be required to pay the delinquent bill, the
10% penalty, the charge for reconnection, and any unpaid meter deposit. Whether
or not any premises are disconnected because of the delinquency, the City
Attorney or any attorney duly authorized to act for it by the city, is
authorized and directed to enforce and collect the amount of any bills
remaining delinquent for 30 days after penalty is added (including the penalty,
interest of 6% from date the penalty is added and court costs), by suit in any
court of competent jurisdiction. The city shall be entitled to its costs and
expenses, including reasonable attorney fees, in the event such a suit is
necessary.
   (B)   In the event of the return of any check in payment of the monthly
rates and charges provided herein or in payment of meter deposits or connection
charges as provided below because of insufficient funds on deposit to cover
that check, there shall be an additional charge of $50.00.
(Ord. 2-1-65-2, passed - -65; Am. Ord, 98-7-6-3, passed - -98; Am. Ord. 05-03-
14-02, passed 4-11-05)
§ 50.28 RESERVED.
§ 50.29 SERVICE AGREEMENT.
   No services shall be provided to customer, including but not limited to the
installation of gas service to the property line, until customer has entered
into a service agreement with the city.
§ 50.30 METER DEPOSITS.
   Each user shall be required to deposit with the city a meter deposit which
sum shall be refunded to the user upon final disconnection of the user’s meter,
provided that the user is not delinquent in any charges imposed in this
chapter. If user becomes delinquent in payment of their bills, city may utilize
the deposit to pay the unpaid balance owed by user. User shall thereafter be
required to make payment to bring the deposit being held back to the required
amount as detailed below. The schedule for meter deposits is as follows:
 
Gas Meter          Deposit
AL-250 Residential $150.00
AL-425 Residential $150.00
AL-630 Commercial  $300.00
AL-800 Commercial  $400.00
AL-1400 Commercial $600.00
AI-2300 Commercial $1,000.00
 
(Ord. 2-1-65-2, passed - -65; Am. Ord. 98-7-6-3, passed - -98)
§ 50.31 PERSONS TO WHOM BILLS RENDERED.
   Bills for gas service shall be rendered to the party, whether the owner of
the premises or a tenant, filing a written application therefor on the
prescribed form, and complying with such deposit or other security provision as
may be prescribed.
(Ord. 2-1-65-2, passed - -65)
§ 50.32 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   The city will install gas service to the property line, and an
additional 100 feet onto the property, of anyone requesting new gas service
inside the city limits which expense shall be covered by the tap on fee. Any
additional distance the customer requests the city to extend the line will
require the customer to pay for any cost incurred to extend the line. This cost
will be calculated based upon the time required by city employees to extend
such line, any materials needed to perform the work, and any additional third-
party charges to retain a contractor to perform work which the city does not
provide. City and customer will agree upon the scope of work to be performed
prior to the initiation of any work by the city and the parties will enter into
a signed service agreement. Any changes requested by the customer must be
agreed to in writing in the form of a change order.
   (B)   Connection of any gas service beyond the city limits shall be
permitted only after written application has been approved. Any customer
requesting such service shall pay the entire cost of the extension of any main
necessitated by the granting of such a request. This cost will be calculated
based upon the time required by city employees to extend such line, any
materials needed to perform the work, and any additional third-party charges to
retain a contractor to perform work which the city does not provide. City and
customer will agree upon the scope of work to be performed prior to the
initiation of any work by the city and the parties will enter into a signed
service agreement. Any changes requested by the customer must be agreed to in
writing in the form of a change order. The city may provide and install at its
own expense, a gas meter and setting, and up to 100 feet
   (C)   With respect to connections both inside or outside the city limits,
the customer shall provide at their own expense all gas lines within their
property boundary.
   (D)   When any customer shall sign a written request for the removal or
relocation of any meter and/or line, that customer shall be responsible for the
entire cost of such removal or relocation.
   (E)   Any customer submitting an application for gas service shall tender
the meter deposit for which provision is made in §
50.29, and in addition shall pay as a connection charge or tap on fee the
amounts specified in the following schedule:
 
Gas Meter          Tap Fee
AL-250 Residential $500.00
AL-425 Residential $700.00
AL-630 Commercial  $2,000.00
AL-800 Commercial  $3,000.00
AL-1400 Commercial $4,000.00
AL-2300 Commercial $5,000.00
 
      (1)   Service inside city limits:      $200
      (2)   Service outside city limits:      $2,200 plus cost detailed in
division (B)
      This tap fee shall include the cost of the gas meter to be installed by
the city. The tap fee is in addition to any costs detailed in divisions (A) and
(B) of this section.
(Ord. 2-1-65-2, passed - -65; Am. Ord. 98-7-6-3, passed - -98; Am. Ord. 2000-8-
7-3, passed 8-14-00)
§ 50.33 NOTICE TAKEN OF STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS; OTHER ORDINANCES.
   Nothing set forth in this subchapter shall be construed in such manner as to
conflict with the requirements set forth in KRS Chapter 58, and in the
ordinance authorizing the issuance of “City of Kuttawa Natural Gas System
Revenue Bonds,” that the rents, royalties, fees, rates and charges for the
services rendered by the system shall be fixed and revised from time to time so
as to be sufficient to provide for payment of interest upon all bonds and to
create a sinking fund to pay the principal thereof when due, and to provide for
the operation and maintenance of the system, and adequate reserve,
depreciation, and improvement accounts; and it is expressly declared that rates
and charges set forth are initial only, and are not contractual, but will be
increased, if increase should be required at any time, or from time to time, to
comply with the requirements set forth in the statutes and in the ordinance.
(Ord. 2-1-65-2, passed - -65)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this chapter, or failing
to comply with any order of the Gas Inspector made pursuant to the powers
granted to him, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
shall be fined in any sum not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense,
or the gas fitter’s license of such person may be revoked, or both fine and
revocation of license may be imposed.
(Ord. passed 2-1-65)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Consolidation of municipal waterworks and sewer system
   
51.02   Authority for extension and reconstruction of system
   
51.03   Unlawful use of hydrants; customer distribution problems
Use of Public Sewers
   
51.15   Definition
   
51.16   Mandatory sewer connection
   
51.17   Privies unlawful
   
51.18   Private wastewater disposal
   
51.19   Connection of new structures
   
51.20   Compliance with local, state and federal laws
   
51.21   Unlawful discharge of stormwater or surface water
   
51.22   Liability of city for damages
Rates and Charges
   
51.30   No free service
   
51.31   All water service to be metered
   
51.32   When sewer service available and required
   
51.33   Charges to be collected from all premises where sewer service is
available
   
51.34   Service rates and charges
   
51.35   Water rates for customers outside city limits
   
51.36   Exceptions in application of sewer charge
   
51.37   Status of existing rates and charges
   
51.38   Billing procedure; penalty for delinquency; disconnection of water
service; reconnection; charges and interest
   
51.39   Service agreement
   
51.40   Service fees and deposits
   
51.41   Persons to whom bills rendered
   
51.42   Connection charges
   
51.43   Notice taken of statutory requirements
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Wastewater treatment, see
Ch. 52
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 CONSOLIDATION OF MUNICIPAL WATERWORKS AND SEWER SYSTEM.
   It is determined and ordained that the works and facilities supplying water
service and sewer service in and to the city, as they presently exist and as
they may hereafter from time to time be added to, extended, and improved, are
combined and consolidated and shall hereafter constitute a single municipal
water and sewer system, and so long as any of the revenue bonds hereafter
authorized or permitted to be issued by proceedings taken as a part of the
aforesaid project shall remain outstanding, the combined and consolidated
municipal water and sewer system shall be owned, controlled, operated, and
maintained on a combined and consolidated basis, for the security and source of
payment of the revenue bonds hereafter authorized. The combined and
consolidated municipal water and sewer system (hereinafter sometimes called
“the system”), is declared to constitute a public project within the meaning
and application of KRS 58.010 through 58.140, as amended.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 51.02 AUTHORITY FOR EXTENSION AND RECONSTRUCTION OF SYSTEM.
   Authority is hereby given for undertaking the construction and installation
of additions, improvements, and extensions of the system, according to the
plans and specifications prepared for the city by Rowe & Company Engineers, of
Lexington, Kentucky.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 51.03 UNLAWFUL USE OF HYDRANTS; CUSTOMER DISTRIBUTION PROBLEMS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation, who without at the time having in his,
their or its possession written permission so to do from and signed by such
person, firm, co-partnership or corporation as shall at the time be engaged in
the waterworks business in distribution and sale of water in this city, shall
suffer or permit any other person to unlawfully convert to their own use from
any pipe or hydrant located on premises owned by or under the control of the
person, firm, or corporation, any portion or quantity of such water furnished
by the person, firm, copartnership or corporation for distribution and sale.
Each day that the water is so suffered or permitted to be so wrongfully
converted shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm, co-partnership or corporation engaged in the
waterworks business or distribution and sale of water in this city shall have
the right and power to shut or cut off and refuse to furnish water to any
customer who suffers or permits their pipe or pipes, or hydrant or hydrants,
faucet or other fixtures, to leak or wastewater, or who fails or refuses to pay
the bills for such service.
   (C)   When any person, firm, co-partnership or corporation engaged in the
waterworks business or distribution and sale of water shall have shut or cut
off the water supply to any customer or have ordered any customer to use no
more of its water, for any lawful reason, it shall be unlawful for any person,
without previous written consent of the person, firm, copartnership or
corporation so engaged in the waterworks business or distribution and sale of
water, to turn on the water, or to turn any valve, cut-off, stop cock, faucet
or hydrant, or to use any of the water.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §
51.99
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the sewer system or sewers are AVAILABLE
if any such premises abut upon any street, road, alley, public way or easement
in which there is installed a sewer pipe, main, lateral, or other structure or
installation of the sanitary sewer system capable of receiving flowable wastes,
or if such premises shall be situated within 100 feet of such a sanitary sewer
installation.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 51.16 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is
hereby required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect with such facilities directly with the proper sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 100 feet
(30.5 meters) of the property line.
   (B)   All connections to the sanitary sewer system shall be made under and
in conformity with such regulations as the city may from time to time establish
by ordinance. Failure to affect such connection within the prescribed time is
declared to be unlawful and to constitute a public nuisance, and the same shall
be abated, subject to the penalty prescribed in this chapter.
   (C)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public system within 60 days in compliance with this chapter, and any
septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material or salvaged and
removed.
   (D)   No sewer tap or connection shall be made by any person, firm, or
corporation, except the city. The city will, upon application and payment of
the prescribed tapping or connection fee, tap the appropriate sewer facility
and extend a lateral line up to 50 feet to the property line of any applicant
where sewers are available, and any and all installations or connections shall
be made thereto by the applicant under the directions and supervision of the
city and in conformity with proper health standards. Any additional necessary
distance shall only be provided at the expense of the customer. Nothing
contained in this chapter shall be construed as requiring the city to furnish a
sewer connection or sewer service to any premises where a city sewer facility
is not available at the time the application is made.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 PRIVIES UNLAWFUL.
   From and after the time when a sewer connection is made available to any
premises, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
construct or maintain a privy, vault, cesspool, septic tank, or other similar
contrivance for the reception of flowable sewage wastes, and all such privies,
vaults, cesspools, septic tanks, and similar contrivances whereby flowable
sewage wastes are cast, drained, or deposited into a container above or below
the surface of the ground, or upon or into the soil, or into any running or
percolating stream of water, or into any cistern or well, are declared to be
unlawful and to constitute a public nuisance; and the same shall be removed by
the owners or the occupants of all premises where the sewer connection is made
available.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Public sewer not available.
      (1)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under §
51.16, the building sewer shall be connected, until the public sewer is
available, to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of Lyon County Health Department and all applicable local and state
regulations.
      (2)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
      (3)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by applicable
local or state regulations.
      (4)   Holders of NPDES/KPDES permits may be excepted. Industries with
current NPDES/ KPDES permits may discharge at permitted discharge points
provided they are in compliance with the issuing authority.
   (B)   Requirements for installation.
      (1)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all local or state regulations.
      (2)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the local
and state authorities.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 51.19 CONNECTION OF NEW STRUCTURES.
   All architects, engineers, contractors, builders or other persons who shall
erect new premises where sewers are available shall, before erecting the same,
exhibit to the city, through such officer or employee as may be designated from
time to time for such purpose, satisfactory evidence that a means has been or
will be provided for connecting all sanitary sewage drains and outlets from
such building or structure with the municipal sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   The discharge of any wastewater into the public sewer system by any person
is unlawful except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and any
more stringent state or federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, the Clean Water Act of 1977,
and subsequent amendments, and 40 CFR 403.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 51.21 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER OR SURFACE WATER.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged, through any
leak, defect, or connection any unpolluted waters such as storm water,
groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, or cooling water to any sanitary
sewer, building sewer, building drain or building plumbing. The manager or
representative shall have the right, at any time, to inspect the inside or
outside of buildings or smoke test for connections, leaks, or defects to
building sewers and require disconnection or repair of any pipes carrying such
water to the building sewer. No sanitary drain sump or sump pump discharge by
manual switchover of discharge connection shall have a dual use for removal of
such water.
   (B)   The owners of any building sewers having such connections, leaks, or
defects shall bear all costs to remove of such sources. Such connection shall
be existing illicit connections within 30 days of notice of the illicit
connection.
   (C)   Any violation of this section will be subject to the penalties
provided for under §
51.99.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 51.22 LIABILITY OF CITY FOR DAMAGES.
   The city shall not be liable for any damage to any customer of the sewer
utility service furnished by the city due to backflow of the sewerage system,
failure of supply, interruption of service, or any other cause outside the
direct control of the city. It is the customer’s responsibility to clear any
blockage, maintain, repair, and/or replace the lateral section of sewer line
extending from the building to the city sewer. The city shall not be liable for
any damage to any sewer customer due to sewage backflow resulting from blockage
or damage to the lateral sewer line connecting the building to the main sewer
line.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
Cross-reference:
   Wastewater treatment, see
Ch. 52
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.30 NO FREE SERVICE.
   No free use of the services and facilities of the system shall be granted or
permitted to any user thereof, including the city itself.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.31 ALL WATER SERVICE TO BE METERED.
   It is the purpose and intention that all water service provided by the
system shall be furnished through water meters provided and installed by the
city.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 51.32 WHEN SEWER SERVICE AVAILABLE AND REQUIRED.
   Sewer service is deemed available, and is required, in accordance with the
provisions of §§
51.30 through
51.43, which defines the term AVAILABLE, sets out the connection requirements
in detail, and prohibits the use of privies and other methods of sewage
disposal.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 51.33 CHARGES TO BE COLLECTED FROM ALL PREMISES WHERE SEWER SERVICE IS
AVAILABLE.
   The rates and charges prescribed for sewer service shall be made to and
collected from the owner or occupant of all premises within the city where
sewer service is available as defined by ordinance, whether such premises are
connected with the municipally-owned sewer pipes or not. In the case of
unconnected premises which are water customers of the municipally-owned water
system the rates and charges for sewer service shall be according to the
schedule of sewer rates, as set forth in this subchapter. In the case of
unconnected premises producing sewage which are not water customers of the
municipal water system, a minimum monthly sewer charge as established by the
City Council shall apply. The fact that sewer charges may have been billed to
or collected from any such unconnected premises shall not have any bearing
upon, nor constitute a defense to, any criminal charge arising out of failure
to connect such premises to the system; but such monetary charges are and shall
be deemed to be civil exactions toward the costs of making sewer facilities
available, and the costs of operating and maintaining the same in the necessary
interests of the public health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.34 SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   All water meters shall be read monthly, and the following rates and
charges shall be applied to the meter readings, and billed, collected and
enforced:
 
Water Rate Charges Within the City Limits
First 1,000 gallons $22.50 minimum
Next 9,000 gallons  $8.25 per 1,000 gallons
Over 10,000 gallons $7.00 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   The rates for water to the Lyon County Water District, furnished
through meters #1 and #2 shall be $3.00 per 1,000 gallons. The rates for water
supplied through any additional meters shall be agreed upon at the time service
is started.
   (C)   The city will pay as fire hydrant rental $20.38 per month.
   (D)   Temporary special arrangements. In the matter of furnishing water
service upon a flat rate basis circuses, carnivals, tent meetings, outdoor
athletic events (other than those carried on public schools), and other
miscellaneous temporary uses, a flat rate may be fixed in each individual if
metered service is impractical. The service charge shall be paid in advance.
   (E)   The charges for sewer services shall be equal to the charge of water.
   (F)   Where a single operation, located in one building is serviced by more
than one meter, the total gallons supplied through all the meters shall be
added together in determining the water charge, there shall be an additional
charge of $1 per month for each water meter in excess of one.
   (G)   All of the foregoing rates, minimums and other charges may be adjusted
by the City of Kuttawa on February 1 of each year. Any adjustment to a
percentage increase of the rates, minimums, and other charges by the City of
Kuttawa shall be equal to the percentage increase of the cost of living index
for the preceding year as established by the Kentucky Department for Local
Government and as published by the Kentucky League of Cities. However, the City
of Kuttawa may, in its discretion, increase rates, minimums, and other charges
by any reasonable percentage increase that it deems reasonable or necessary.
Rates shall be rounded off to the nearest $.01, and minimums shall be rounded
to the nearest $.25.
   (H)   Seasonal disconnect. The city shall charge $75 for any seasonal
disconnect requested by customer. There will also be a $75 reconnection charge
for any seasonal disconnects requested by customer. In the event that customer
is requesting multiple utilities be seasonally disconnected or reconnected.
Customer shall only be charged $75 total per trip to customer’s property.
   (I)   In the event of the return of any check in payment of the monthly
rates and charges provided herein or in payment of meter deposits or connection
charges as provided below because of insufficient funds on deposit to cover
that check, there shall be an additional charge of $50.
(Ord. 1-7-63-1, passed 1-7-63; Am. Ord. passed 1-1-94; Am. Ord. passed 11-28-
94; Am. Ord. passed 1- -96; Am. Ord. 11-7-88-1, passed 1-1-97; Am. Ord. 98-7-6-
4, passed - -98; Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18; Am. Ord. 02-11-19-02, passed
3-11-19; Am. Ord. 01-06-20-01, passed 1-13-20) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.35 WATER RATES FOR CUSTOMERS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   The rates for customers who utilize the city water system and who either
receive the services outside the city limits or who are not subject to city
taxes even though they are within the city limits, except those who are tax
exempt due to their charitable, religious or educational status, are hereby
established to be equal to those of customers now served by the Lyon County
Water District and are subject to change as rates change for the Lyon County
Water District. The rates presently are as follows:
 
Usage               Existing Charges
First 1,000 gallons $31.00 minimum
Over 1,000 gallons  $10 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18; Am. Ord. 02-11-19-02, passed 3-11-19; Am.
Ord. 01-06-20-01, passed 1-13-20)
§ 51.36 EXCEPTIONS IN APPLICATION OF SEWER CHARGES.
   The city recognizes certain exceptional situations wherein adjustments in
the manner of applying sewer service charges should be permitted, and provision
is made for the same, as follows:
   (A)   Where more than 20% of the water used by the owner or occupant of any
premises during the year does not flow into the sanitary or combined sewer, the
percentage in excess of 20% shall be excluded from the calculation of the sewer
service rates and charges provided in this subchapter. It shall be the burden
of the owner or occupant of any such premises to prove to the city that more
than 20% of the water used on such premises during the year does not flow into
the sanitary or combined sewer, and such burden shall be deemed to be met only
upon a showing by the sewer user, to the satisfaction of the city, that the
quantity thereof is accurately measured by means of a standard water meter. In
the event the sewer user has no such evidence, a water meter for such purpose
may be provided by the city upon payment by the sewer user of the cost of the
necessary equipment and all expenses of installation. In no case, however,
shall the sewer service rates and charges provided in this chapter be
calculated upon less than 20% of the water used by the owner or occupant of any
premises during the year.
   (B)   Whenever it is determined by the city to be necessary to classify any
commercial institutions or industries by reason of the unusual purpose for
which water is used, or the character of the sewage, water, or other liquid
wastes discharged therefrom, or whenever the established schedules of sewer
service rates and charges for any reason are not applicable, then special sewer
service rates, rentals, or other charges may be established by the City
Council, and any person, firm, or corporation being dissatisfied with the
established schedule of sewer service rates, rentals, or other charges by
reason of peculiar or unusual use or occupancy of any premises, and
consequently alleging peculiar or unusual uses of water, may file application
with the city for special sewer service classification rates, rentals, and
charges. The city may take such action thereon as it sees fit; provided,
however, that no special classification or rate may be established if the
Housing and Home Finance Agency of the United States objects thereto.
   (C)   Sewer service charges shall not apply to bills representing surplus
water furnished at wholesale to other municipalities, communities, or water
systems; but if any municipality, community, or other entity shall desire to
make arrangements for disposal of all or a part of its flowable sewage wastes
through sewer lines or facilities of the city, same shall be only upon the
basis of a special contract specifically approved and authorized in each
instance by ordinance or resolution duly adopted by the city’s governing body.
The city recognizes no obligation or duty of any sort to enter into any such
contract or arrangement, and may entertain or refuse to entertain any such
proposal as it sees fit, and regardless of the fact that it may in the past
have seen fit, or may in the future see fit, to act otherwise or upon different
terms in any other similar or dissimilar cases.
   (D)   In the matter of the furnishing of sewer service upon a temporary
basis to circuses, carnivals, tent meetings, outdoor athletic events (other
than those carried on by the public school system) and other miscellaneous
temporary uses, a flat rate may be fixed in each individual case and the
service charge shall be paid in advance.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.37 STATUS OF EXISTING RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   It is provided in this subchapter that the prescribed rates and
charges for water service and for sewer service are to become effective as
applied to bills rendered on and after specified dates. It is the intention
that the rates and charges in this subchapter shall supersede any rates and
charges presently in force under existing ordinances, resolutions, rules, and
regulations. It is not intended that the rates and charges presently in force
be rescinded unless and until effectively replaced or superseded; nor that
there shall ever be a period of time when no lawful rate or charge for water
service or sewer service prevails.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, it is ordained that
presently prevailing rates, charges, rules, and regulations continue in force
until lawfully superseded.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.38 BILLING PROCEDURE; PENALTY FOR DELINQUENCY; DISCONNECTION OF WATER
SERVICE; RECONNECTION; CHARGES AND INTEREST.
   The rates or charges as set forth in this subchapter shall be billed on or
about the first day of each month and the water bill and sewer bill shall be
rendered at the same time and on the same bill forms, but as separate charges.
All bills for such service shall be due and payable when rendered. If not paid
by the seventeenth of the month following the date rendered, the bill shall be
delinquent, and a delay penalty equal to 10% of the face amount of the bill
shall become due and payable; provided, however, that if the seventeenth day
should fall upon a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday, then the face amount
of the bill may be paid on the next secular day which is not a holiday. After
the bill becomes delinquent the city will mail a Notice of Termination of
Services which will provide those services will be terminated if the bill is
not paid within ten days of the date of mailing. If the entire bill for both
water service and sewer service, together with the penalty of 10% thereof,
shall remain unpaid at 12:00 midnight on the 27th day of the month, service
connection to the premises shall be disconnected. If any such delinquent
customer shall, thereafter, desire reconnection, a charge in the sum of $75 is
fixed to cover the expense thereof, customer must pay for the city to reconnect
the line with the cost to customer calculated based upon the time and materials
required by the city as well as the cost of the meter, if necessary; and prior
to such reconnection, the customer shall be required to pay the delinquent
bill, the 10% penalty, and the charge for reconnection, along with an unpaid
deposits. Whether or not any premises are disconnected because of the
delinquency, the City Attorney or any attorney duly authorized to act for it by
the city, is authorized and directed to enforce and collect the amount of any
bills remaining delinquent for 30 days after penalty is added (including the
penalty, interest of 6% from date the penalty is added and court costs), by
suit in any court of competent jurisdiction. City shall be entitled to its
costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees, in the event such a
suit is necessary.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.39 SERVICE AGREEMENT.
   No water or sewer services shall be provided to customer until customer has
entered into a service agreement with the city.
§ 51.40 SERVICE FEES AND DEPOSITS.
   (A)   No services shall be performed on the customer’s side of the meter
without charge to customer at a rate to be fixed by the city. A fee of $75
shall be charged for turning on water for a customer after it has been turned
off at the request of the customer. In the event that customer is requesting
multiple utilities be seasonally disconnected or reconnected, customer shall
only be charged $75 total per trip to customer’s property.
   (B)   Each non-commercial user shall be required to deposit with the city a
fee in the sum of $200 as a meter deposit which sum shall be refunded to the
user upon final disconnection of the user’s meter, provided that the user is
not delinquent in any charges imposed in this chapter. If user becomes
delinquent in payment of their bills, city may utilize the deposit to pay the
unpaid balance owed by user. User shall thereafter be required to make payment
to bring the deposit being held back to the required amount as detailed below.
Each commercial user shall deposit a fee in the sum of $200 subject to the same
terms and conditions as set out in this chapter for non-commercial users. The
city may at any time refund any portion of the deposits upon a showing by the
affected user that their or its credit rating is such as to warrant a refund.
Interest accrued on the deposit shall be applied to the customer’s bill on an
annual basis. The city shall provide each customer a receipt of deposit.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18; Am. Ord. 01-06-20-01, passed 1-13-20)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.41 PERSONS TO WHOM BILLS RENDERED.
   Bills for water service shall be rendered to the party, whether the owner of
the premises or a tenant, filing a written application therefor on the
prescribed form, and complying with such deposit or other security provision as
may be prescribed. In the case of sewer service to premises which are connected
to the municipal water system, the bill for sewer service charges shall be
rendered to the water customer. In other cases, sewer rates and charges
aforesaid shall be billed to the owners of the premises, who is not the owner
thereof, filed with the city, accompanied by a cash deposit or other
appropriate security or indemnity in an amount or a kind approved by the city,
such bills may be rendered to such tenant.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §
51.99.
§ 51.42 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   The city will install new water service to the property line, up to ten feet
off of the main line, which expense shall be included within the tap fee
described below, of anyone requesting new water service inside the city limits.
Any additional length of new water service line shall be paid for at customer’s
expense. This cost will be calculated based upon the time required by city
employees to extend such line, any materials needed to perform the work, and
any additional third-party charges to retain a contractor to perform work which
the city does not provide. City and customer will agree upon the scope of work
to be performed prior to the initiation of any work by the city and the parties
will enter into a signed service agreement. Any changes requested by the
customer must be agreed to in writing in the form of a change order. Connection
of any water service beyond the city limits shall be permitted only after a
written application has been made to the Commission therefor and only if that
application has been approved. Any customer requesting such service shall pay
the entire cost of the extension of any main necessitated by the granting of
such a request. This cost will be calculated based upon the time required by
city employees to extend such line, any materials needed to perform the work,
and any additional third-party charges to retain a contractor to perform work
which the city does not provide. City and customer will agree upon the scope of
work to be performed prior to the initiation of any work by the city and the
parties will enter into a signed service agreement. Any changes requested by
the customer must be agreed to in writing in the form of a change order.
   (A)   With respect to connections both inside or outside the city limits,
the customer shall provide at their own expense all water and sewer lines
within their property boundary.
   (B)   When any customer shall sign a written request for the removal or
relocation of any meter and line, that customer shall be responsible for the
entire cost of such removal or relocation.
   (C)   Any customer submitting an application for water service shall pay as
a connection charge or tap on fee $1,800, which price is inclusive of the water
meter.
   (D)   As to the sewer customers, a connection charge of $2,100 is
established and shall be exacted for connection to new sewers, and shall be
payable in full before the connection is made.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.43 NOTICE TAKEN OF STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS.
   Nothing set forth in this subchapter shall be construed in such manner as to
conflict with the requirements set forth in KRS Chapter 58, and in the
ordinance authorizing the issuance of “City of Kuttawa Waterworks and Sewerage
System Revenue Bonds,” that the rents, royalties, fees, rates and charges for
the services rendered by the system shall be fixed and revised from time to
time so as to be sufficient to provide for payment of interest upon all bonds
and to create a sinking fund to pay the principal thereof when due, and to
provide for the operation and maintenance of the system, and adequate reserve,
depreciation, and improvement accounts; and it is expressly declared that rates
and charges set forth are initial only, and are not contractual, but will be
increased, if increase should be required at any time, or from time to time, to
comply with the requirements set forth in the statutes and in the ordinance.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §
51.99 
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to a penalty of not more than $500 or
imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
CHAPTER 52: WASTEWATER TREATMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Purpose; policy
   
52.02   Definitions and abbreviations
   
52.03   Falsifying information
Pollutant Discharge Limits
   
52.15   Substances which interfere with publicly-owned treatment works
   
52.16   Specific pollutant limitations
   
52.17   Grease trap
   
52.18   Excessive discharge; dilution of wastewater discharge
   
52.19   Accidental discharges
   
52.20   State requirements
   
52.21   City’s right of revision
   
52.22   Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards; modification procedure
Pretreatment Program Permit Administration
   
52.30   Permit to discharge wastes required
   
52.31   Wastewater contribution permits
   
52.32   Industrial pretreatment requirements
   
52.33   Industrial user discharge permits
   
52.34   Permit modifications
   
52.35   Permit conditions
   
52.36   Permit duration
   
52.37   Permit transfer
   
52.38   Compliance data report
   
52.39   Periodic compliance reports
   
52.40   Monitoring facilities
   
52.41   Inspection and sampling
   
52.42   Pretreatment
   
52.43   Confidential information
Fees
   
52.50   Purpose
   
52.51   Charges and fees
Violations; Remedies
   
52.60   Permit violations
   
52.61   Harmful contributions; suspension of utility service
   
52.62   Revocation of permit
   
52.63   Significant non-compliance
   
52.64   Signatory requirements
   
52.65   Liability
   
52.66   Misrepresentation and/or falsifying documents
   
52.67   Destruction of POTW and legal action
   
52.68   Injunctive relief
   
52.69   Legal action
   
52.70   Civil penalties
   
52.71   Criminal prosecution
   
52.72   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
52.73   Enforcement
   
52.74   Additional enforcement
Wastewater Charges
   
52.80   Purpose
   
52.81   Definitions
   
52.82   Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement Fund
   
52.83   User charge rates
   
52.84   Financial records; review
   
52.85   Billing
   
52.86   Connection charge
Cross-reference:
   Water and sewer system, see
Ch. 51
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 PURPOSE; POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the city
and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the general Pretreatment
Regulations (40 CFR, Part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system inadequately treated, into
receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system; and
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting, assumes that existing customer’s capacity will not be
preempted, and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution
of costs resulting from the program established in this chapter.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city
who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city POTW. Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Superintendent of the city POTW
shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.   
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et. seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director in an NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program and the Administrator of the EPA in a non-NPDES state or
NPDES state without an approved state pretreatment program.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE or INDUSTRIAL USER. An authorized
representative of an industrial user may be a principal executive officer of at
least the level of vice-president, if the industrial user is a corporation; a
general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a partnership or
proprietorship, respectively; a duly authorized representative of the
individual designated above if such representative is responsible for the
overall operation of the facilities from which the indirect discharge
originates.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20° C. expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams
per liter (mg/l)).
      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to the POTW.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standard.
      CITY. The City of Kuttawa or the City Council of Kuttawa.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria; plus any additional pollutants identified in the
publicly-owned treatment work’s NPDES permit, where the publicly-owned
treatment works is designed to treat such pollutants and, in fact, does treat
such pollutants to the degree required by the POTW’s NPDES permit.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. Shall refer to the APPROVAL AUTHORITY, as defined in
this section, or the Superintendent if the city has an approved pretreatment
program under the provisions of 40 CFR, 403.11.
      COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is
heat.
      DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater
directly to the waters of the state.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of the agency.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration
of time.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. All pollutants other than COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS
as defined in this section.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction or nondomestic
pollutants from any source regulated under Section 307(b) or (c) of the Act,
(33 U.S.C. 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into
the system).
      INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute
a discharge of pollutants under regulations issued pursuant to section 402, of
the Act. (33 U.S.C. 1342).
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment
processes or operations or that which contributes to a violation of any
requirement of the city’s NPDES Permit. The term includes prevention of sewage
sludge use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with Section 405 of the Act,
(33 U.S.C. 1345) or any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant
to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable
to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1347) which
applies to a specific category of industrial users.
      NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD. Any regulation developed under the authority of 307(b) of the Act and
40 CFR, Section 403.5.
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to Section 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1342).
      NEW SOURCE. Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a Section 307(c) (33 U.S.C.
1317) categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to such
source, if such standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of proposal
in the Federal Register. Where the standards promulgated later than 120 days
after proposal, a new source means any source, the construction of which is
commenced after the date of promulgation of the standard.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
      pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
      POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
      POLLUTION. The man-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological, and radiological integrity of water.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological process, or
process changes other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR Section 403.6(d).
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a National Pretreatment Standard imposed on
an industrial user.
      PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by
Section 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. 1292) which is owned in this instance by the
city. This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purposes of this chapter,
POTW shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from
persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users
of the city’s POTW.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the city’s wastewater
disposal system who has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average
work day; has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the city’s wastewater
treatment system; has in their wastes toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to
Section 307 of the Act of state statutes and rules or is found by the city,
(State Control Agency) or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to
have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on the wastewater treatment system, the quality of
sludge, the system’s effluent quality, or air emissions generated by the
system.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
      STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the city to supervise the
operation of the publicly-owned treatment works and who is charged with certain
duties and responsibilities by this section, or their duly authorized
representative.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as
toxic in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency under the provision of CWA 307(a) or other acts.
      USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the city’s POTW.
      WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted
to enter the POTW.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water courses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
      WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT. As set forth in §
52.31.
   (B)   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
      BOD      Biochemical Oxygen Demand
      CFR      Code of Federal Regulations
      COD      Chemical Oxygen Demand
      EPA      Environmental Protection Agency
      l      Liter
      mg      Milligrams
      NPDES   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
      POTW      Publicly-Owned Treatment Works
      SIC      Standard Industrial Classification
      SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901, et. seq.
      USC      United States Code
      TSS      Total Suspended Solids
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.03 FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
   No person shall knowingly make any false statement, representation, or
certification in any application, record, report, plan, or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or wastewater
contribution permit, or falsify, tamper with, or knowingly render inaccurate
any monitoring device or method required under this chapter.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §§
52.60 through
52.74
POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS
§ 52.15 SUBSTANCES WHICH INTERFERE WITH PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS.
   (A)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation
or performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all such users
of a POTW whether or not the user is subject to National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards or any other national, state, or local pretreatment
standards or requirements. A user may not contribute the following substances
to any POTW:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall two successive readings
on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at
any point in the system) be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the
Lower Explosive Limit (LEL) of the meter. Prohibited materials include, but are
not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers,
alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates,
carbides, hydrides, sulfides, and any other substances which the city, the
state, or EPA has notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the system.
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to grease, garbage with particles greater
than one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure,
bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes,
cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal glass, straw, shavings,
grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics,
gas, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or
lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes.
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0, unless the POTW is
specifically designed to accommodate such wastewater, or wastewater having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and/or personnel of the POTW.
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or to
exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard. A toxic
pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant identified pursuant
to Section 307(a) of the Act.
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which, either
singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair.
      (6)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the
POTW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case, shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in non-compliance with sludge use
or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under Section 405 of
the Act; any criteria, guidelines, or regulations affecting sludge use or
disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act,
the Toxic Substances Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used.
      (7)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES and/or
state disposal system permit or the receiving water quality standards.
      (8)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
      (9)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which exceeds
40°C. (104°F.).
      (10)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, and
the like) released at a flow and/or pollutant concentration which a user knows
or has reason to know will cause interference to the POTW. In no case shall a
slug load have a flow rate or contain concentration or qualities of pollutants
that exceed for any time period longer than 15 minutes more than five times the
average 24-hour concentration, quantities, or flow during normal operation.
      (11)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such halflife or concentration as may exceed limits established by the
Superintendent in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      (12)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance.
   (B)   When the Superintendent determines that a user(s) is contributing to
the POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in such amounts as to
interfere with the operation of the POTW, the Superintendent shall advise the
user(s) of the impact of the contribution on the POTW; and develop, effluent
limitation(s) for such user to correct the interference with the POTW.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §§   
52.60 -
52.74
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful discharge of stormwater or surface water, see §
51.21 
§ 52.16 SPECIFIC POLLUTANT LIMITATIONS.
   No person shall discharge wastewater containing excess amounts of the
following items: arsenic, cadmium, copper, cyanide, lead, mercury, nickel,
silver, total chromium, zinc, total identifiable chlorinated hydrocarbons, and
phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by the city’s wastewater treatment
processes. The Sewer Superintendent shall provide the specific pollutant
limitations upon request.
(Ord. 18-09-10-1, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.17 GREASE TRAP.
   (A)   Any commercial or public facility engaged in the manufacture,
processing, preparation or service of food or food products shall have an
appropriate grease trap as defined at KRS 21.970(4). Wastewater, drain piping
from food processing equipment, sinks for washing of food, equipment and
utensils, mop or cleaning-sinks, hand sinks, dishwashers, floor drains and
ventilation systems and filters in food preparation and processing areas shall
be separated from other wastewater piping and shall be discharged into grease
trap prior to introduction into the sanitary sewer system of the City of
Kuttawa.
   (B)   The grease trap shall be a minimum size of 1,000 gallons and be
located as close as practicable to the source of the wastewater. The grease
trap shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and with removable
covers.
   (C)   Grease traps shall be maintained in continuously efficient operating
condition at all times.
   (D)   Grease traps shall be pumped and emptied on a regular basis before
complete filling to prevent any overflow, backflow or wastewater piping
stoppage, at a minimum of every three months.
   (E)   All users shall maintain records of the pumping and emptying of the
grease trap and shall provide such records for inspection by representatives of
the City of Kuttawa to insure compliance with this chapter. All users shall
deliver to the City of Kuttawa such releases or authorizations as necessary to
enable the city’s verification of the pumping and emptying of grease traps.
   (F)   Any facility that fails to comply with this chapter shall be granted a
period of 15 days to correct any deficiency and comply. After the 15-day period
any facility still not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
incur a civil penalty of $500 per day with each day to constitute 2023 S-13
   (G)   Within 90 days after the enactment and publication of this chapter,
all users shall file a plan for compliance and a copy of a contract for the
installation of the necessary grease trap. All users shall be in compliance
with the provisions on this chapter on or before 180 days after its
publication.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.18 EXCESSIVE DISCHARGE; DILUTION OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the Federal
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in any other pollutant specific
limitation developed by the city or state. (Dilution may be an acceptable means
of complying with some of the prohibitions set forth in § 52.15 such as the pH
prohibition.)
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.19 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Facilities
to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the owner or user’s own cost and expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the city for review, and shall be approved by the city before
construction of the facility. All existing users shall complete such a plan by
January 1, 1983. No user who commences contribution to the POTW after the
effective date of this chapter shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into
the system until accidental discharge procedures have been approved by the
city. Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not
relieve the industrial user from the responsibility to modify the user’s
facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. In the case of
an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately
telephone and notify the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include
location of discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective
actions.
   (B)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the Superintendent a detailed written report
describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user
to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as
a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or
property, nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this subchapter or other
applicable law.
   (C)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall insure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.20 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.21 CITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish by ordinance more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the wastewater disposal system if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
52.01.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.22 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS; MODIFICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon the promulgation of the Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standard
for a particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if more
stringent than limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that
subcategory shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this
chapter. The Superintendent shall notify all affected users of the applicable
reporting requirements under 40 CFR Section 403.12.
   (B)   Where the city’s wastewater treatment system achieves consistent
removal of pollutants limited by Federal Pretreatment Standards, the city may
apply to the approval authority for modification of specific limits in the
Federal Pretreatment Standards. For the purpose of this division, CONSISTENT
REMOVAL shall mean reduction in the amount of a pollutant or alteration of the
nature of the pollutant by the wastewater treatment system to a less toxic or
harmless state in the effluent which is achieved by the system in 95% of the
samples taken when measured according to the procedures set forth in Section
403.7(c)(2) of Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 403 - “General
Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New Sources of Pollution” promulgated
pursuant to the Act. The city may modify pollutant discharge limits in the
Federal Pretreatment Standards if the requirements contained in 40 CFR, Part
403, Section 403.7, are fulfilled and prior approval from the approval
authority is obtained.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
PRETREATMENT PROGRAM PERMIT ADMINISTRATION
§ 52.30 PERMIT TO DISCHARGE WASTES REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge without a city permit to any natural
outlet within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, and/
or to the POTW any wastewater except as authorized by the Superintendent in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.31 WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMITS.
   (A)   General permits. All significant users proposing to connect to or to
contribute to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW. All existing significant users
connected to or contributing to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater contribution
permit within 180 days after the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Permit application.
      (1)   Users required to obtain a wastewater contribution permit shall
complete and file with the city, an application in the form prescribed by the
city, and accompanied by a fee of $100. Existing users shall apply for a
wastewater contribution permit within 30 days after the effective date of this
chapter, and proposed new users shall apply at least 90 days prior to
connecting to or contributing to the POTW. In support of the application, the
user shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
         (a)   Name, address, and location, (if different from the address);
         (b)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
         (c)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including but not
limited to those mentioned in §§
52.15 through
52.21 as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory; sampling and analysis
shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA
pursuant to Section 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 CFR, Part 136, as
amended;
         (d)   Time and duration of contribution;
         (e)   Average daily and three-minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
         (f)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size,
location and elevation;
         (g)   Description for activities, facilities and plant processes on
the premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
         (h)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in
the discharge which are limited by any city, state or Federal Pretreatment
Standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user to meet
applicable pretreatment standards;
         (i)   If additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance will
be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which
the user will provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this
schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for the
applicable pretreatment standard. The following conditions shall apply to this
schedule:
            1.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form
of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (such as, hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction, and the
like).
            2.   No increment referred to in division (B)(1)(i)1. of this
section shall exceed nine months.
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the Superintendent.
         (j)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
         (k)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         (l)   Number of type of employees, and hours of operation of plant,
and proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
         (m)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
      (2)   The city will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the city may issue a wastewater contribution permit subject to terms
and conditions provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §§
52.60 -
52.74
§ 52.32 INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements imposed on publicly owned wastewater
treatment works by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972
and later amendments, all Pretreatment Standards promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency for new and existing industrial dischargers to
public sewer systems are hereby made a part of this chapter. Any industrial
waste discharge which violates these EPA Pretreatment Standards shall be in
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, the industry shall be solely responsible for
the continued maintenance in satisfactory and effective operation of such
facilities at their own expense. The city may agree to assume these
responsibilities if proper and appropriate arrangement for reimbursement of
costs are made.
   (C)   Any person who transports septic tank, seepage pit or cesspool
contents, liquid industrial waste or other batch liquid waste and wishes to
discharge such waste to the public sewer system shall first have a valid
discharge permit. All applicants for a discharge permit shall complete the
application form, pay the appropriate fee, and receive a copy of the city’s
regulations governing discharge to sewers of liquid wastes from trucks. All
persons receiving such permits shall agree, in writing, to abide by all
applicable provisions of this chapter, and any other special provisions that
may be established by the city as necessary for the proper operation and
maintenance of the sewerage system.
      (1)   In addition, any person holding a valid permit and wishing to
discharge to the wastewater treatment plant must submit to the Chief Operator a
sample of each load prior to discharge. A fee and payment schedule shall be
established in the permit to cover cost of the required analysis.
      (2)   It shall be illegal to discharge any batch liquid waste into any
manhole or other part of the public sewer system, or any building sewer, or
other facility that discharges to the public sewer system, except at designated
points of discharge specified by the city for such purpose.
      (3)   Any liquid waste hauler illegally discharging to the public sewer
system or discharging wastewater not authorized in the permit shall be subject
to immediate revocation of discharge privileges and further subject to the
penalties and enforcement actions prescribed in §§
52.60 through
52.74 including fines and imprisonment.
      (4)   Waste haulers who have been granted permission to discharge to the
public sewer system shall pay fees for such discharge in accordance with a fee
schedule established by the Superintendent and approved by the city.
      (5)   Nothing in this chapter shall relieve waste haulers of the
responsibility for compliance with Lyon County Health Department, state, or
federal regulations.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.33 INDUSTRIAL USER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   General. All significant industrial users proposing to connect to or
to contribute to the POTW shall obtain an Industrial User Permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
   (B)   Permit application. Users required to obtain an industrial user permit
shall complete and file with the city, an application in the form prescribed by
the city, and accompanied by a permit fee. New users shall apply at least 90
days prior to connecting to or contributing to the POTW. Existing permit holder
shall apply no later than 60 days prior to expiration of permit. In support of
the application, the user shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for
evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and location if different from the address;
      (2)   SIC number(s) according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, United States Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by an
analytical laboratory acceptable to the city; sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to
Section 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 CFR, Part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by the city, state, or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional pretreatment
is required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standards; the following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
         a.   The schedule must be acceptable to the city.
         b.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards.
         c.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress and the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
the rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number of employees, and hours of operation of plant and proposed
or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application;
      (14)   A copy of the industry’s written environmental control program,
comparable document, or policy.
   (C)   Issuance. The city shall evaluate the data furnished by the user and
may require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the City Engineer or their designee may issue an industrial
wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and conditions provided herein.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.34 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   Within nine months of the promulgation of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard, the wastewater contribution permit of users subject to
such standards shall be reviewed to require compliance with such standard
within the time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a
National Categorical Pretreatment Standard, has not previously submitted an
application for a wastewater contribution permit as required by §
52.31(B), the user shall apply for a wastewater contribution permit within 180
days after the promulgation of the applicable National Categorical Pretreatment
Standard. In addition, the user with an existing wastewater contribution permit
shall submit to the Superintendent within 180 days after the promulgation of an
applicable Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standard the information required
by §
52.31(B)(1)(h) and (i).
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.35 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all provisions of
this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges and fees
established by the city. Permits may contain the following:
   (A)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
   (B)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
   (C)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
   (D)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
   (E)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for tests and
reporting schedule;
   (F)   Compliance schedules;
   (G)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge reports
(see §§
52.36 and
52.37);
   (H)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating to
wastewater discharge as specified by the city, and affording city access
thereto;
   (I)   Requirements for notification of the city or any new introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
   (J)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges as per §
52.61;
   (K)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.36 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five
years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be stated to
expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum
of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing permit. The terms
and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the city during
the term of the permit as limitations or requirements as identified in §§
52.15 through
52.21 are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in their permit at least 30 days prior to the effective
date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.37 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or changed
operation without the approval of the city. Any succeeding owner or user shall
also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing permit.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §§
52.60 -
52.74
§ 52.38 COMPLIANCE DATA REPORT.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new source, following commencement
of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject to
pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the Superintendent a
report indicating the nature and concentration of all pollutants in the
discharge from the regulated process which are limited by pretreatment
standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow for these
process units in the user facility which are limited by such pretreatment
standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent basis and,
if not, what additional operation and maintenance and/or pretreatment is
necessary to bring the user into compliance with the applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized
representative of the industrial user, and certified to by a qualified
professional.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §§
52.60 -
52.74
2023 S-13
§ 52.39 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the compliance date
of such pretreatment standard or, in the case of a new source, after
commencement of the discharge into the POTW, shall submit to the Superintendent
during the months of June and December, unless required more frequently in the
pretreatment standard or by the Superintendent, a report indicating the nature
and concentration, of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by the
pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include a record of all
daily flows which during the reporting period exceeded the average daily flow
reported in §
52.36. At the discretion of the Superintendent and in consideration of such
factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles, and the like,
the Superintendent may agree to alter the months during which the above reports
are to be submitted.
   (B)   The Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users which are
using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in
other cases where the imposition of mass limitations are appropriate. In such
cases, the report required by division (A) of this section shall indicate the
mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the
user. These reports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the
discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration, or production
and mass where requested by the Superintendent, of pollutants contained therein
which are limited by the applicable pretreatment standards. The frequency of
monitoring shall be prescribed in the applicable pretreatment standards. All
analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by the
Administrator pursuant to Section 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 CFR,
Part 136 and amendments thereto or with any other test procedures approved by
the Administrator. Sampling shall be performed in accordance with the
techniques approved by the Administrator.
(Comment: Where 40 CFR, Part 136 does not include a sampling or analytical
technique for the pollutant in question, sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication,
Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for
Priority Pollutants, April, 1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other
sampling and analytical procedures approved by the Administrator.)
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.40 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city shall require to be provided and operated at the user’s own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the
city may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area and located that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
written notification by the city.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §§
52.60 -
52.74
§ 52.41 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city or their representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, records examination, or in the performance of any of their duties.
The city, approval authority, and (where the NPDES state is the approval
authority) the EPA shall have the right to set up on the user’s property such
devices as are necessary to conduct sampling inspection, compliance monitoring,
and/or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in force which
would require proper identification and clearance before entry into their
premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards
so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the city,
approval authority, and the EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for
the purposes of performing their specific responsibilities.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §§
52.60 -
52.74
§ 52.42 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all Federal
Categorical Pretreatment Standards within the time limitations as specified by
the federal pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat
wastewater to a level acceptable to the city shall be provided, operated, and
maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment
facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the city for review,
and shall be acceptable to the city before construction of the facility. The
review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user
from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an
effluent acceptable to the city under the provisions of this chapter. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior to the user’s initiation of
the changes.
   (B)   The city shall annually publish in the local newspaper a list of the
users which were not in compliance with any pretreatment requirements or
standards at least once during the 12 previous months. The notification shall
also summarize any enforcement actions taken against the user(s) during the
same 12 months.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the EPA or approval authority upon request.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.43 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits, monitoring programs, and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the city that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit, State Disposal System
Permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such portions
of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (C)   Information accepted by the city as confidential, shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the city
until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18) Penalty, see §§
52.60 -
52.74
FEES
§ 52.50 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the recovery of costs
from users of the city’s wastewater disposal system for the implementation of
the program established in this chapter. The applicable charges or fees shall
be set forth in the city’s schedule of charges and fees.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.51 CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city may adopt charges and fees which may include:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
city’s pretreatment program;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
      (4)   Fees for permit applications;
      (5)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (6)   Fees for consistent removal (by the city) of pollutants otherwise
subject to Federal Pretreatment Standards;
      (7)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained in this chapter.
   (B)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the city.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
VIOLATIONS; REMEDIES; PENALTIES
§ 52.60 PERMIT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users must notify the Superintendent within
24 hours of first becoming aware of a permit violation. This notification shall
include the date of violation, the parameter violation, and the amount in
exceedance.
   (B)   The user shall immediately repeat the sampling and analysis of the
parameter(s) in question and submit the results to the Superintendent within 30
days after becoming. aware of the violation. Exception to this regulation is
only if the city performs the sampling within the same time period for the same
parameter(s) in question.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.61 HARMFUL CONTRIBUTIONS; SUSPENSION OF UTILITY SERVICE.
   (A)   The city may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a
wastewater contribution permit when such suspension is necessary, in the
opinion of the city, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health
or welfare of persons, to the environment, causes interference to the POTW or
causes the city to violate any condition of is NPDES Permit.
   (B)   Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater contribution permit shall immediately stop or
eliminate the contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed
necessary including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or
minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The city
shall reinstate the wastewater contribution permit and/or the wastewater
treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge.
A detailed written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the
harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence
shall be submitted to the city within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.62 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any user who violates the following conditions of this chapter or applicable
state and federal regulations, is subject to having their permit revoked in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this subchapter:
   (A)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of their discharge;
   (B)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
   (C)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring; or
   (D)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.63 SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE.
   A user is defined as being in significant non-compliance when it commits one
or more of the following conditions:
   (A)   Causes imminent endangerment to human health or the environment or
results in the exercise of emergency authority;
   (B)   Involves failure to report non-compliance accurately;
   (C)   Results in a chronic violation defined here as 66% or more of all
measurements taken during a six-month period that exceed (by any magnitude) the
daily maximum limit or the monthly average limit for the same pollutant
parameter;
   (D)   Results in a Technical Review Criteria (TRC) Violation defined here as
33% or more of all measurements for each pollutant parameter taken during a
six-month period that equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum limit or
the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS,
fats, and oil and grease and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   (E)   Any violation of a pretreatment effluent limit that the control
authority determines has caused, along or in combination with other discharges,
interference, or pass through, or has endangered the health of the POTW
personnel or the public;
   (F)   Any discharge causing imminent endangerment to human health/welfare or
to the environment, or resulting in the POTW’s use of its emergency authority
to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (G)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, failure to comply with
schedule milestones for starting or completing construction or attaining final
compliance by 90 days or more after the schedule date;
   (H)   Failure to provide required reports within 30 days of the due date;
   (I)   Any violation or group of violations which the control authority
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.64 SIGNATORY REQUIREMENTS.
   All applications, reports or information submitted to the city shall be
signed and certified.
   (A)   All permit applications shall be signed:
      (1)   For a corporation: by a principal executive officer of at least the
level of vice-president;
      (2)   For a partnership or sole proprietorship: by a general partner or
the proprietor, respectively.
   (B)   All other correspondence, reports, and self-monitoring reports shall
be signed by a person described above or by a duly authorized representative of
that person. A person is a duly authorized representative only if:
      (1)   The authorization is made in writing by a person described above;
      (2)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having facility or activity, such as the position of plant manager,
superintendent, or position of equivalent responsibility.
   (C)   Certification. Any person signing a document under this section shall
make the following certification:
“I certify under penalty of law that I am familiar with the information
contained in this report and its attachments and that to the best of my
knowledge and belief such information is true, complete and accurate.”
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.65 LIABILITY.
   Any user violating any of the provisions of this chapter, discharge permit,
or other order issued hereunder shall become liable to the City of Kuttawa for
any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such
violation. This civil liability is as provided by state and federal
regulations.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.66 MISREPRESENTATION AND/OR FALSIFYING DOCUMENTS.
   Any user who knowingly and/or negligently makes any false statements,
representations, or certification of any application, record, report, plan, or
other document filed or required pursuant to this chapter or industrial user
discharge permit or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly and/or
negligently renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter, shall be punished by a fine of at least $1,000 or by imprisonment
for not more than 12 months or by both.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.67 DESTRUCTION OF POTW AND LEGAL ACTION.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is part of the POTW. Any person(s) violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. It
shall be noted that the Clean Water Act does not require proof of specific
intent to obtain conviction.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.68 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this
chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, the Superintendent, through
counsel may petition the Court for the issuance of a preliminary or permanent
injunction or both (as may be appropriate) which restrains or compels the
activities on the part of the industrial user.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.69 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes into the
city’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
federal or state pretreatment requirements or any order of the city, the City
Attorney may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief
in the Circuit Court of this county.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.70 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any user who has significantly violated or continues to violate this
chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, may be liable to the
Superintendent for a civil penalty of not more than $100 per day plus actual
damages incurred by the POTW per violation per day for as long as the violation
continues. Each day in which such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense. In addition to the above described penalty and damages, the
Superintendent may recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs, court
reporter’s fees, and other expenses associated with the enforcement activities,
including sampling and monitoring expenses.
   (B)   The Superintendent may petition the Court to impose, assess and
recover such sums. In determining amount of liability, the Court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective actions by the
user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice
requires.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.71 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   Violations; general.
   (A)   Any user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter or any orders or permits issued hereunder shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $100 per violation
per day, or imprisonment for not more than one year, or both.
   (B)   In the event of a second conviction, the user shall be punishable by a
fine not to exceed $10,000 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more
than three years or both.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.72 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Right to enter premises. The Superintendent and other duly promulgated
employees and representatives of the city and authorized representatives of
applicable federal and state regulatory agencies, bearing proper credentials
and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose
of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to
discharges to the public sewer system in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Right to obtain information regarding discharge. The Superintendent
and other duly authorized employees of the city and authorized representatives
of applicable federal and state regulatory agencies, bearing proper credentials
and identification, are authorized to obtain information including but not
limited to copying of records concerning character, strength, and quantity of
industrial wastes which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the wastewater collection system.
   (C)   Access to easements. Duly authorized employees and representatives of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purpose of, but no limited to, construction, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portions of
the wastewater facilities lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent
work on said easement, if any, shall be done in full accordance with the terms
of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   (D)   Safety. While performing the necessary work on private properties
referred to in division (C) above, all duly authorized employees of the city
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company. The company shall be held blameless for injury or death to city
employees. The city shall secure the company against loss or damage to its
property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required by
this chapter.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.73 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The city, through the Superintendent or their designee, to insure
compliance with this chapter, and as permitted through 40 CFR Subchapter N, and
401 KAR 5:055, may take the following enforcement steps against users in non-
compliance with the chapter. The remedies available to the POTW include
injunctive relief, civil and criminal penalties, immediate discontinuance of
discharges and/or water service and the publishing of the list of significant
violators annually. The enforcement authority shall be vested in the
Superintendent or their designee.
      (2)   The Superintendent may suspend the wastewater treatment service
and/or an industrial user permit when such suspension is necessary, in the
opinion of the city, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health
or welfare of persons, to the environment, causes interference to the POTW or
causes the city to violate any condition of its NPDES/KPDES permit.
      (3)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the industrial user permit shall immediately stop or eliminate
the contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The city shall
reinstate the industrial user permit and/or the wastewater treatment service
upon proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge. A detailed
written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be
submitted to the city within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
   (B)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Any user found to be violating any provisions of this chapter,
wastewater permit, or any order issued hereunder, shall be served by the city
with written notice stating the nature of the violation(s). Within ten days of
the receipt date of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for
the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific
required actions, shall be submitted to the Superintendent. Submission of this
plan in no way relieves the user of potential liability for any violation
occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
      (2)   If the violations persist or the explanation and/or plan are not
adequate, the city’s response shall be more formal and commitments (or
schedules as appropriate) for compliance will be established in all enforceable
document. The enforcement response selected will be related to the seriousness
of the violation. Enforcement responses will be escalated if compliance is not
achieved expeditiously after the initial action. A significant non-compliance
as defined in Article VI, Subparagraph 0, will require a formal enforcement
action.
      (3)   The full scale of enforcement actions will be as detailed in the
Enforcement Response Plan.
      (4)   Any user who after receiving a notice of violation shall continue
to discharge in violation of this chapter or other pretreatment standards or
requirements or is determined to be a chronic or persistent violator or who is
determined to be a significant violator, shall be ordered to appear before the
city. At said appearance, a compliance schedule will be given to the non-
conforming user and an administrative fine assessed The fine shall be
determined on a case-by-case basis which shall consider the type and severity
of violations, duration of violation, number of violations, severity of impact
on the POTW, impact on human health, users economic benefit from the violation,
history of violations, good faith of the user, and shall be a non-arbitrary but
appropriate amount.
      (5)   The administrative order may take any of the following three forms:
         (a)   Consent orders: The Superintendent or their designee is hereby
empowered to enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or
other similar documents establishing an agreement with the user responsible for
the noncompliance. Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the
user to correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the
order. Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as orders issued
pursuant to division (C)(3) below.
         (b)   Compliance order: When the Superintendent or their designee
finds that an user has violated or continues to violate the ordinance, or a
permit, or order issued thereunder, he may issue an order to the user
responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specific time period,
sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices, or other related appurtenances have been installed and are properly
operated. Orders may also contain such other requirements as might be
reasonably necessary and appropriate to address the noncompliance, including
the installation of pretreatment technology, additional self-monitoring, and
management practices.
         (c)   Cease and desist orders: When the Superintendent finds that a
user has violated or continues to violate this chapter or any permit or order
issued hereunder, the Superintendent may issue an order to cease and desist all
such violations and direct those persons in noncompliance to:
            1.   Comply forthwith; or
            2.   Take such appropriate remedial or preventative action as may
be needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and terminating the discharge.
   (C)   Show cause hearing. The Superintendent or their designee may issue to
any user who causes or contributes to violations of this chapter; wastewater
permit, or order issued hereunder, an order to appear and show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be served on
the user specifying the time and place of the hearing to be held by and before
the Superintendent regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to be
taken, the proposed enforcement action, and directing the user to show cause
why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the
hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return
receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be made on
any agent or officer of the industrial user. Whether or not a duly notified
industrial user or its representative appears, immediate enforcement action may
be pursued.
      (1)   The city may, itself, conduct the hearing and take the evidence, or
designate a representative to:
         (a)   Issue, in the name of the city, notices of hearings requesting
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence
relevant to any matter involved in such hearing;
         (b)   Take the evidence;
         (c)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the city for
action thereon.
      (2)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony must be
taken under oath and recorded stenographical. The transcript, so recorded, will
be made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the usual charges thereof.
      (3)   After the city has received the evidence, it may issue an order to
the user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified
time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are property operated.
Further orders and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.74 ADDITIONAL ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Performance bonds. The Superintendent may decline to reissue a permit
to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of this
chapter or any order or previous permit issued hereunder unless such user first
files with it a satisfactory bond, payable to the POTW, in a sum not to exceed
a value determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to achieve consistent
compliance.
   (B)   Liability insurance. The Superintendent may decline to reissue a
permit to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of
this chapter or any order or pervious permit issued hereunder, unless the
industrial user first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances
sufficient to restore or repair POTW damage caused by its discharge.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
WASTEWATER CHARGES
§ 52.80 PURPOSE.
   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the city to
collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the Kuttawa
Wastewater Treatment Works. The proceeds of such charges so derived will be
used for the purpose of operating and maintaining the public wastewater
treatment works.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 57.81 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20ºC, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   COMMERCIAL USER. All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings,
laundries, and other private business and service establishments.
   DEBT SERVICE. Charges levied on users of the wastewater treatment works to
support the annual debt service obligations of the system.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Legislative, judicial, administrative, and regulatory
activities of federal, state, and local governments.
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). A source of indirect discharge which does not
constitute a “discharge of pollutants” under regulations issued pursuant to §
402 of the Clean Water Act.
   MAY.  Is permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 250 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than 250
mg/l and any other pollutant, NH3-N of not more than 25 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Those functions that result in expenditures
during the useful life of the treatment works for materials, labor, utilities,
and other items which are necessary for managing and for which such works were
designed and constructed. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes REPLACEMENT as
defined below.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any contributor to the city treatment works whose lot,
parcel, or real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes
only.
   SHALL.  Is mandatory.
   SS (SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of municipal wastewater, domestic wastewater, or
liquid industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers,
wastewater collection systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof, elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; any works, including site
acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment process
or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment
including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of such compost and
land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land treatment systems
before land application; or any other method or system for preventing, abating,
reducing, storing, treating, separating, or disposing of municipal waste or
industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary sewer
systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. The total wastewater service charge which is levied in a
proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation, maintenance,
replacement, and debt service expenses of the wastewater treatment works.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by a user and approved by the city.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.82 OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   The revenues collected, as a result of the user charges levied, shall
be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the Operation,
Maintenance, and Replacement Fund.
   (B)   Fiscal year-end balances in the Operation, Maintenance, and
Replacement Fund shall be used for no other purposes than those designated.
Monies which have been transferred from other sources to meet temporary
shortages in the Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement Fund shall be returned
to their respective accounts upon appropriate adjustment of the user charge
rate(s) for operation, maintenance, and replacement. The user charge rate(s)
shall be adjusted such that the transferred monies will be returned to their
respective accounts within six months of the fiscal year in which the monies
were borrowed.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.83 USER CHARGE RATES.
   (A)   The following schedule of user charge rates shall apply to each user
of the wastewater treatment works. The rates in this schedule include revenue
for operation, maintenance, and replacement and debt service, based on the
volume of metered water consumption.
 
Usage               Rate
First 1,000 gallons $22.50 minimum
Over 1,000 gallons  $8.25 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   For residential, industrial, institutional, and commercial users,
monthly user charges will be based on actual water usage. If a residential,
commercial, institutional, or industrial user has a consumptive use of water,
or, in some other manner, uses water which is not discharged onto the
wastewater collection system, the user charge for that customer may be based on
readings of a wastewater meter(s) or separate water meter(s) installed and
maintained at the user’s expense. The minimum expense for a separate water
meter will include paying an additional tap-on fee and meter deposit. The only
exceptions to the above division will be for the initial filling of swimming
pools and on a one time per year adjustment for water line breakage on the
customer side of the water meter. The following divisions detail the process
for adjustments allowed under this section:
      (1)   Initial filling of swimming pools with a capacity of over 1,000
gallons. Customers may document the amount of water used to initially fill a
swimming pool (over 1,000 gallons) and then request a onetime per year
exemption from paying the sewer charge on the amount of water required to fill
the swimming pool. Proper documentation will include the length, width, and
depth of the pool so that the fill volume can be determined. The exemption must
be claimed in the month that the swimming pool is initially filled. After
initial filing, no additional sewer charge exemption(s) will be granted until
the next year no matter how many times the swimming pool is drained and filled.
      (2)   One time per year exemption for water line breaks on the customer
side of the water meter. If a customer has a break in their service line of
plumbing they may request a one-time per year exemption from paying the sewer
portion of the bill for the amount above the past 12 months average usage. For
customers with less than 12 months of usage history, the exemption will be for
the amount above the past months’ usage. The customer must pay all of the water
portion of the bill. The request for exemption must be made during the month
that the break occurs and must be accompanied with documentation that a leak
did exist and has been repaired. Proper documentation may include a statement
by the individual or company that repaired the line or plumbing or by
contacting the wastewater superintendent so that he or she may observe the
break.
   (C)   (1)   For those users whose wastewater has a greater strength than
normal domestic wastewater, a surcharge in addition to the normal user charge
will be collected.
      (2)   The city does not currently have or anticipate any customers that
will discharge wastewater with a strength greater than normal domestic
wastewater. If at some time in the future a customer will discharge wastewater
with high strength BOD or TSS, the city will develop a charge system for high
strength wastewater.
   (D)   Method of billing surcharges. The excessive strength surcharge shall
be based on a formula, with the total applied to the monthly bill of affected
users:
         Surcharge Formula: (A)(D-250) + B(E-250) + C(f-25) .00834 XG =
Surcharge Payment ($/mo.)
      (1)   Where formula components are as follows:
         (a)   Surcharge rate for BOD, in $/pound;
         (b)   Surcharge rate of SS, in $/pound;
         (c)   Surcharge rate for other pollutant(s) in $/pound;
         (d)   User’s average NOD concentration, in mg/l;
         (e)   User’s average SS concentration, in mg/l;
         (f)   User’s average other pollutants concentration, in mg/l;
         (g)   User’s monthly flow to wastewater works, per 1,000 gallons.
      (2)   No reduction in wastewater service charges, fees, or taxes shall be
permitted because of the fact that certain wastes discharged to the wastewater
works contain less than 250 mg/l of BOD, 250 mg/l of SS or 25 mg/l of NH3-N.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18; Am. Ord. 02-11-19-02, passed 3-11-19)
§ 52.84 FINANCIAL RECORDS; REVIEW.
   (A)   The city shall maintain financial records to accurately account for
revenues generated by the treatment system and expenditures for operation and
maintenance of the system, including normal replacement costs.
   (B)   The city shall review not less often than annually the wastewater
contribution of users, the total cost of operation, maintenance, and
replacement of the wastewater works, debt service obligations, and user charge
rates. Based on such review, the city shall revise, when necessary, the
schedule of user charge rates to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain an equitable distribution of operation, maintenance, and
replacement costs among users of the treatment system;
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenues to offset costs associated with the
proper operation and maintenance of the wastewater system and to meet debt
service requirements;
      (3)   Excessive strength and toxicity surcharges shall be reviewed at the
time of and in conjunction with the review of user charges. Surcharge rates
shall be revised where necessary to reflect current treatment and monitoring
costs.
      (4)   Each user shall be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with
a regular bill of the rate to be charged for the next year.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.85 BILLING.
   (A)   The rates or charges as set forth in this Chapter 52 shall be billed
on or about the first day of each month. All bills for such service shall be
due and payable when rendered. If not paid by the seventeenth of the month
following the date rendered, the bill shall be delinquent, and a delay penalty
equal to 10% of the face amount of the bill shall become due and payable;
provided, however, that if the seventeenth day should fall upon a Saturday, a
Sunday, or a legal holiday, then the face amount of the bill may be paid on the
next secular day which is not a holiday. After the bill becomes delinquent, the
city will mail a Notice of Termination of Service which will provide those
services will be terminated if the bill is not paid within ten days of the date
of mailing. If the entire bill, together with the penalty of 10% thereof, shall
remain unpaid at 12:00 midnight on the 27th day of the month, service
connection to the premises shall be disconnected. If any such delinquent
customer shall, thereafter, desire reconnection, a charge in the sum of $75 is
fixed to cover the expense thereof, customer must pay for the city to reconnect
the line with the cost to customer calculated based upon the time and materials
required by the city as well as the cost of the meter, if necessary; and prior
to such reconnection, the customer shall be required to pay the delinquent
bill, the 10% penalty, and the charge for reconnection, and any unpaid deposit.
Whether or not any premises are disconnected because of the delinquency, the
City Attorney or any attorney duly authorized to act for it by the city, is
authorized and directed to enforce and collect the amount of any bills
remaining delinquent for 30 days after penalty is added (including the penalty,
interest of 6% from date the penalty is added, and court costs), by suit in any
court of competent jurisdiction. The city shall be entitled to its costs and
expenses, including reasonable attorney fees, in the event such a suit is
necessary.
   (B)   In the event of the return of any check in payment of monthly rates
and charges provided herein or in payment of meter deposits or connection
charges as provided below because of insufficient funds on deposit to cover the
check, there shall be an additional charge of $50.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
§ 52.86 CONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   A connection charge of $2,100 is established and shall be exacted for
connection to new sewers, and shall be payable in full before the connection is
made. This $2,100 will include the cost of the meter.
   (B)   The customer shall provide at their own expense all sewer lines within
their property lines. The customer submitting an application for sewer service
shall render payment for the connection charge at the time the application for
service is made.
   (C)   When a customer shall sign a written request for the removal or
relocation of any service or line, that customer shall be responsible for the
entire cost of such removal or relocation.
(Ord. 18-09-10-01, passed 9-10-18)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
74.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   General penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as
he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks. If these
temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the
City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go:” Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal: Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop:” Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way:” Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights: When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal any
commercial advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as
restricting any public department or public utility of the city in any
emergency or temporarily from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign
whose placing has been approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle
has been brought to a complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk
or its extension. On entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building
the operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway. The operator of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn
into an alley from the roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates divisions
(C) or (D) shall be subject to revocation of his or her operator’s license
under KRS 186.560.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
emergency vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
stop and remain stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provision of division (F) below shall apply to any driver
approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) above shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes,
with at least two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the approaching
vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regad to safety
and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of fire
fighting equipment enroute to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he disapproves the application, he
shall mail to the applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief;
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Cross reference:
Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both. (KRS 189.993(8))
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
   
72.13   Parking of trucks; unloading
Impounding
   
72.20   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.21   Required notice to owner
   
72.22   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park such
vehicle except in a case
of real emergency or in compliance with the provisions of this traffic code or
when directed by a police officer or traffic sign or signal at any time in the
following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02.
   (B)   On a sidewalk.
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway.
   (E)   Within an intersection or crosswalk.
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. This
does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during the performance of their official duties.
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign, or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway.
   (H)   On any controlled access highway.
   (I)   Within a highway tunnel.
   (J)   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant.
   (K)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
   (L)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5), (6)) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §
72.21 et seq.
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict
the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of
the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 through
71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespass
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee, or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.22.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner's
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B).
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 PARKING OF TRUCKS; UNLOADING.
   No truck or other motor vehicle which will or does materially obstruct the
view of traffic by the operator of another parked vehicle shall be parked at a
curb, but trucks while unloading may be parked lengthwise in the middle of the
street.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle- related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle's release.
§ 72.21 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority, or private person or
business for any reason or when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority, or by private person or business, or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority, or by private person or business, the police, other authority,
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the State
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 and within
ten business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify
the registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license
number, and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of
the vehicle, and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor
vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) is placed in a garage or other
storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the notice
provided in division(A) by certified mail to the registered owner at the
address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined
in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of recovery of, or taking
possession of the motor vehicle. This notice shall contain the information as
to the make, model, license number, and identification number of the vehicle,
the location of the vehicle, and the amount of reasonable charges due on the
vehicle. When the owner of the facility fails to provide notice as provided
herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall forfeit all storage fees
accrued after ten business days from the date of tow. This division (B) shall
not apply to a tow lot or storage facility owned or operated by the city.
§ 72.22 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles
who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928, shall have
a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in KRS
376.275(2), for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in accordance
with KRS 281.926 and 281.932, as long as it remains in his or her possession.
   (B)    If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and KRS 281.932 have not been paid, the
motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275(2), may be
sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lien holder have been notified
by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1) ten days prior
to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle
pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale
and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. This lien shall be subject to prior recorded
liens, unless released by any existing lien holder pursuant to division (C) of
this section.
   (C)   (1)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail
within the first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928.
      (2)   The notification, in addition to the requirements of 281.928, shall
include the make, model, license number, vehicle identification number, owner's
name and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the vehicle, and
state that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain a new title
free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (3)   If the certified letter required under this paragraph is not sent
within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then only ten days of
storage may be charged.
      (4)   The lien holder has the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable
or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle.
      (5)   If a lien holder does not exercise the right to take possession of
the motor vehicle under this division within 45 days of notification, the tow
company or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and
clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (6)   Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190 or in division (C)(5)
above.
   (D)   If there are no lien holders required to be notified under division
(C) above, and the owner does not exercise the right to take possession of the
motor vehicle under this section within 45 days of notification required under
KRS 281.928, the tow company or storage facility may obtain a new title under
KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1))
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he finds on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, he is authorized
to announce such prohibition, to become effective at a time specified by him.
After the effective time of such prohibition no person shall park any vehicle
or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a
fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00
a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city official has not
announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be
prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route
may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The prohibition of
parking announced by the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until he announces
the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in which the prohibition of
parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he is authorized to declare the termination of the
emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement. If such
announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be
repeated between those hours.
§ 72.37 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city shall
be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount not
less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1))
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
   Lights on vehicles, see § 70.06
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations for operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
CHAPTER 74: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
74.01   Definition
   
74.02   State law adopted by reference
   
74.03   Operation of golf carts
   
74.04   Operation requirements
   
74.05   Application of traffic regulations
   
74.06   Motor vehicle requirement exemptions
   
74.07   Exempted golf carts
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 DEFINITION.
   For this purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. Any self-propelled vehicle that:
      (1)   Is designed for either the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising
the play of golf, or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
      (2)   Has a minimum of four wheels;
      (3)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than 35 miles per
hour;
      (4)   Is designed to carry not more than six persons including the
driver;
      (5)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
      (6)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of 1,200 pounds; and
      (7)   Meets the federal motor vehicle safety standards for low-speed
vehicles set forth in 49 CFR 571.500.
(Ord. 12-08-13-03, passed 9-10-12)
§ 74.02 STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority of Kentucky law and
is further subject to federal regulations. Adopted fully herein is KRS 189.286
and KRS 189.830, together with 49 CFR 571.500. These laws and federal
regulations are attached hereto as Appendix A of Ord. 12-08-13-03, consisting
of four pages.
   (B)   Further, it is hereby ordained that any amendments to either the state
law or federal regulations will be automatically incorporated in this chapter
without the necessity of formally amending same, except, however, a copy of any
such amendments shall be kept with the original ordinance.
(Ord. 12-08-13-03, passed 9-10-12)
§ 74.03 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   In compliance with the provisions of KRS 189.286 and any other applicable
statutes and this chapter, golf carts may be operated on all city streets
within the corporate city limits of the city, whose speed limits are 35 miles
per hour or less.
(Ord. 12-08-13-03, passed 9-10-12)
§ 74.04 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   In order to be operated on such designated city streets, a golf cart shall:
   (A)   Be inspected by a certified inspector designated by the Lyon County
Sheriff’s Office and certified through the Department of Vehicle Regulation to
ensure that the golf cart complies with the requirements of this section. The
inspection fee under this paragraph shall be $5 if done at the Sheriff’s Office
and shall be $15 if done elsewhere in the county.
   (B)   The Lyon County Sheriff’s Office will issue a sticker and/or permit as
evidence that the golf cart has passed inspection. This sticker-permit shall be
displayed on the golf cart windshield.
   (C)   Upon passing inspection, be issued a permit for the golf cart by the
city. The permit shall costs $25 and shall be renewed annually.
   (D)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the golf cart is
allowed to be operated on specific streets and roadways within the city.
   (E)   Display a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance with KRS 189.820.
   (F)   Be insured in compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator,
and the proof of insurance shall be inside the golf cart at all times of
operation on a public roadway.
   (G)   Be operated only between sunrise and sunset.
   (H)   Be operated by a person with a valid operator’s license in his or her
possession.
   (I)   Display a safety flag which extends not less than seven feet above
ground, be dayglow in color, be triangular in shape with an area of not less
than 30 square inches.
   (J)   Be outfitted with headlights and tail lights to be operated at all
times. Further, the golf cart shall have left and right turn signals.
(Ord. 12-08-13-03, passed 9-10-12)
§ 74.05 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Any person operating a golf cart on a public roadway under the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to the traffic regulations of KRS Chapter 189 and
any other applicable provisions of this code pertaining to the operation of
vehicles upon city streets.
(Ord. 12-08-13-03, passed 9-10-12)
§ 74.06 MOTOR VEHICLE REQUIREMENT EXEMPTIONS.
   A golf cart operating on a public roadway is not considered to be a motor
vehicle and is exempt from:
   (1)   Title requirements of KRS 186.030;
   (2)   Vehicle registration requirements of KRS 186.050; and
   (3)   Emissions compliance certificates pursuant to KRS 224.20-720.
(Ord. 12-08-13-03, passed 9-10-12)
§ 74.07 EXEMPTED GOLF CARTS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a golf cart that is not
used on a public roadway except to cross a roadway while following a golf cart
path on a golf course.
(Ord. 12-08-13-03, passed 9-10-12)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
of a first offense, be fined not less than $50 not more than $100. Any person
convicted of a subsequent violation of this chapter, within five years of a
prior conviction under this chapter, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more
than $200. Upon an individual’s third conviction of an offense hereunder, the
individual’s permit shall be revoked for three years in addition to any fine.
Failure to pay any fine within 30 days due to a violation of this chapter shall
result in suspension of permit.
(Ord. 12-08-13-03, passed 9-10-12)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Restraining animals
   
90.03   Unlawful for person having custody of animal to allow animal to commit
nuisance
   
90.04   Animal waste disposal
   
90.05   Cruelty to animals generally
   
90.06   Removal of dead animals
   
90.07   Endangering animals
   
90.08   Selling or giving away certain animals
   
90.09   Keeping of poultry and livestock
   
90.10   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.11   Riding horses
   
90.12   Exotic animals
   
90.13   Impoundment of dogs
Licenses, Permits, and Vaccinations
   
90.20   Permit for keeping dogs for business purposes
   
90.21   Permit for dog kennels
   
90.22   Premises inspections
   
90.23   Exemptions
Rabies Control
   
90.30   Rabies vaccination required
   
90.31   Enforcement
Dangerous Dogs
   
90.40   Registration
   
90.41   Exceptions
   
90.42   Requirements
   
90.43   Public safety and penalties
 
   
90.99   Penalty and enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Injury of animals; possession of firearms in Vista Ridge Park prohibited,
see
130.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Every domesticated and tame living creature, except members of the
human race.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The animal control officer shall refer to the Lyon
County Animal Control Officer or any individual designated by the animal
control officer.
   AT LARGE. Every instance in which an animal is found to be beyond the
custody and control of its owner or other person responsible therefore. A dog
is deemed to be AT LARGE when it is found off the premises of its owner or
other person responsible therefor and not under control by physical restraint
such as a leash, cord, or chain.
   ATTACK. The deliberate action of a dog, whether or not in response to a
command by a person, to bite, to seize with its teeth or to pursue any man,
animal or inanimate object, with the intent to destroy, kill, wound, injure or
otherwise harm the object of its action.
   BODILY HARM. Has the same meaning as physical injury as set forth in KRS
500.080(16).
   CAT. Any domestic feline animal, male or female, sexed or neutered.
   CONFINED. The animal is restricted to the property of the owner by leash,
cord, chain, wall, or fence barrier.
   DANGEROUS. A dog determined to be a DANGEROUS dog under this subchapter.
   DOG. Any domestic canine animal, male or female, sexed or neutered.
   DOG POUND. The animal control center designated by the animal control
officer to receive animals.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Includes, but is not limited to, any animals referenced in
KRS 65.877 or any other wildlife that has been identified by the Kentucky
Department of Fish and Wildlife as inherently dangerous to human health and
safety.
   NUISANCE. Any act, conduct or circumstance, which is injurious to health, or
indecent and offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of
property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property
of others. A NUISANCE shall include, but not be limited to, any person to keep,
harbor or own any animal or poultry which by loud or frequent habitual barking,
yelping, braying or other noise causes annoyance to the neighborhood or to any
persons in the vicinity.
   OWNER. Any person keeping, harboring, or having charge or control of, or
permitting any animal habitually to be or remain on, or be lodged or fed
within, such person's house, yard or premises, excluding therefrom
veterinarians or kennel operators temporarily maintaining on their premises,
for a period of 30 days or less, animals owned by others.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE OF A DANGEROUS DOG. The secure confinement of a dangerous
or vicious dog either indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or
structure, suitable to prevent the entry of children and designed to prevent
the animal from escaping. Such pen or structure shall have secure sides and a
secure top and shall also provide protection from the elements for the dog. If
the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be
embedded at least two feet into the ground.
   TORTURE or CRUELTY. Every act or omission or commission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
   VETERINARIAN. A member of the profession of veterinary medicine as described
in the State of Kentucky Veterinary Practice, KRS 321.175 et seq., or as
defined by the applicable Veterinary Practice Act in any state of the United
States and licensed to practice in the State of Kentucky.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed --)
§ 90.02 RESTRAINING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Every person who is the owner of or has the care, custody or control
of any animal permitted by this chapter, has an absolute duty to keep the same
upon the premises under the control of such person, restrained by a fence,
cage, coop, chain, leash or other adequate means so that the animal shall not
leave the premises upon which it is kept.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner or person having custody of any animal to
allow the animal to be in a public park or other public property unless the
animal is on a leash. No leash shall be more than ten feet in length. This
provision shall not apply to special areas that may be designated by the City
Clerk for training programs or purposes under direct obedience command.
   (C)   It is unlawful for the owner or person having custody of any animal to
permit the animal to be at large within the city.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed --) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 UNLAWFUL FOR PERSON HAVING CUSTODY OF ANIMAL TO ALLOW ANIMAL TO COMMIT
NUISANCE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner or person having the care, custody or
control of any animal to permit, either willfully or through failure to
exercise due care or control, any such animal to commit any nuisance upon any
public property or any other property under the control of or in the possession
of any other person, whether or not open to the public.
   (B)   No person shall keep any animal unless its area is kept clean and free
from offensive odors, animal wastes, and nuisance matter. Further, it is
unlawful for any person to overcrowd in any crate, box or other receptacle, or
fail to provide food, water, shelter or sanitation for same of any allowed
animals.
   (C)   The nuisance procedures set forth fully in
Chapter 92 shall apply to any alleged nuisance under this chapter.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed --) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 ANIMAL WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having control or
custody of any animal to permit the animal to defecate upon the public property
of the city or upon the private property of another unless the person
immediately removes the feces and property disposes of it; provided, however,
that nothing herein contained authorizes such person to enter upon the private
property of another without permission.
   (B)   Handicapped persons who use seeing-eye dogs are exempt from this
section. Persons whose dogs are participating in dog shows or direct command
obedience classes are exempt from this section while their animals are actually
participating in such shows or classes, but all feces must be removed and
disposed of immediately upon the conclusion of the show or class.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed --) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS GENERALLY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to overdrive, overload, torture or
cruelly beat, or unjustifiably injure, maim, mutilate or kill any animal
whether belonging to himself or herself or to another, or deprive any animal of
necessary sustenance, food, drink or adequate shelter, or willfully instigate,
engage in, or in any way further an act of cruelty to any animal, or any act to
produce such cruelty.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously shoot, poison,
kill, injure, abuse or ill-treat any animal, and any person who kills or
injures a domestic animal while driving a vehicle shall stop at the scene of
the accident and shall immediately report the incident to the appropriate law
enforcement agency.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to administer unjustifiably any
poisonous drug or substance to any animal, or to expose unjustifiably any such
drug or substance with intent that the same shall be taken by an animal,
whether such animal be the property of himself or herself or another; provided,
that nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent or restrict the
animal regulation officer, or County District Health Officer or a licensed
veterinarian in the exercise and performance of the powers and duties in this
chapter set forth.
   (D)   It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to abandon the animal.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to dye, color or artificially treat any
baby chick, rabbit, duckling, fowl or other similar animal which the owner does
not intend to keep.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed --) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person having charge of any animal which may die, to
neglect or refuse to remove, or cause to be removed, such dead animal to the
county landfill or dump, and to provide for the disposal of the same in the
manner provided by law within 24 hours after having notice of the death of such
animal.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed --) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 ENDANGERING ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully throw, drop or place, or cause to
be thrown, dropped or placed upon any road, highway, street, alley or public
place, or upon the private property of another, any glass, nails, pieces of
metal or other substance or device which might wound, disable or injure any
animal, or to drop, place, or throw or cause to be dropped, placed or thrown
any substance or device upon his or her own property with intent to wound,
disable or injure any animal.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed --) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 SELLING OR GIVING AWAY CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale, gift, barter, or
give away (including with any advertising campaign or promotion), any live
animal, reptile, bird or fish of any description whatsoever as pets or
novelties. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the display or sale
of natural chicks, rabbits, ducklings or other fowl, in proper breeder
facilities by hatcheries or stores engaged in the business of selling the same
to be raised for commercial purposes.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed --) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 KEEPING OF POULTRY AND LIVESTOCK.
   To the extent not otherwise allowed by the city’s planning and zoning
ordinances, it shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any
livestock or fowl including, but not limited to any goat, chicken, peacock,
guinea, horse, cow, sheep, mule, hog, or like animal within the corporate
limits of the city and the keeping of same shall constitute a nuisance to
adjacent properties. The Mayor, with City Council ratification, may approve or
disapprove any animal in question, including any not specifically listed above.
A written request must be submitted to the Mayor in initiate the process to
request consideration for an unapproved animal. The Mayor shall then take the
decision before the City Council at the next meeting.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed --) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
law may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal found
abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be injured,
diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal, the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two citizens called by him or her to view
the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the destruction
from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or
his or her agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be
abandoned and may be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal
shelter or disposed of as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with any peace
officer, animal control officer, or agent in the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed --) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 RIDING HORSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, drive or lead any horse, mule
or other animal of similar kind upon any sidewalk in the city, except at
regular crossings, or to suffer any horse or other animal to stand thereon.
Additionally, it is unlawful for any person to ride or drive a horse while
under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed --) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   Prohibition. The keeping, holding, displaying, or possessing of any
exotic animal as defined by KRS 65.877, or any other wildlife that has been
identified by the Kentucky Department of Fish and Wildlife as inherently
dangerous to human health and safety, in the city is prohibited and declared to
be unlawful. Any exotic animal kept in violation of this chapter shall be
subject to the impoundment provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Exception. This section shall not apply to any zoological garden
accredited by the American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums,
appropriately licensed theatrical exhibits, carnivals or circuses, any
authorized wildlife rehabilitator or licensed veterinary hospital for purposes
of treating injured animals, or any federally-licensed research institution.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed --) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS.
   Every dog found running at large in violation of any section of this
chapter, shall be impounded by an animal control officer at the county's dog
pound and there kept for a period of not less than five days unless reclaimed
by owner(s). Any fines, fees, or redemption procedures for the keeping and
subsequent release of any animal impounded shall be set and controlled by Lyon
County Animal Control Officer.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed --) Penalty, see §
90.99
LICENSES, PERMITS AND VACCINATIONS
§ 90.20 PERMIT FOR KEEPING DOGS FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
   No person shall carry on the business of keeping dogs for breeding purposes,
or for the purpose of medical treatment of such dogs, or of caring for hire, or
grooming in a residential zone in the city, and any permit for same shall be
refused. All such permits shall at all times be subject to the planning and
zoning regulations of the city. Licensed veterinarians are exempt from this
section.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed --) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 PERMIT FOR DOG KENNELS.
   Every person owning, operating or maintaining a dog kennel within and under
the jurisdiction of the city, must first apply for and obtain a permit from the
city to keep and maintain the dog kennel. A DOG KENNEL, for purposes of this
subchapter, shall be a pack or collection of dogs, exceeding four in number
over the age of four months, kept or bred for sale or boarding, but shall not
mean merely the house or place where the same are kept. The issuance of any
permit therefore shall at all times be subject to planning and zoning
regulations of the city; provided, however, that this section shall not apply
to quarters maintained by political entities for the purpose of using animals
in law enforcement, or to quarters maintained by veterinarians for the purpose
of surveillance or treatment of dogs on a temporary basis.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed --) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 PREMISES INSPECTIONS.
   Every person required to obtain a permit under the provisions of this
subchapter must permit his or her premises to be inspected, with his or her
consent, by an animal control officer or the County District Health Officer at
reasonable times.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed --) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to dogs under the age of
four months if kept within a sufficient enclosure, nor to dogs held by or in
the custody or in the control of persons who are nonresidents of the city and
temporarily sojourning therein for a period not to exceed 30 days, nor to dogs
brought to the city assumably for the purpose of entering the same in any dog
show or exhibition and which are actually entered in and kept at such show or
exhibition, provided that it is unlawful for any such unlicensed dog to be
permitted to run at large in the city.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed --) Penalty, see §
90.99
RABIES CONTROL
§ 90.30 RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   As required under KRS 258.015, every dog, cat, or ferret four months of age
and older shall be vaccinated against rabies. These animals must be
revaccinated at the expiration of the immunization period. Unvaccinated dogs,
cats, or ferrets acquired or moved in the city must be vaccinated within 30
days after purchase or arrival, unless under four months of age, as specified
above. Any animal reclaimed or adopted from the animal shelter must have a
valid rabies vaccination.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31 ENFORCEMENT.
   To enforce the provisions of this subchapter, authority for the control of
rabies shall be delegated to the animal control officer.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed - -)
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.40 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   In accordance with KRS 258.238, Any person who has been attacked by a
dog, or anyone on behalf of such person, a person whose animal has been killed
or injured without provocation, or any police officer or animal control officer
may make a complaint before a district judge or the County Attorney, charging
the owner or a person having the care, custody or control of such a dog with
harboring a dangerous dog. The district judge shall make a report of a
determination under division above to the Sheriff’s Department.
   (B)   Certificate required. It is unlawful for an owner to have a dangerous
dog without a certificate of registration issued under this subchapter. Failure
to have a required certificate of registration is a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to dogs used by law enforcement officials
for police work, certified guide dogs for the blind, hearing dogs for the deaf
nor aid dogs for any handicapped person.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.42 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Enclosure and insurance. The animal control officer shall issue, upon
payment of all fees required under division (B) below, a certificate of
registration to the owner of such animal within 30 days of notification, in
writing, that the dog has been determined to be dangerous and that the owner
has presented sufficient evidence of:
      (1)   A proper enclosure pursuant to KRS 258.235(3). The dangerous dog
shall be permitted to leave the enclosure only to visit the veterinarian or to
be turned in to an animal shelter. The dog shall be muzzled if leaving the
enclosure for either of these purposes; and
      (2)   A surety bond in the amount of $100,000 issued by an insurer
authorized to do business in the State of Kentucky, payable to any person(s)
injured by the dangerous dog; or
      (3)   A policy of liability insurance, such as homeowner's insurance,
issued by an insurer authorized to do business in the State of Kentucky in the
amount of at least $100,000, insuring the owner for any personal injuries
inflicted by the dangerous dog. The policy shall contain a provision requiring
the city to be named as an additional insured for the sole purpose of being
notified by the insurance company providing coverage of cancellation,
termination or expiration of the liability insurance policy.
   (B)   Fee. The registration fee for a dangerous dog certificate shall be
$500. This registration fee shall be in addition to any other fees collectable
under this subchapter.
   (C)   Other requirements. The owner shall sign a statement attesting that:
      (1)   The owner shall maintain and not voluntarily cancel the liability
insurance or surety bond required herein during the period for which licensing
is sought unless the owner ceases to own the dangerous dog prior to the
expiration of the license; and
      (2)   The owner shall immediately notify the animal control officer or
the Lyon County Sheriff’s Department once the owner has knowledge that the
dangerous dog is at large, is unconfined, has attacked another animal, has
attacked a human being, has died or has been sold or given away. If the
dangerous dog has been sold or given away, the owner shall provide the animal
control officer with the name, address and telephone number of the new owner of
the dangerous dog.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.43 PUBLIC SAFETY AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Failure to register and restrain. A dangerous dog shall be immediately
confiscated and impounded by any animal control officer or police officer or
sheriff upon the occurrence of any of the following:
      (1)   The dog is not validly registered under this subchapter;
      (2)   The owner does not secure and maintain the liability insurance
coverage or post the required bond under §
90.42;
      (3)   The dog is not maintained or confined in the proper enclosure; or
      (4)   The dog is outside of the dwelling of the owner or of the person
having the care, custody or control of the dog, or outside the proper enclosure
and not under the required physical restraint of the owner or of the person
having the care, custody or control of the dog. A violation of this section is
a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Attacks upon persons or animals. If a dangerous dog, through the
intentional, reckless or negligent conduct of the dog's owner or of the person
having the care, custody or control of the dog, attacks a person or attacks
another animal, said person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. In addition, the
dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated and impounded, placed in
quarantine for the proper length of time and, thereafter, be destroyed in an
expeditious and humane manner, with the costs of quarantine and destruction to
be borne by the dog's owner.
   (C)   Mandatory reporting. All known incidents of dog attacks in the city,
shall be reported to the animal control officer, who shall investigate each
incident and take the appropriate steps if a dog has been determined to be
dangerous.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter may be enforced by the animal control
officer, or Lyon County Sheriff’s Department as a misdemeanor through District
Court unless a stronger penalty is allowed by the KRS.
   (B)   As an alternative to enforcement through District Court, any violation
of this chapter shall constitute a civil offense pursuant to KRS 65.8808(1)
unless otherwise prohibited by KRS 65.8808(3) and enforced by Mayor with the
amount of the penalties being as follows:
 
Violation                                                       Amount
§                                                              $100
90.02 Restraining animals
§                                                              $150
90.03 Allowing animal to commit nuisance
§                                                              $500
90.05 Cruelty to animals generally
§                                                              $100
90.09 Keeping of poultry and livestock
§                                                              $100
90.30 Vaccination
Any offense of the chapter not otherwise specifically addressed $100
 
   (C)   Each day during which a stationary violation continues, except in
cases in which a given time has been allowed for corrective action to be taken,
shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 08-12-24-05, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public hearing required
   
91.16   Notice requirements
   
91.17   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.18   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the legislative body, giving the exact location of the
proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and
such other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after
a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with
the authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory
refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the legislative body for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the legislative body shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall for the faithful performance of the work. The Mayor, if authorized by
City Council, may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
moneys for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.17 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 91.18 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.19 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused disasters
nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100 (5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 91.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, a
reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after the abatement
of any storm during which the snow and ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Prohibited noise offenses
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Enforcement officer
   
92.07   Issuance of written notice of deficiencies
   
92.08   Suspension of business license
   
92.09   Failure of owner to comply with the written notice
   
92.10   Hearing
   
92.11   Determination by the City Council
   
92.12   Right to appeal to District Court
   
92.13   Fine schedule
   
92.14   Lien: fines, charges, abatement costs, fees, penalties, attorney fees
and costs
   
92.15   Lienholder notification system and liens
   
92.16   Costs and expenses of cure
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 - 411.570
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NUISANCE. Public nuisance. See §
92.03.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
(Ord. 08-12-24-08, passed 8-19-24)
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
(Ord. 08-12-24-08, passed 8-19-24)
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon. The following conditions, in addition to those offenses which are
known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as public nuisances, are
declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause harm, damage, or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or by the falling of parts thereof.
   (B)   Accumulation of waste. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another.
   (C)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which creates
a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
   (D)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of 12 inches or more.
   (E)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (F)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage. The
growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interferes with
the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes injury to
streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage.
   (G)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal's pen, yard, lot, or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors.
   (H)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in an
inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile parts,
abandoned appliances or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises
authorized by the city for such purposes.
(Ord. 08-12-24-08, passed 8-19-24)
§ 92.04 PROHIBITED NOISE OFFENSES.
   (A)   General prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to make or
cause to be made any loud or unreasonable noise as defined in this section.
Unreasonable noise disturbs, injures or endangers the peace or health of
another or the health, safety, or welfare of the community. Such noise
constitutes the disturbance of the peace and a public nuisance. Loud and
unreasonable noise, for the purpose of this section, is defined as noise that
is plainly audible to a reasonable person of normal sensitivities using his or
her unaided hearing faculties as such times and distances proscribed below. To
be plainly audible does not require the listener to be able to determine
specific characteristics of the noise (e.g., the words of a song being played),
but only that the listener hears the noise.
   (B)   Express prohibitions. The following acts are noise disturbances:
      (1)   Radios, television sets, musical instruments, phonographs, and
similar devices, including motor vehicle sound equipment. The operation or
permitting the use or operation of any musical instrument, radio, television,
phonograph, or other device for the production or reproduction of sound in such
a manner as to be plainly audible:
         (a)   From the source of the noise through the walls separating any
occupied unit within the same building;
         (b)   From the source of the noise to within a occupied building
located on another property than that from which the noise emanates;
         (c)   From the source of the noise within the right-of-way to within
an occupied building; or
         (d)   From the source of the noise a distance of 50 feet or greater.
      (2)   Parties and other social events. In the event the source of the
proscribed noise is a private party or social event, the responsible person for
the offense shall be any or all of the following:
         (a)   The owner of the premises;
         (b)   The occupant of the premises; or
         (c)   The person authorized to make use of the premises for such
event.
      (3)   Machinery and construction noise. Machinery and construction noise
that is plainly audible at any distance, but reasonable to the nature of the
work performed is not prohibited under this section from the hours of 7:00 a.m.
to 9:00 p.m. Such noise that is plainly audible from the source of the noise a
distance of 50 feet is prohibited between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Excepted from this prohibition is works necessitated by an emergency. The
determination of whether or not an emergency exists for the purpose of this
section shall be made by the Mayor, Lyon County Sheriff, or ranking law
enforcement officer on duty at the time of the emergency.
      (4)   Loudspeakers utilized for commercial purposes. Noise from
loudspeakers used for commercial purposes and used in the ordinary course of
business, i.e., live music at commercial establishment, ice cream truck, or
auction that is plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet is not prohibited
under this section from the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 10:30 p.m.
      (5)   Noise not otherwise prohibited (in specific provisions above).
Noise from any other source, including, but not limited to, barking dogs,
animal noises of any kind, car engines, human voices and fire works, which are
plainly audible:
         (a)   From the source of the noise through the walls separating any
occupied unit within the same building;
         (b)   From the source of the noise to within a occupied building
located on another property than that from which the noise emanates;
         (c)   From the source of the noise within the right-of-way to within
an occupied building; or
         (d)   From the source of the noise a distance of 50 feet or greater.
   (C)   Exemptions. Noise from the following sources is exempt from the
prohibition specified above:
      (1)   Governmental activities. Governmental vehicles and equipment while
in use for municipal purposes, including, but not limited to, safety signals,
warning devices, snow removal, public events, law enforcement, emergency
construction or repair work. Events conducted by or permitted by the city must
comply with all conditions of such permits with respect to noise control
issues;
      (2)   Special events. Special events permitted by the appropriate agency;
and
      (3)   Essential activities. Activities for which an exemption has been
obtained from the office of the Mayor, which exemptions shall be issued only
for those activities for which there is a substantial need and the
effectiveness of which would be significantly reduced or eliminated by the
enforcement of this prohibition. Exemptions under this section shall issue for
only that period during which the need for the activity can be demonstrated.
   (D)   Enforcement of section.
      (1)   Authority to enforce this section is given to the Sheriff's
Department and the Code Enforcement Officers (as defined in §
92.06).
      (2)   The penalty for violation of this section is as follows:
         (a)   First offense. For the first offense a fine of $100;
         (b)   Second offense. For the second offense within 12 months of the
initial offense, a fine of $200;
         (c)   Third and subsequent offenses. For the third and subsequent
offenses within 12 months of the prior offense, a fine of $500.
      (3)   Payment of fines; penalty for nonpayment.
         (a)   Within seven days from the date of the issuance of the citation,
any person cited pursuant to this section shall:
            1.   Pay to the city the civil penalty prescribed; or
            2.   Request a hearing regarding such citation and/or penalty
before the City Council.
         (b)   Failure to pay the citation or request a hearing within the
required seven days shall result in the entry of a final order determining:
            1.   The person cited to have waived his or her right to a hearing;
            2.   The citation and fine to be proper under this section; and
            3.   The assessment of an administrative fee in an amount equal to
the original citation fine.
      (4)   All fines shall be payable at Kuttawa City Hall.
(Ord. 08-12-24-08, passed 8-19-24)
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
(Ord. 08-12-24-08, passed 8-19-24)
§ 92.06 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Mayor, or any designee or appointee of the Mayor, is hereby appointed
and authorized as the enforcement officer under this chapter, whose purpose and
authority shall be to carry out and enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
enforcement officer shall have authority to inspect any property upon the
enforcement officer's finding of reasonable cause to believe that such property
is in violation of §§
92.02 -
92.05. The enforcement officer shall have the right to inspect the property at
all reasonable times and to perform any duty imposed upon the enforcement
officer by this chapter, provided that the enforcement officer shall first
provide notice and request entry from the owner of the property. The
enforcement officer shall attempt to make arrangements with the owner as to the
occurrence of the inspection at least 24 hours prior to the inspection. If such
entry is refused, the enforcement officer shall have all rights and remedies as
provided by law to secure entry including any application for a search warrant
or other authorization from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 08-12-24-08, passed 8-19-24)
§ 92.07 ISSUANCE OF WRITTEN NOTICE OF DEFICIENCIES.
   (A)   Whenever an enforcement officer shall determine that a property is in
noncompliance with the provisions of §§
92.02 -
92.05, the enforcement officer shall issue a written notice to the owner of
such property with regard to the deficiencies of the property. Such notice
shall set forth the following information:
      (1)   A specification of the real property upon which the nuisance is
located;
      (2)   A specification of the nuisance, which renders the property to be
in noncompliance with §§
92.02 -
92.05;
      (3)   A demand that the noted deficiencies be remedied within a
reasonable period of time, as determined by the enforcement officer in his
reasonable discretion, but in no event, not less than seven days following the
issuance of the notice;
      (4)   A notification to the owner that in the event the owner fails to
cure and remedy the deficiencies within the time period as determined by the
enforcement officer, the city will have the nuisance remedied at the owner's
cost; and
      (5)   A notification to the owner that the owner has the right to appeal
the determination made by the enforcement officer to the City Council by making
a written demand for a hearing before the City Council, and serving such
written demand upon the City Clerk within 30 days following the owner's receipt
of the written notice. The notification shall further provide that in the event
that the owner fails to make such written demand upon the City Council, the
owner shall have no further right to appeal the action taken by the enforcement
officer.
   (B)   The enforcement officer shall cause the written notice to be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the
owner of the property, as such address appears on the current tax assessment
roll. In the event an owner is a resident of the city, the enforcement officer
shall have the authority to personally serve such written notice upon the owner
in lieu of mailing such written notice. In the event of personal service upon
any owner, the enforcement officer shall make an affidavit evidencing such
personal service. This affidavit shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit law enforcement agencies from
enforcing the noise provisions of §
92.04 without first providing written notice.
(Ord. 08-12-24-08, passed 8-19-24)
§ 92.08 SUSPENSION OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City Council that a
nuisance exists upon the premises of a business, and the City Council deems
that there is an immediate threat to the public health, safety, or welfare, the
City Council may by majority vote suspend the license of any person conducting
business upon the premises where the nuisance exists.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee or at the premises where the nuisance exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee providing evidence that the nuisance
has been removed, the City Council may remove the suspension upon such terms as
it may direct.
(Ord. 08-12-24-08, passed 8-19-24)
§ 92.09 FAILURE OF OWNER TO COMPLY WITH THE WRITTEN NOTICE.
   In the event the owner shall fail to cure and remedy the nuisance in the
written notice within the time as set forth in such written notice, the
enforcement officer is authorized, empowered, and directed to remedy the
nuisance, provided that in the event the owner has made written demand for a
hearing before the City Council within the 30 day period any action of the
enforcement officer is stayed pending the outcome of the hearing before the
City Council.
(Ord. 08-12-24-08, passed 8-19-24)
§ 92.10 HEARING.
   In the event the owner of the property makes written demand for a hearing
before the City Council in the manner as provided in this chapter, the City
Council shall conduct a hearing with regard to the determination and directives
made by the enforcement officer in the written notice. The hearing shall be
conducted by the City Council within 60 days following the Clerk's receipt of
the written demand. This hearing shall be conducted during a regularly
scheduled council meeting. If there are no regularly scheduled Council meetings
to be held during the 60 day period, a special meeting may be called, so long
as notice is properly served upon the contesting party no less than five days
prior to the special meeting. As to such hearing, the following provisions
shall apply:
   (A)   The owner shall have the right to counsel;
   (B)   The owner shall have the right to give testimony on the owner's
behalf, to subpoena witnesses, to cross examine the enforcement officer and any
other witness, to offer proof in support of the owner's position, and to
otherwise enjoy all other rights and privileges guaranteed by law;
   (C)   The proceedings shall be recorded and transcribed; and
   (D)   The City Council shall have the right to have legal counsel present to
advise them throughout the proceedings.
(Ord. 08-12-24-08, passed 8-19-24)
§ 92.11 DETERMINATION BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
   At the culmination of the hearing, the City Council shall make a
determination with regard to the issues presented before the City Council. The
determination shall be by majority vote of the members of the City Council that
are present at said hearing. The City Council shall have the right to have its
legal counsel present during their deliberations. The City Council shall have
the right to affirm or deny the enforcement officer's determination and the
directives as set forth in such written notice, or make such other
modifications to such determination or directives as deemed appropriate by the
City Council. The City Council shall have the right to go into executive
session during their deliberations, provided that any final determination made
by the City Council be made in open session. The determination made by the City
Council shall be reduced to writing, reflect the date of the entry, and be
signed by the members of the City Council who voted in favor of such
determination.
(Ord. 08-12-24-08, passed 8-19-24)
§ 92.12 RIGHT TO APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT.
   Any owner who is aggrieved by the written determination made by the City
Council shall have the right to appeal such determination to the Lyon District
Court within 30 days following the entry of the City Council's determination.
(Ord. 08-12-24-08, passed 8-19-24)
§ 92.13 FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of this chapter shall be subject to the following schedule of
civil fines:
   (A)   Penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not
more than $500 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days or both, for each
offense. Each day that a violation continues after written notice has been
served shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Additional inspections. If a citation for a violation of the nuisance
code is not contested by the person charged with the violation, the penalties
set forth in this division may apply per inspection. If the Code Enforcement
Officer is required to make inspections beyond the initial inspection and one
additional follow-up inspection, to determine if the required corrections have
been made, then the Code Enforcement Officer shall assess the following fines
(which are in addition to the initial fine levied pursuant to §
92.13(A)) not to exceed the value of the property as determined by the Property
Valuation Administrator:
 
                                                                                3rd
                                                                                Inspection
Inspections                                                                     and All
                                                                                Subsequent
                                                                                Inspections
Abandoned vehicles and appliances, grass, weeds, dangerous trees, storage of
explosives, open wells, litter, waste, failure to keep an animal’s lot clean,
and other nuisances defined by §§                                             $100
92.02 and
92.03.
 
   (C)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the City Council is
required, the following maximum penalties (which are in addition to the initial
fine levied pursuant to §
92.13(A)) may be imposed at the discretion of the City Council per inspection
not to exceed the value of the property as recorded by the Property Valuation
Administrator:
 
Inspections          3rd Inspection 4th Inspection 5th Inspection and All
                                                   Subsequent Inspections
Property maintenance $250           $350           $500
 
   (D)   This fine schedule shall not apply to §
92.04, which contains its own penalty provisions.
(Ord. 08-12-24-08, passed 8-19-24)
§ 92.14 LIEN: FINES, CHARGES, ABATEMENT COSTS, FEES, PENALTIES, ATTORNEY FEES
AND COSTS.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on the property owned by the person
found by a non-appealable final order, or by a final judgment of the court, to
have committed a violation of the code for all fines assessed for the violation
and for all charges, costs, penalties, abatement costs, and fees, including
without limitation reasonable attorney's fees and a $30 administration fee,
incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the code. The lien
shall bear interest at the rate of eight percent (6%) per annum until paid. An
affidavit of the Code Enforcement Officer, filed with the City Clerk, shall
constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of
the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS 65.8840. Such sworn statement
shall also evidence the right of the city to assert a lien against such real
property in accordance with the provisions of KRS 381.770(5).
   (B)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A), the person found
to have committed the violation shall be personally liable for the amount of
all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges, costs, penalties,
abatement costs, and fees, including without limitation attorney's fees and a
$30 administration fee, incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement
of the code. The aforesaid amount shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per
annum until paid. The city may bring a civil action against the responsible
owner or owners and shall have the same remedies as provided for the recovery
of a debt.
   (C)   The city shall be entitled to recover from the responsible owner or
owners all attorney fees and others costs incurred by the city by reason of the
collection upon and enforcement of the responsible owner's or owners' liability
hereunder and the lien which secures the same.
   (D)   Upon payment, determination of the City Council or court order, the
city shall be authorized to release any lien filed hereunder and recorded in
the office of the County Clerk.
(Ord. 08-12-24-08, passed 8-19-24)
§ 92.15 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM AND LIENS.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, in
accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
or liens entered pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the code enforcement staff:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Contact person;
      (3)   Mailing address;
      (4)   Physical address;
      (5)   Phone number; and
      (6)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   A registrant may email the City Clerk to or pick up a paper form
available at City Hall to submit the information required. It shall be the
responsibility of the registrant to maintain and update the required contact
information with the city at least annually and to update as needed.
   (D)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
   (E)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to this section
may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of notification:
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the chapter,
including abatement costs.
   (F)   The lien provided by this chapter shall not take precedence over
previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of this chapter for
notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (E) of this section.
   (G)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
shall, if the final order remains partially unsatisfied, take precedence over
all other subsequent liens except liens for state, county, school board and
city taxes.
   (H)   The city may record a lien before the 45 day period established in
this section expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to the expiration of
the 45 day period, the city shall release the lien in the County Clerk's office
where the lien is recorded within 15 days of satisfaction.
   (I)   Failure of the city to comply or failure of a lien to take precedence
over previously filed liens as provided herein shall not limit or restrict any
other remedies the city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 08-12-24-08, passed 8-19-24)
§ 92.16 COSTS AND EXPENSES OF CURE OR DEMOLITION.
   The Enforcement Officer shall account for all costs and expenses for labor
and materials incurred by the city with regard to the remedying of the
nuisance. The accounting made by the Enforcement Officer shall be verified
under oath, and shall be filed with the City Clerk following the completion of
the remedy. Each owner of the property shall be jointly and severally liable to
the city for reimbursement of such costs and expenses, plus interest thereon at
the legal rate of 8% per annum.
(Ord. 08-12-24-08, passed 8-19-24)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
   
93.22   Open burning
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   The term FIREWORKS means any composition or device for the purpose of
producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or
detonation, and which meets the definition of “consumer” or “display” fireworks
as set forth in the U.S. Department of Transportation's (DOT) hazardous
materials regulations. FIREWORKS does not include:
      (1)   Exception number 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS means fireworks that are suitable for use by the
public, designed primarily to produce visible effects by combustion, and comply
with the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the
U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of
pyrotechnic contents of these devices are limited as enumerated in this
chapter. Some small devices designed to produce audible effects are included,
such as whistling devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of
explosive composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of
explosive composition. CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer
Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 CFR Parts 1500 and 1507, are classified
as Division 1.4G explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and
include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, stars, components producing reports containing up
to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term “mine” refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term “shell” refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A
mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The term “cake” refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-fourths inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake- like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as
the pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   The term DISPLAY FIREWORKS means pyrotechnic devices or large
fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible effects by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation. This term includes, but is not limited
to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130 milligrams) of explosive
composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of pyrotechnic
composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as consumer fireworks. Display fireworks defined by the Consumer
Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 CFR Parts 1500 and 1507, and are
classified as class B explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)   Items described in division (B)(1) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in divisions (B)(2), (B)(3), and (D) are not legal
for retail sale but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter
for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold
at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except for the following:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (3)   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
“competent display operator” shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A “competent display operator” is also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (A)(1) above shall be issued only to a
competent display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This competent display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days
in advance of the date of the display. After the privilege is granted, sales,
possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be lawful
for that purpose only. No permit granted under this division shall be
transferable. For the purposes of this section, “public display of fireworks”
shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials before a
proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this section. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this section.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit
as outlined in division (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present
the permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale, of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
non-profit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling
at retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks
as defined in §
93.01(B).
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B)(1) may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the requirements of this section are met.
   (B)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, non-profit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702 shall register annually with
the State Fire Marshal in accordance with KRS 227.715, and display its
registration certificate in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition).
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
(KRS 227.715(6) through (8)) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his agents, employees or
subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theatre, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “display”
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms. The State Fire Marshal shall provide the owner
or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any fireworks
seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is know to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks in not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) of this section shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within their
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting such permit may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   The open burning of garbage, household rubbish and other debris is
hereby banned effective with the final passage of this section.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable matter accumulated by a
family in a residence in the course of ordinary day to day living.
      (2)   HOUSEHOLD RUBBISH. Waste material and trash, not to include
garbage, normally accumulated by a family in a residence in the course of
ordinary day to day living.
      (3)   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter in such a manner that the
products of combustion resulting from the burning are emitted directly into the
outdoor atmosphere without passing through a stack or chimney.
      (4)   OTHER WASTE. Products and building materials.
   (C)   Leaves and limbs are not included in the above definitions and are
specifically exempted from this section, when done in accordance with all other
applicable laws and regulations.
(Ord. 94-5-2-2, passed 6-6-94) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.04, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both. (KRS 227.990(4))
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating §
93.22 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed $250. (Ord. 94-5-2-2, passed 6-6-94)
   (C)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
   
94.06   Litter in public places
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dump, deposit,
place or leave or cause to be dumped, deposited, placed or left in or adjacent
to any city park, street, public road or other public place, or in or within
the drainage area of Lake Clough any garbage, junk, refuse, trash, waste, dead
carcass or part thereof, or any other unsanitary material, object or thing of
any kind.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 95: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
95.01   Unsanitary health conditions
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 UNSANITARY HEALTH CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or permit any pig pen, stable,
toilet, privy or other property in his possession or under his control to
become or be in an unsanitary, offensive or unhealthful condition and thereby
cause material annoyance, discomfort or hurt to, or endanger the health of
other persons or the public generally, and each day such unsanitary, offensive
or unhealthful condition is permitted to exist or continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject to
a fine of not more than $500, or imprisonment for not to exceed 30 days, or
both such fine and imprisonment.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PAWNBROKERS
      
112.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
115.   VEHICLE DEALERS
      
116.   SHORT-TERM RENTAL PROPERTIES
      
117.   CANNABIS BUSINESS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
   [Reserved for future legislation]
CHAPTER 111: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Bond
   
111.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
111.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
111.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
111.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
111.07   Prohibited activities
   
111.08   Enforcement
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 111.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he will observe the provisions of this chapter and
all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 111.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. For all persons who
have left any property that has been pawned or sold, the register shall:
      (1)   Be reported to an online, Internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
      (2)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public; and
         (a)   A driver's license number;
         (b)   Another state or federally issued picture identification card;
or
         (c)   If the identification specified in divisions (2)(a) and (b)
above is not available, a Social Security number may be accepted;
      (3)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law enforcement
officer of the state when in the discharge of his or her official duty; and
      (4)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
division, FULL DESCRIPTION includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Make;
         (b)   Model;
         (c)   Color;
         (d)   Size;
         (e)   Manufacturer;
         (f)   Vintage; and
         (g)   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
   (B)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the merchandise
shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
   (C)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (D)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him,
whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report. The
report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports. (KRS 226.070)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
111.03(A) to be kept in his register. He shall not make any charge for the
ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker's register, notifying such person that, unless he
redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice, the
article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
111.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
111.03, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans. Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the purchased, give
that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the stipulated
resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker's clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $500, and his license may be forfeited to the city. (KRS
226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
111.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100. (KRS 226.990(3))
CHAPTER 112: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Imposition of license fee or tax
   
112.03   Amount of tax
   
112.04   Premiums not subject to tax
   
112.05   Due date of tax
   
112.06   Written breakdown of collections
   
112.07   Disposition of funds
   
112.08   Copy to Commissioner of Insurance
   
112.09   Effective date
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INSURANCE COMPANY. Any company authorized to transact insurance business in
the State of Kentucky in accordance with KRS Chapter 304. Insurance company
shall also include a surplus lines broker licensed in accordance with KRS
Chapter 304, subtitle 10.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A city, county, charter county, consolidated local
government, urban-county government, or unified local government that, by this
chapter, imposes a license fee or tax upon insurance premium receipts.
(Ord. 11-09-20-11, passed 12-15-20)
§ 112.02 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE OR TAX.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee or tax for
the privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the city limits
of Kuttawa, Kentucky.
(Ord. 11-09-20-11, passed 12-15-20)
§ 112.03 AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   The license fee or tax shall be applied to the amount of the premiums
actually collected within each calendar quarter upon the persons, business, or
property within the city limits of Kuttawa, Kentucky by reason of the issuance
of such policies on risks located within the city limits of Kuttawa, Kentucky.
The license fee or tax shall apply only to those classes of business which such
insurance company is authorized to transact, less all premiums returned to
policyholders.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
112.04, the license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance company with respect
to any insurance policy shall be as follows:
      (1)   Ten percent (10%) of the casualty premiums actually collected;
      (2)   Ten percent (10%) of inland marine premiums actually collected;
      (3)   Ten percent (10%) of fire and allied perils premiums actually
collected;
      (4)   Five percent (5%) of auto premiums actually collected; and
      (5)   Ten percent (10%) of all other premiums actually collected.
(Ord. 11-09-20-11, passed 12-15-20)
§ 112.04 PREMIUMS NOT SUBJECT TO TAX.
   No license fee or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall apply to the
following:
   (A)   Life insurance;
   (B)   Health insurance;
   (C)   Policies of group health insurance provided for state employees under
KRS 18A.225;
   (D)   Health insurance policies issued to individuals including policies
issued through Kentucky Access;
   (E)   Workers' compensation insurance;
   (F)   Annuities;
   (G)   Federal flood insurance;
   (H)   Municipal bonds, leases, or other debt instruments issued by or on
behalf of the City of Kuttawa unless the bonds, leases, or other debt
instruments are issued for profit or on behalf of for-profit or private
organizations;
   (I)   Policies of high deductible health plans as defined in 26 U.S.C. § 223
(c)(2), commonly referred to as Health Savings Accounts;
   (J)   Policies of insurance, insured or reinsured by the Federal Crop
Insurance Corporation, 7 C.F.R. § 400.352(b)(2);
   (K)   Policies insuring or naming the state or one of its agencies or
political subdivisions as an insured and surety bonds where the state or one of
its agencies or political subdivisions is the obligee. For the purposes of
local government premium tax payments, school districts are considered agencies
of the state and policies insuring school districts and bonds with school
districts as the obligee are exempt from local government premium taxes;
   (L)   Policies issued to public service companies which pay ad valorem
taxes;
   (M)   Entities issued a certificate of authority to do business in Kentucky
only as a health maintenance organization pursuant to KRS 304.38-060;
   (N)   Entities issued a certificate of authority to do business in Kentucky
as a captive insurer pursuant to KRS 304.49-010; or
   (O)   Domestic life insurance companies electing to be taxed under the
provisions of KRS 136.320.
(Ord. 11-09-20-11, passed 12-15-20)
§ 112.05 DUE DATE OF TAX.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. The payment shall be submitted to the
City of Kuttawa, together with Form LGT-141 (or a substantially similar form
prepared by the City of Kuttawa) on or before the due date. Any license fee or
tax not paid on or before the due date shall bear interest from the date due
until paid at the interest rate established annually by the Department of
Revenue for unpaid or underpaid taxes. This interest shall be paid to the local
government together with the license fee or tax that is due. In addition, the
insurance company shall pay to the local government a penalty in the amount of
10% on a license tax or fee not paid within 30 days after the due date.
(Ord. 11-09-20-11, passed 12-15-20)
§ 112.06 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   In accordance with KRS 91A.080(8), each insurance company subject to the
license fee or tax imposed by this chapter shall annually, by March 31, furnish
the local government a written breakdown of all collections in the preceding
calendar year for the following categories of insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine; and
   (D)   Fire and allied perils.
(Ord. 11-09-20-11, passed 12-15-20)
§ 112.07 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Collections made from casualty premiums, inland marine premiums, fire
and allied peril premiums, and other premiums license taxes shall be credited
to the Kuttawa Fire Department Fund for the purchase of apparatus, vehicles,
equipment, tools, personal protective equipment, as well as for training, the
construction of facilities and/or buildings, maintenance of facilities and/or
buildings, and furnishing of facilities and/or buildings for the Kuttawa Fire
Department;
   (B)   Collections made from auto premiums shall be credited to the Kuttawa
Street Department Fund for use of paving, road repair, signage, ditch
maintenance, sidewalk maintenance and repair, and any other maintenance and
upkeep of those facilities maintained by the Kuttawa Street Department;
(Ord. 11-09-20-11, passed 12-15-20)
§ 112.08 COPY TO COMMISSIONER OF INSURANCE.
   The local government shall transmit a copy of this chapter, and any
amendment(s) thereto, to the Kentucky Commissioner of Insurance at least 100
days prior to the effective date of the chapter.
(Ord. 11-09-20-11, passed 12-15-20)
§ 112.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective on the July 1, 2021.
(Ord. 11-09-20-11, passed 12-15-20)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   License tax on dance halls and restaurants
   
113.02   License tax on pinball machines or similar slot machines
   
113.03   Victrolas and nickelodeons; license tax; noise level regulated
Pool Rooms
   
113.15   License required; imposition of tax
   
113.16   Hours of operation; certain conduct prohibited
   
113.17   Location of pool room; clear view of interior
   
113.18   Minors to have written permission of parent to play
   
113.19   Inspection
   
113.20   Noncompliance; license null and void
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 LICENSE TAX ON DANCE HALLS AND RESTAURANTS.
   (A)   A license tax of $100 per year is hereby imposed on each dance hall
and on each restaurant, store or other place of business in the city where
dancing is suffered or permitted, whether or not a fee is charged.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall operate any dance hall, or suffer
or permit dancing in any store, restaurant or other place of business owned or
operated by him, her, them or it without first having paid the license tax and
obtained a license to do so. Each day the violation continues shall be a
separate offense.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
113.99
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see
Ch. 114
§ 113.02 LICENSE TAX ON PINBALL MACHINES OR SIMILAR SLOT MACHINES.
   (A)   A license tax of $10 per year is hereby imposed on each pinball or
similar slot machine (all gambling machines being specifically excluded
herefrom) kept or maintained for or suffered or permitted to be used by the
public.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall keep or maintain any pinball or
similar slot machine or suffer or permit the same to be used by the public in
the city without first having paid the license tax and obtained a license to do
so. Each machine so kept, and each day the violation continues shall be a
separate offense.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 VICTROLAS AND NICKELODEONS; LICENSE TAX; NOISE LEVEL REGULATED.
   (A)   A license tax of $10 per annum is hereby imposed on every person
(owner, proprietor or person in charge) who keeps or maintains in any
restaurant, café or other place of business, or in any private residence, for
use by the public any coin-operated nickelodeon, electric victrola or other
like or similar device.
   (B)   No person shall keep or maintain, and permit to be used by the public,
any machine or device as referred to in division (A) of this section without
first having paid the license tax. Each day such machine or device is kept or
maintained and permitted to be used in violation of this section shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   No person, who keeps or maintains any such machine or device, shall
suffer or permit
the same to be played louder than is reasonably necessary or proper or so as to
disturb the peace.
(Ord. passed - -40) Penalty, see §
113.99
POOL ROOMS
§ 113.15 LICENSE REQUIRED; IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   An annual license fee or tax of $10 is hereby imposed on each pool table,
where a fee is charged or collected, directly or indirectly. The license fee or
tax shall be paid in advance for the calendar year or pro rata part of the
calendar year in which tables are to be operated, all licenses shall expire
December 31 of each year, and no person shall operate a pool room or table
without having first obtained a license so to do. A license shall be granted
only to persons of good reputation.
(Ord. 2-4-46(B), passed 2-4-46) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.16 HOURS OF OPERATION; CERTAIN CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   No pool room shall open before 6:00 a.m., or be open after 10:00 p.m. on
week days or 11:00 p.m. on Saturdays, or at any time on Sundays; and no
gambling, betting, drinking, drunkenness, disorderly conduct or sales of
alcoholic or intoxicating liquors shall be permitted on the premises.
(Ord. 2-4-46(B), passed 2-4-46) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.17 LOCATION OF POOL ROOM; CLEAR VIEW OF INTERIOR.
   No pool room shall be operated at any place except in a building fronting on
Oak Street, in the business section, with a full, unobstructed and clear view
of the interior from Oak Street.
(Ord. 2-4-46(B), passed 2-4-46) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.18 MINORS TO HAVE WRITTEN PERMISSION OF PARENT TO PLAY.
   No minor shall be permitted to play on any table without the prior written
permission of the parent, guardian or custodian of the infant, which written
permission shall be available for inspection by officers at all times.
(Ord. 2-4-46(B), passed 2-4-46) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see KRS 436.320
§ 113.19 INSPECTION.
   The Chief of Police shall have the right to enter and inspect the pool room
at any time.
(Ord. 2-4-46(B), passed 2-4-46)
§ 113.20 NONCOMPLIANCE; LICENSE NULL AND VOID.
   Upon violation of any provision of this subchapter or of the Kentucky
Revised Statutes governing operation of pool tables, any license granted
hereunder shall become and be null and void, and the licensee shall be entitled
to no refund of any part of the fee or tax paid.
(Ord. 2-4-46(B), passed 2-4-46)
Statutory reference:
   State law governing places of entertainment, see KRS Ch. 231
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
more than $500 for each offense.
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   General provisions
   
114.03   City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
114.04   License
   
114.05   License application
   
114.06   Periodic information to be provided by licensee
   
114.07   License renewal
   
114.08   Regulatory license fee imposed
   
114.09   Additional restrictions on sale by licensee
   
114.10   Causes for refusal to issue or renew license and for suspension and
revocation of license
   
114.11   Revocation or suspension of license
   
114.12   Appeal
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote economic development and
tourism within the city by making provision for the sale of alcoholic beverages
by the drink at certain restaurants and dining facilities in a manner
consistent with the local option election heretofore conducted pursuant to
Chapter 242 of the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 01-3-5-4, passed 3-12-01)
§ 114.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control laws contained in KRS
Chapters 241, 242, 243 and 244, as amended by Senate Bill 13, pertaining to
licenses and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board,
including definitions contained therein, as well as amendments and supplements
thereto, are hereby adopted as part of the Alcoholic Beverage Control law of
the city, except as otherwise lawfully provided herein.
(Ord. 01-3-5-4, passed 3-12-01; Am. Ord. 13-11-12-05, passed 12-9-13)
§ 114.03 CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator (the "City
Administrator") shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of a majority
of the members of the City Council, and may be removed by the Mayor with or
without cause. No conflict of interest shall be deemed to arise if the
individual appointed as City Administrator is also employed by the city in some
other capacity.
   (B)   The City Administrator and his assistants and investigators shall have
the full police powers of peace officers, and their jurisdiction shall be
coextensive with the boundaries of the city. They, and any city law enforcement
officer, may inspect any premises where alcoholic or malt beverages are sold,
stored, or otherwise trafficked without first obtaining a search warrant.
   (C)   The City Administrator and his assistants and investigators are
authorized to examine and inspect, at any reasonable time, all books and
records required to be maintained by licensees under KRS 244.150. In addition
to the reports otherwise required by this chapter, the licensee shall submit to
the City Administrator a copy of all reports which the licensee is required or
elects to submit to or file with the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall have the same powers and duties with
respect to suspension and revocation for cause of city licenses as the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board has with respect to state licenses under KRS
241.060. The City Administrator, on his own initiative or on the complaint of
any person, may institute proceedings to revoke or suspend any license issued
under this chapter.
(Ord. 01-3-5-4, passed 3-12-01)
§ 114.04 LICENSE.
   (A)   No alcoholic beverages shall be sold in the city except as permitted
by the Kentucky Revised Statutes and except by a duly authorized licensee in
compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter.
   (B)   Restaurants and dining facilities shall be eligible for the license
for which provision is made herein if they comply with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   Such restaurants and dining facilities shall seat a minimum of 100
persons.
      (2)   Restaurants and dining facilities licensed under this chapter shall
have articulated and convincing reasons to anticipate that they will derive a
minimum of 70% of their gross receipts from the sale of food as certified by
periodic documentation.
(Ord. 01-3-5-4, passed 3-12-01)
§ 114.05 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Representatives of restaurants and dining facilities seeking the
license for which provision is made herein shall submit a completed application
to the City Administrator. The form provided may be the same form utilized by
the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission (ABC).
   (B)   Applicants for a license under this chapter shall pay a license fee of
$600.
   (C)   A verified statement of the applicant shall accompany the application,
containing the affirmation of the applicant that the applicant anticipates that
the gross receipts at the licensed premises through the sale of food shall be
equal to or greater than 70% of its total gross receipts.
   (D)   The applicant for a city license shall tender with its application a
consent document, which shall state:
      "The undersigned applicant hereby grants its irrevocable consent to the
City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, and his duly appointed agents,
to come upon and inspect and search the licensed premises at any reasonable
time."
(Ord. 01-3-5-4, passed 3-12-01; Am. Ord. 13-11-12-05, passed 12-9-13)
§ 114.06 PERIODIC INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED BY LICENSEE.
   (A)   Applicants to whom a license is issued authorizing the sale of
alcoholic beverages pursuant to this chapter shall provide periodic information
demonstrating compliance with the continuing requirement that 70% of the
applicant's gross income is earned from the sale of food. Such information
shall be provided on or before March 31 and on or before September 30 of each
year, and shall consist of a certificate from a certified public accountant
familiar with the applicant's pertinent business records, which shall state:
      "I have conducted a limited scope audit according to accepted accounting
principles of the pertinent records of,                                ,
licensee under Ordinance                   , and certify that the licensee
earned at least 70% of its gross receipts from the sale of food during the half
year ending (March 1 or September 1)."
   (B)   The certificate shall contain a brief description of the methodology
used in the determination of the certified percentage.
(Ord. 01-3-5-4, passed 3-12-01)
§ 114.07 LICENSE RENEWAL.
   The license issued pursuant to this chapter shall authorize the sale of
alcoholic beverages until the next following January 1. The license may be
renewed annually thereafter upon a showing that the criteria therefor have been
met, the filing and approval of a renewal application, and the payment of a
renewal fee of $600.
(Ord. 01-3-5-4, passed 3-12-01; Am. Ord. 13-11-12-05, passed 12-9-13)
§ 114.08 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   For the purpose of full reimbursement to the city of the cost of any
police, regulatory, legal, or administrative expenses related to the sale of
alcoholic beverages in a manner consistent with this chapter, a Regulatory
License Fee is imposed on the gross receipts from retail sales of alcoholic
beverages under each license issued pursuant to this chapter. The amount of
this fee shall be adjusted from time to time by ordinance so that the same
shall be reasonably estimated to insure full reimbursement to the city of the
police, regulatory, administrative, or legal expenses herein referred to. The
Regulatory License Fee shall be in addition to any other taxes, fees, or
licenses permitted by law.
   (B)   Until adjusted by ordinance as hereinbefore required, the Regulatory
License Fee shall be 5% of all sales of alcoholic beverages beginning January
1, 2001.
   (C)   Payment of the Regulatory License Fee shall accompany tax returns
approved for use by the City Administrator, submitted to the City Clerk by the
20th day of each month for the preceding month's sales. There shall be a
monthly credit of $50, representing the pro rata portion of the initial license
cost for which provision is made in this chapter.
   (D)   Failure to pay the monthly remittance within ten days after the due
date shall constitute a violation of this chapter, and in addition, shall
constitute grounds for an immediate 30 day suspension of the license for which
provision is made herein.
(Ord. 01-3-5-4, passed 3-12-01) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON SALE BY LICENSEE.
   At no time shall any licensee sell any alcoholic beverage when the licensee
does not have food available for sale, and in no event may any alcoholic
beverage be sold between the hours of 1:30 a.m. and 6:30 a.m., Monday through
Saturday, nor between the hours of 1:30 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 01-3-5-4, passed 3-12-01; Am. Ord. 13-06-11-03, passed 6-17-13) Penalty,
see §
114.99
§ 114.10 CAUSES FOR REFUSAL TO ISSUE OR RENEW LICENSE AND FOR SUSPENSION AND
REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Causes for the refusal to issue or renew a license or for the suspension or
revocation of a license shall be the same as provided for state licenses
according to KRS 243.450 and 243.500, and in addition thereto shall include the
following:
   (A)   The failure to obtain or retain a state license;
   (B)   The failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter regarding
gross receipts from the sale of food or the provisions of this chapter
regarding periodic certification from a certified public accountant;
   (C)   The failure to pay the Regulatory License Fee when due; and
   (D)   The failure to pay any fine for which provision is made herein.
(Ord. 01-3-5-4, passed 3-12-01)
§ 114.11 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF THE LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the occurrence of one or more of the causes for revocation and
suspension, the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator may, upon his own
initiative or upon complaint, give notice requiring the licensee to show cause
why a revocation or suspension should not occur and give notice of the time and
place of a hearing on possible revocation or suspension. Upon the licensee's
failure to show cause, such a suspension or revocation may be ordered by the
City Administrator. The licensee shall be afforded the right to:
      (1)   Reasonable notice of the charge;
      (2)   Representation;
      (3)   Presentation of such evidence and witnesses as in its discretion
are appropriate to the issues; and
      (4)   A finding reasonably supported by the evidence.
   (B)   The City Administrator may designate a city employee or other person
to act as a hearing officer to conduct the hearing for which provision is
hereinbefore made. In the event of such a designation, the Hearing Officer's
determination shall be in the form of a recommendation upon which the City
Administrator shall determine appropriate action.
(Ord. 01-3-5-4, passed 3-12-01)
§ 114.12 APPEAL.
   Appeals from determination of the City Administrator with respect to orders
of that officer, including denial of applications or orders suspending or
revoking the same, shall be addressed to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board in a manner consistent with KRS 241.200.
(Ord. 01-3-5-4, passed 3-12-01)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   The sale of alcoholic beverages within the city not in conformity with this
chapter shall constitute a violation, punishable by fine of up to $500 for each
offense, to be prosecuted as all other municipal ordinance violations are
prosecuted. Each day of each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 01-3-5-4, passed 3-12-01)
CHAPTER 115: VEHICLE DEALERS
Section
   
115.01   Temporary sales or displays
§ 115.01 TEMPORARY SALES OR DISPLAYS.
   (A)   The city shall authorize and permit licensed motor vehicle dealers to
conduct temporary sales and/or displays within the city limits of the city,
provided however, that any licensed dealer shall apply, in advance, for a
permit to do same from the city, for which a fee of $50 shall be paid to the
City Clerk prior to the issuance of the permit; that the sale or display shall
be advertised as temporary in nature; and that the sale or display consist of a
representative sampling of the inventory of each participating licensee.
   (B)   Each temporary sale or display shall not exceed 14 days duration.
(Ord. 04-07-21-04, passed 7-22-04)
CHAPTER 116: SHORT-TERM RENTAL PROPERTIES
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   General provisions
   
116.03   Short-term rental registration required
   
116.04   Responsible party
   
116.05   General requirements
   
116.06   Maximum occupancy
   
116.07   Minimum and maximum rental periods
   
116.08   Payment of taxes required
   
116.09   Complaints
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Kuttawa.
   CITY CLERK. The Kuttawa City Clerk or his or her designee.
   DWELLING UNIT. A detached single-family dwelling, attached single-family
dwelling, or single unit within a multiple-family dwelling.
   HOST. Any person who is the owner of record of residential real property who
offers a dwelling unit, or any portion thereof, for short-term rental.
   HOSTING PLATFORM. A website, mobile application, or other online platform
that generally allows an owner or tenant to advertise a dwelling unit and
provide a means for potential transient guests to arrange short-term rental and
payment.
   MAYOR. The duly-elected Mayor of the City of Kuttawa, Kentucky.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. A dwelling unit or any part thereof that is rented,
leased, or otherwise assigned, by a host through the use of a hosting platform,
to a transient guest for a duration of 30 consecutive days or less, unless an
exemption is sought by the host and is approved by the Kuttawa City Council.
This term does not include hotels, motels, extended stay lodging facilities, or
bed and breakfast inns.
   TRANSIENT GUEST. A person or persons who enters into a contractual
arrangement with a host whereby the person or persons pays rent to the host, or
to a person designated by the host to receive rent, including through a hosting
platform, in exchange for occupancy of a short-term rental for a duration of 30
consecutive days or less, unless an exemption is sought by the host and is
approved by the Kuttawa City Council.
(Ord. 12-13-16-21, passed - - )
§ 116.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effective July 1, 2022, no person shall rent, offer for rent, list on
any hosting platform, or receive rental income from any short-term rental
unless the host has first registered the short-term rental in accordance with
this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all short-term rentals as defined herein,
including those short-term rentals operated prior to the effective date.
   (C)   The provisions herein shall not apply to licensed hotels or motels,
bed and breakfast establishments, jails, convents, monasteries, or nursing
homes.
(Ord. 12-13-16-21, passed - - )
§ 116.03 SHORT-TERM RENTAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   All owners of real property that intend to utilize their property as a
short-term rental shall obtain a permit from the City Clerk. The owner shall
complete a registration form which shall, at a minimum, include the following:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number, e-mail address, social
security number (for individuals), EIN (for corporate entities), or any other
pertinent contact information necessary to provide access to the host;
      (2)   The name and contact information of a person residing within 50
miles or within a one-hour response time of the short-term rental that shall be
responsible for addressing any safety or maintenance concerns; and
      (3)   The physical address of the short-term rental, and unit number, if
applicable.
   (B)   Registrations shall be renewed annually on or before July 1 of each
year.
   (C)   In order to compensate the city for its costs in administering the
short-term rental registration program, all rental properties shall be subject
to an annual registration fee of $150, which shall be paid by the host to the
city with the host's registration form. New registrations obtained after August
1 of each year shall be prorated to $75 for the remainder of the year.
   (D)   Registration under this chapter is nontransferable. A new owner of a
short-term rental property shall file a new registration prior to offering the
property for short-term rental.
(Ord. 12-13-16-21, passed - - )
§ 116.04 RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
   The host shall be responsible for the short-term rental's compliance with
the city's Code of Ordinances, the city's Zoning Ordinance, all adopted
electrical, plumbing, building, and fire codes, and all other applicable laws
and regulations, including any applicable restrictive covenants.
(Ord. 12-13-16-21, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.05 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following general requirements shall apply to all short-term rentals
within the City of Kuttawa:
   (A)   Proof of a current insurance covering fire, hazards, and general
liability shall be presented annually to the City Clerk with the annual
registration. Liability insurance shall have limits of not less than
$1,000,000. This insurance coverage shall be continuous during periods of
short-term rental.
   (B)   Owners of real property who register their property for short-term
rental shall notify all adjoining property owners of the registration.
   (C)   All short-term rental occupants shall abide by all applicable noise,
nuisance, and waste restrictions of the city.
   (D)   The short-term rental unit shall have approved smoke alarms (which are
subject to inspection by local authorities at the time of application and any
renewals thereafter to ensure compliance with applicable fire codes) meeting
underwriters laboratory (UL) standards in the following locations:
      (1)   All sleeping rooms.
      (2)   Every room in the path of the means of egress from a sleeping area
to the main exit.
      (3)   Each story, including basements.
   (E)   No food shall be prepared or served by the owner or responsible party
to the transient guests.
   (F)   Contact information for the host shall be conspicuously posted within
the short-term rental unit. This shall include names and phone numbers that can
be reached 24 hours per day, seven days per week for the entire duration of the
rental period.
   (G)   Outdoor signage advertising short-term rentals shall not exceed nine
square feet.
   (H)   The principal renter of any short-term rental unit within the City of
Kuttawa shall be at least 21 years of age.
   (I)   There shall be a minimum of one parking space for each room offered at
each short-term rental within the City of Kuttawa.
   (J)   A clearly marked evacuation plan must be conspicuously posted on the
premises of each short-term rental unit within the City of Kuttawa.
   (K)   No portable buildings, recreational vehicles, boats stored on land, or
treehouses shall be utilized as short-term rental units within the City of
Kuttawa.
(Ord. 12-13-16-21, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.06 MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY.
   The maximum number of occupants permitted in any short-term rental at any
one time shall not exceed more than twice the number of sleeping rooms plus
four. The occupancy maximum shall be conspicuously posted within the unit.
Advertising a short-term rental for more occupants than allowed by this chapter
shall be grounds for revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 12-13-16-21, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM RENTAL PERIODS.
   No host shall rent his, her, or its short-term rental to a transient guest
for more than 30 consecutive days per calendar year unless an exemption is
sought by the host and is approved by the Kuttawa City Council. No short-term
rental shall be for a period of less than 24 hours.
(Ord. 12-13-16-21, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.08 PAYMENT OF TAXES REQUIRED.
   (A)   If applicable, all hosts shall obtain a city occupational license
prior to listing his, her, or its property for short-term rental.
2023 S-13
   (B)   If applicable, all hosts shall be responsible for payment of all
transient room taxes and occupational license taxes.
   (C)   All hosts are ultimately responsible for the remittance of applicable
taxes associated with short-term rentals within the City of Kuttawa, including
(but not limited to), sales tax.
(Ord. 12-13-16-21, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.09 COMPLAINTS.
   The following regulations shall apply to the administration of complaints
related to the short-term rental property:
   (A)   Upon the filing of three or more complaints within the same calendar
year regarding the short-term rental unit, the city shall notify the registrant
of such complaints.
   (B)   If the city determines that violations of this section or any other
ordinance or law relating to the short-term rental have occurred, the right of
operate the short-term rental may be revoked by the City Clerk. Before any
revocation action is taken, the City Clerk shall give the real property owner
15 days' written notice of the alleged violations and an opportunity to
respond.
   (C)   The real property owner may appeal the revocation of the short-term
rental registration to the Mayor. The Mayor shall reduce his or her decision to
writing.
(Ord. 12-13-16-21, passed - - )
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to a civil penalty of $100 per day for each day the property is in violation of
the chapter. Each day of violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   The city shall possess a lien on property for all civil fines,
penalties, charges, past-due amounts, fees, attorney fees, and all other
reasonable costs associated with enforcing this chapter, and the placing of a
lien on a parcel of real property pursuant to this code. The lien shall be
superior to and have priority over all other liens filed subsequently, except
state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (C)   Failure to register property and pay the registration fee in
accordance with this chapter, or revocation, suspension, or denial of said
registration license, may constitute grounds for denial of or revocation of any
and all other licenses and privileges to do business in the city, including,
but not limited to, the occupational license.
   (D)   The remedies and penalties provided herein are not to be deemed
exclusive. They shall be in addition to and do not supersede or preempt other
remedies such as condemnation, written violation orders and warnings,
citations, nuisance code violation remedies, etc. Further, the remedies herein
do not supersede or affect the legal rights and remedies provided under the law
to the tenants vis-à-vis the landlord in any short-term rental dwelling or unit
therein.
(Ord. 12-13-16-21, passed - - )
CHAPTER 117: CANNABIS BUSINESS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Cannabis business prohibited
   
117.03   Referendum vote
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABINET. The Cabinet for Health and Family Services;
   CANNABIS BUSINESS. An entity licensed under this chapter as a cultivator,
dispensary, processor, producer, or safety compliance facility;
   CULTIVATOR. An entity licensed as such under KRS 218B.080, 218B.085, and
218B.090;
   DISPENSARY. An entity licensed as such under KRS 218B.080, 218B.085, and
218B.090;
   MEDICINAL CANNABIS. Includes:
      (1)   Marijuana as defined in KRS 218A.010 when cultivated, harvested,
processed, produced, transported, dispensed, distributed, sold, possessed, or
used in accordance with this chapter;
      (2)   Medicinal cannabis products and raw plant material; and
      (3)   Does not include industrial hemp or industrial hemp products as
defined in KRS 260.850;
   PROCESSOR. An entity licensed as such under KRS 218B.080, 218B.085, and
218B.090;
   PRODUCER. An entity licensed as such under KRS 218B.080, 218B.085, and
218B.090;
   SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY. An entity licensed as such under KRS 218B.080,
218B.085, and 218B.090;
(Ord. 06-10-24-04, passed 7-8-24)
§ 117.02 CANNABIS BUSINESS PROHIBITED.
   All cannabis businesses are hereby prohibited from operating in the city
limits of Kuttawa.
(Ord. 06-10-24-04, passed 7-8-24)
§ 117.03 REFERENDUM VOTE.
   (A)   The city will enact a resolution directing the question of prohibiting
cannabis business operations from operating within its territory be submitted
to the voters at the next general election.
   (B)   If the question submitted to the voters passes, medical cannabis sales
and cannabis business operations may be conducted in the city, pursuant to KRS
218B.130(8)(a).
(Ord. 06-10-24-04, passed 7-8-24)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Public intoxication and consumption of alcohol
   
130.02   Injury of animals; possession of firearms in Vista Ridge Park
prohibited
   
130.03   Placing signs on trees prohibited
   
130.04   Bathing in Lake Clough prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 PUBLIC INTOXICATION AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL.
   (A)   Definition.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PLACE means a place to which
the public or a substantial group of persons has access and includes but is not
limited to highways, transportation facilities, schools, places of amusements,
parks, places of business, playgrounds and hallways, lobbies and other portions
of apartment houses and hotels not constituting rooms or apartments designed
for actual residence. An act is deemed to occur in a public place if it
produces its offensive or proscribed consequences in a public place. (KRS
525.010)
      (2)   For violations of division (C), PUBLIC PLACE shall not include any
public place where a license under state law to sell distilled spirits, wine or
beer by the drink has been obtained. (KRS 222.201)
   (B)   A person is guilty of public intoxication when he appears in a public
place manifestly under the influence of alcohol or other controlled or
intoxicating substance, not therapeutically administered, to the degree that he
may endanger himself or other persons or property, or unreasonably annoy
persons in his vicinity. (KRS 222.202(1), 525.100(1))
   (C)   A person is guilty of drinking alcoholic beverages in a public place
when he drinks an alcoholic beverage in a public place, or in or upon any
passenger coach, or other vehicle commonly used for the transportation of
passengers, or in or about any depot, platform, or waiting room. (KRS 222.202)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 INJURY OF ANIMALS; POSSESSION OF FIREARMS IN VISTA RIDGE PARK
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to catch, kill, injure or pursue
with such intent, any wild bird, squirrel or other game, within the limits of
Vista Ridge Park.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot or discharge any gun,
pistol or other firearm within the limits of Vista Ridge Park.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or cross Vista Ridge Park
with any gun, pistol or other fire arm in his possession.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 PLACING SIGNS ON TREES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or place any nail, tack or
screw in, or to place any sign, card, notice, advertisement or bill on, or in
anyway to cut, saw, deface, damage or injure any tree in any street or other
public place in the city.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 BATHING IN LAKE CLOUGH PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bathe in Lake Clough.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, a person guilty of
violating §
130.01 shall, for a first or second offense be fined not less than $25. For a
third or subsequent offense within a 12 month period, the person shall be fined
not less than $25 nor more than $100, or be imprisoned in the county jail for
not less than five nor more than 90 days, or both. In addition to any other
penalty, the court may sentence the person to an alcohol or substance abuse
treatment or education program subject to the terms of KRS 222.990(5). (KRS
222.990(3) - (5))
   (C)   A person guilty of public intoxication by reason of a controlled or
other intoxicating substance, excluding alcohol, shall be fined not more than
$250 or imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
Statutory reference:
   Public intoxication by other than alcohol a Class B misdemeanor, KRS 525.100
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PLANNING
      
152.   ZONING CODE
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code and Standards of Safety;
enforcement agents
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Appeals
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY;
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Chapter 7, Title 815 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as
contained in Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations;
the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as contained in Chapter 10, Title 815 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations, together with any amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances. Copies
of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall be placed on file in the
office of the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (B)   The appropriate enforcement agent shall be designated as the local
enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code.
   (C)   The Chief of the Fire Department and all other designated officers,
agents, and employees of the city are hereby charged with the enforcement of
the provisions of the Standards of Safety.
   (D)   Residential Code.
      (1)   Certain documents, three copies of which are on file in the office
of the City Clerk and the city, being marked and designated as International
Residential Code, including Appendix chapters, as published by the
International Code Council and is hereby adopted as the code of the city for
regulating the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses not more
than three stories; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions
and terms of the Kentucky Residential Code, 2007 edition, published by the
International Code Council on file in the office of the City of Kuttawa are
hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
section.
      (2)   The following sections are hereby revised:
         (a)   Section R101.1: City of Kuttawa.
         (b)   Section R301.2(1): 15, D0.
(Ord. 9-3-63-1, passed 9-3-63; Am. Ord. 09-06-08-03, passed 6-17-09; Am. Ord.
09-11-09-08, passed 12-14-09)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code shall be extended to all single-
family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
§ 150.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B, is
established to hear such appeals.
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
   (A)   Violators of the Uniform State Building Code or the Uniform State
Residential Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $1000 for each offense. (KRS 198B.990(1))
   (B)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1000, imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense. (KRS 227.990(1))
   (C)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense. (KRS 318.990)
CHAPTER 151: PLANNING
Section
Joint Planning Commission
   
151.01   Establishment
   
151.02   Membership
   
151.03   Officers and staff
   
151.04   Meetings
   
151.05   Bylaws
   
151.06   Powers and duties
JOINT PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 151.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   This Commission shall be known as the Eddyville-Kuttawa-Lyon County Joint
Planning Commission. Upon the appointment and subsequent approval of members,
election of officers, and adoption of its bylaws, its existence shall begin
subject to the provisions of KRS Chapter 100. The Commission may engage in
planning operations within its jurisdiction which shall be coterminous with its
political boundary except where otherwise provided for by KRS 100.131.
(Ord. 9-7-71-1, passed 9-7-71)
§ 151.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Eddyville-Kuttawa-Lyon County Joint Planning Commission shall
consist of nine members. Not more than one-third of the membership shall be
elected or appointed officials. The County Judge will appoint three members and
the Mayors will each appoint three members. The County Judge and the Mayor of
each participating city or one of the administrative officials of the county
and each participating city selected by the Judge and Mayor respectively, or a
member of each legislative body may serve as ex-officio members. All members of
this Commission shall serve without compensation, but reimbursement of expenses
may be authorized. The term of office of members shall be staggered so that a
proportionate number serve one, two, three and four years respectively.
Reappointments or appointments to fill vacancies shall continue the staggered
pattern. All vacancies whether by resignation, dismissal, or expiration of the
term of office shall be filled within 60 days by the appropriate appointing
authority or as otherwise provided for in KRS 100.147.
   (B)   The oath of office shall be administered to all members of the
Commission before entering upon their duties. The oath shall be administered as
provided by law. The members may be removed by the appropriate authority for
inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance, or conflict of interest. The
removed members shall have the rights of appeal in the manner prescribed by KRS
100.157.
(Ord. 9-7-71-1, passed 9-7-71)
§ 151.03 OFFICERS AND STAFF.
   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson, and any other officers which it
deems necessary from among its citizen members. The term of office shall be one
year with eligibility for re-election. The Commission may employ a staff as it
may deem necessary for its work and may contract with professional planners and
other parties for such services as it may require.
(Ord. 9-7-71-1, passed 9-7-71)
§ 151.04 MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall conduct each year at least six regular meetings for the
transaction of its business. The bylaws adopted by the Commission shall reflect
the schedule of regular meetings, the manner in which notice shall be given,
date, time, place, and the subject or subjects to be discussed, as well as the
method of calling and conducting special meetings. A simple majority of the
total membership shall constitute a quorum. After a quorum has been
established, a simple majority of that quorum can transact any official
business except in those instances where there is to be an adoption or
amendment of the Commission's bylaws or elements of the Comprehensive Plan or
regulations, then a vote of the simple majority of the total membership shall
be necessary.
(Ord. 9-7-71-1, passed 9-7-71)
§ 151.05 BYLAWS.
   The Commission shall adopt and approve its bylaws before it may properly
transact any business. The bylaws shall set forth the procedures, rules and
regulations necessary for the Commission to conduct its business. The bylaws
shall describe the method for administration of funds, and provide for an
annual audit thereof.
(Ord. 9-7-71-1, passed 9-7-71)
§ 151.06 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have general powers necessary to carry out its
functions in accordance with its ordinance and KRS Chapter 100. The Commission
may be assigned any powers, duties and functions related to urban renewal or
public housing by the Fiscal Court of the county and/or a legislative body of a
participating city.
(Ord. 9-7-71-1, passed 9-7-71)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING CODE
Section
   
152.01   Zoning Code adopted by reference
§ 152.01 ZONING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning Code of the City of Kuttawa is incorporated by reference as if
fully set out herein. A copy of the Zoning Code, together with the city zoning
map is available at the City Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 12-12-10-06, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 05-09-22-3, passed 6-13-22)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Objectives
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
153.08   Establishment of development permit
   
153.09   Compliance
   
153.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.11   Interpretation
   
153.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.13   Enforcement; violation notice
Administration
   
153.25   Designation of local administrator
   
153.26   Establishment of development permit
   
153.27   Duties and responsibilities of the local administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.40   General construction standards
   
153.41   Specific standards
   
153.42   Standard for streams without established based flood elevation
(unnumbered A Zones) and/or floodways
   
153.43   Standard for shallow flooding zones
   
153.44   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
153.45   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter A
   
153.46   Critical facilities
Appeals and Variance
   
153.60   Appeals and variance procedures
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky has in KRS 82.082 delegated
to local government units the authority to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
Therefore, the City Council of Kuttawa, Kentucky, hereby adopts the following
floodplain management chapter, as follows.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of Kuttawa are subject to periodic inundation
which result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential homebuyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principle source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a
combination of both. In A zones, floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but
waves are usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year
flood, base flood elevations and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   A1-30 AND AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations are shown.
   A99 ZONE. That part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure, the use of which is incidental
to the use of the principle structure. Accessory structures should constitute a
minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation, and should be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory
structures are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay
sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
shown.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provisions of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator’s interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the
Floodplain Administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1-A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, AND AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate and velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding
is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   B AND X ZONES (SHADED). Area of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than one square mile, and areas
protected by levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-year flood). Base flood is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and AR/
AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a
1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its flood subgrade (below
ground level) on all four sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank, or other man-made
facility or infrastructure. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
official) from available technical studies, historical information, and other
available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic innundation by
floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. Critical facilities include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle equipment
storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called upon
before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest flood
elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls,
pilings, columns (post and piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls. (See
freeboard requirements for residential and non-residential structures.)
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. That portion of a structure below the base flood elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by Kuttawa based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-year flood have a moderate to
low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD, FLOODING, OR FLOOD WATER:
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e. mudflows). See MUDSLIDES.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See FLOOD-
RELATED EROSION.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e. mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation
with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all
structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional
hydraulic and/or hydrologic analysis.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §
153.60 of this chapter, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on
or victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the City Council
will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100
years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those
increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. Freeboard must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, and the like.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e. county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). Increased cost of compliance coverage
provides for the payment of a claim for the cost to comply with state or
community floodplain management laws or ordinances after a direct physical loss
by flood. When a building covered by a standard flood insurance policy under
the NFLP sustains a loss and the state or community declares the building to be
substantially or repetitively damaged, ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the
cost to elevate, floodproof, demolish, or remove the building. ICC coverage is
available on residential and non-residential buildings (this category includes
public or government buildings, such as schools, libraries, and municipal
buildings) insured under the NFTP.
   KRS 151.250. Plans for dams, levees, and the like to be approved, and permit
issued by Cabinet (Environmental and Public Protection Cabinet).
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill or other obstruction (except
those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream, or
in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for such
work have been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction or improvement and such plans and
specifications have been approved in writing by the cabinet and a permit
issued. However, the cabinet by regulation may exempt those dams, embankments
or other obstructions, which are not of such size or type as to require
approval by the Cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county, or other political subdivision of the
state shall commence the filing of any area with earth, debris, or any other
material, or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building,
barrier or obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or
stream or in the floodway of the stream so that such filling, raising, or
obstruction will in any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the
floodway of the stream unless plans and specifications for the work have been
submitted to and approved by the Cabinet and a permit issued as required in
division (1) above.
      (3)   Nothing in this section is intended to give the Cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance or operation of any drainage district, ditch or system
established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the same
except where such obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by the
Cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water resources
in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control thereof so
notified. The Department for Natural Resources through KRS Chapter 350 shall
have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Chapter 151 concerning the regulation of
dams, levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills, or other obstructions across
or along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which structures are
permitted under KRS Chapter 350 for surface coal mining operations.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMC's include the following
categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION-FILL (LOMR F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices. For a
levee system to be recognized, the following criteria must be met:
      (1)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised).
      (2)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or state
agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a community
participating in the NFIP.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support,
or basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion
of construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure's foundation
system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure's lowest floor, provided that the enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term manufactured home does not include a
recreational vehicle (see RECREATIONAL VEHICLE).
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map. followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter "A" is not used by FEMA, the letter "B" is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. Market value can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value) or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community's FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow,
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide (i.e. mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is
in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.
mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRMs. Refer to
FIRM legend pane! for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of Kuttawa's floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of Kuttawa's adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but is not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRMs and Digitally Referenced FIRMs
(DFTRMs). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD) (see BASE FLOOD). The flood that has
a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any
flood zone that begins with the letter A is subject to the 100-year flood. Over
the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a flood
with the SFHA.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31,1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of probation, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community's floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 CFR 60.3,
60.4, 60.5, and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community's participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a ten-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred, or, four or more flood
losses of $1,000 or more over the life of the structure, or, three or more
flood losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than
the current value of the structure.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local toning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). That portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1 - A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION (includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development). The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground:
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other man-made
facilities or infrastructures. See BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Means any damage to a building for which the cost of
repairs equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the
damage occurring. This term includes structures that are categorized as
repetitive loss.
      (1)   For the purposes of this definition, REPAIR is considered to occur
when the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences.
      (2)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Means any combination of reconstruction,
alteration, or improvement to a building, taking place during a one-year period
in which the cumulative percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the
current market value of the building. For the purposes of this definition, an
improvement occurs when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building. The term does not apply to:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply with
existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions;
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure; or
      (3)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B Zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. Unshaded X zones (C Zones on older
FIRMs) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is
less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by
the City Council from available technical studies, historical information, and
other available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the City
Council which may be subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters that can
adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens
of Kuttawa.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has not yet published a Flood
Insurance Study (FIS), Flood Insurance Rate Maps, or Flood Hazard Boundary Maps
for Kuttawa.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
153.26 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the City Council from taking such lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City Council, any officer or
employee, the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the Federal Insurance Administration or
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made hereunder.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.13 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATION NOTICE.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See §
153.99.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.25 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council hereby appoints the Mayor or designee to administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter by granting or denying
development permits in accordance with its provisions, and is herein referred
to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.26 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
153.07. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of local
administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required.
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be flood-proofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure will
meet the flood-proofing criteria in §
153.41(B) and §
153.43(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or flood proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, AH, and A
zones where the community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, the
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   When flood proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood
proofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make the corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained:
review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal or state law, including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner; and
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
153.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
153.40 through
153.46. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Council for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
153.41(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
elevation certificate. Verity and record the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
153.26(B);
         (b)   Certification required by §
153.41(B) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown on
a completed and certified floodproofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in accordance with §
153.26(B):
         (c)   Certification required by §
153.41(C) (elevated structures).
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
153.44(A) (subdivision standards).
         (e)   Certification required by §
153.41(E) (floodway encroachments).
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance.
         (h)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this
chapter as specified in §
153.13.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
153.60(C)(2);
         (b)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
153.07, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonable
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
153.40 through
153.46;
         (c)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
153.41(B), a floodproofmg certificate; and
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes such building, structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the administrator may enter such
building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed upon the administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If such structure or premises are occupied, he or she shall
first present proper credentials and request entry. If such building,
structure, or premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such
request entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Administrator shall have recourse to
every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building,
structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Administrator for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
      (7)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the
person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be
resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued under
the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by the
Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator's staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render himself or herself personally liable, and is hereby relieved
from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties. Any suit brought against any officer, employee, or member
because of such act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision
of this chapter shall be defended by the department of law until the final
termination of the proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.40 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or fame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces;
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures;
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter; and
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, of improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
153.07, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated no lower
than at/or above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter
walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the
unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with
standards of §
153.41.
      (1)   In an AO zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified.
      (2)   In an A zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated at/or above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include but are not limited to detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, use
of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, best
supportable and reasonable judgement in the event no data can be produced.
Title 401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060,
states as a part of the technical requirements for a state floodplain permit:
the applicant shall provide cross sections for determining floodway boundaries
(and thereby base flood elevations) at any proposed construction site where
FEMA maps are not available. All cross sections shall be referenced to mean sea
level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no more than + five-tenths
(0.5) foot. Cross sections elevations shall be taken at those points which
represent significant breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic
characteristics of the base floodplain change. Each cross section shall extend
across the entire base floodplain and shall be in the number and at the
locations specified by the cabinet. If necessary to ensure that significant
flood damage will not occur, the cabinet may require additional cross sections
or specific site elevations which extend beyond those needed for making routine
regulatory floodway boundary calculations.
      (3)   In all other Zones, elevated at/or above the base flood elevation.
Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor
including basement shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
surveyor, and verified by the community building inspection department to be
properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for non-residential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with §
153.41(A) or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be floodproofed below an elevation at/or above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment,
and ductwork, elevated no lower than at/or above the level of the base flood
elevation;
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
153.26(A)(3);
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in §
153.41(D);
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below an
elevation at/or above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin 1-
93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings (e.g.) that include fully
enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base
flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
         (a)   On individual lots or parcels;
         (b)   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
         (c)   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
         (d)   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
         (e)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; or
         (f)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of
a flood.
      (2)   All manufactured homes must be:
         (a)   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
         (b)   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than at/or above the
level of the base flood elevation; and
         (c)   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (3)   (a)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial
damage as a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated
so that:
         (b)   The manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement,
so that either the:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than at/or above the level of the base food elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (4)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A, A1-30,
AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured homes.
      (5)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is licensed
and insured in accordance with the State of Kentucky motor vehicle regulations,
is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
153.07, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge.
      (2)   If §
153.41(E) is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements and
other proposed new development shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
153.40 through
153.46.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.42 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION
(UNNUMBERED A ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
153.07, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
153.07.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.43 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
153.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet, where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   In Zone AO if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be elevated no less than two feet above the highest
adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so that
any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required as stated in §
153.41(B).
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 143.44 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is
the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 143.45 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER A.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated "A"
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one foot above grade,
total openings are to be one square inch per one square foot of floor area, at
least two openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood resistant materials below a level at/or above the base
flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.46 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the base flood
elevation at the site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into flood
waters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
APPEALS AND VARIANCE
§ 153.60 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nature of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section of the chapter are
based on the general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece
of property and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a
parcel of property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with
the requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board. The City Council shall
establish an Appeal Board consisting of members of the City Council.
   (C)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board.
      (1)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the local District Court, as provided in
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Appeals/variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the
Appeal Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. Minimum necessary means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the City Council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. In the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be
made that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not
destroy the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in the definition
section under public safety and nuisance), cause fraud or victimization of the
public (as defined in the definition section) or conflict with existing local
laws or ordinances.
      (5)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (6)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
      (7)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of §
153.60(D)(1)-(11) are satisfied and that the structure or other development is
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does
not result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for S100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the Kuttawa Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in the community's biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures (see definition) upon determination that
the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (H)   No impact certification within the floodway. Variances shall not be
issued within any mapped or designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with granting of a variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who violates this chapter or
fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined no less than $100 or imprisoned for not more than ten days, or both, and
in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the Floodplain Administrator from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 10-08-09-05, passed 9-13-10)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   BONDS
      
III.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
VI.   STREET CLOSINGS
      
VII.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
VIII.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the northern corporate
            boundary line of the city as presently located where the eastern boundary line
—  3-10-  of the Kuttawa Lake Tract conveyed to the city by the Pub-Service Company,
     60     Incorporated, by deed dated June 15, 1948 and recorded deed book 42, page 134,
            office County Clerk of Lyon County, Kentucky, crosses the corporate boundary
            line.
            Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in Knob Creek (also in the
—  - -60  eastern corporate boundary line of the city at the junction of the southern
            right- of-way line of Highway U.S. 62 with the eastern corporate boundary
            line.
—  7-28-  Annexing certain property beginning at an iron pipe in the western right-of-
     60     way line of U.S. Highway 641, also the boundary line of Vista Ridge Park.
70-  3-26-  Annexing the territory fully bounded and described in the ordinance proposing
3-   70     to annex same, introduced and read on March 17, 1970 and again read and
26-1        adopted on March 26, 1970.
—  9-4-79 Annexing the following two tracts of land:
          Tract I: Beginning at the city limits on the south side of the right-of-way of
            Highway 62/641 and approximately 800 feet east of Lake Shore Drive.
            Tract II: Beginning at an existing right-of-way access controlled fence post
          set in the south line of I- 24 ramp “A” and being 110.0 feet west and
            perpendicular to U.S. 62/641 centerline.
—  11-7-  Annexing the following two tracts of land:
     88
            Tract I: Beginning at an iron pin on the west side of KY 295, being 30 feet
          from the center of the highway and about 3,000 feet east of the intersection
            of KY 295 and U.S. 62 and 641, corner to U.S.A. tract T-681 and at approximate
            Kentucky Coordinates (south zone) North 274,150 feet east 1,306,900 feet.
            Tract II: Beginning at a point in the center of Stubbs Road and also being in
            the west right-of-way on KY 295, being 30 feet from the center of the highway,
            about 3,000 feet east of U.S. 62 and 641 and being the northern most corner of
          Tract I and with the meanders of the center of Stubbs Road South 43 degrees
            35' west 62.86 feet, south 39 degrees 04' west 57.83 feet, south 23 degrees
            20' west 53.40 feet south 01 degrees 46' east 51.90 feet, south 28 degrees 02'
            east 52.69 feet, south 42 degrees 52' east 53.27 feet, south 47 degrees 35'
            east 65.30 feet to a point in the center of Stubbs Road.
94-  9-12-  Annexing phase I of Hickory Hills Subdivision, being at the southeast corner
9-   94     of Block G, Lot 14, as shown on the plat of the city.
12-5
97-         Annexing a tract of land near Lake Clough, on the west side of West Clough
5-5- 6-2-97 Drive, (shown as East Clough Drive by Plat of Record), at its intersection
3           with Magnolia Drive and East Clough Drive.
            Annexing a certain tract or parcel of land on the north side of Old U.S.
            Highway 641, beginning at a point on the north side of said highway, corner to
97-         land formerly owned by Clyde McKinney (conveyed to Noble Orr et ux); thence
9-2- 10-6-  with said McKinney line northwardly 415 feet to an iron pin, Charlie Harris
5    97     Line (now Orr); thence eastwardly with Charlie Harris line 200 feet to an iron
            pin; thence southwardly 415 feet to an iron pin in the north right of way of
            said highway; thence westwardly with said right of way 300 feet to the point
            of beginning, containing 1.8 acres, more or less.
97-         Annexing a parcel of land located at the northwest intersection of East Clough
9-2- 10-6-  Drive and Old U.S. Highway 62, more particularly described as beginning at a
6    97     ½" rebar (set) at said intersection 55 ft. north of the center of Old Hwy. 62
            and approximately 41 ft. west of the center of East Clough Drive.
97-         Annexing one certain parcel of land of 7.6 acres beginning at a fence post in
12-  1-5-98 the north right-of-way limits of an existing 30' county road, common corner to
1-10        the city of Kuttawa.
98-  10-5-  Annexing a tract of land 48.93 acres located in the second magisterial
10-  98     district of Lyon County. Located approximately 1.2 miles northeast of Kuttawa.
5-5
98-  10-5-  Annexing 19.55 acres beginning at an iron pin, being the southwest corner of
10-  98     lot eight of the Will Yates Subdivision at approximate Kentucky coordinates N.
5-6         271,200 ft., E. 1.303,200 ft., being a common corner.
98-  10-5-  Annexing lots 4, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16 of block 40, City of Kuttawa,
10-  98     Kentucky.
5-7
00-         Annexing four certain lots or parcels of land in Lyon County, Kentucky,
2-7- 4-3-00 located north of U.S. Highway 641/62, between the cities of Eddyville and
1           Kuttawa, described as Lots 4C, 5C, 30 and 31 of the Kuttawa Heights
            Subdivision; and Lot 21 in the Kuttawa Heights Subdivision.
10-         Annexing the certain highway corridor along and including the now existing and
1-   11-5-  future rights-of-way of U.S. Hwy. 62 extending from the present city limits to
01-  01     State Route 810 South, and including the now existing and future rights-of-
14          way.
02-         Annexing that certain highway corridor along and including the now existing
2-4- 3-4-02 and future rights-of-way of U.S. Hwy. 62 extending from the present city
1           limits to State Route 810 South, and including the now existing and future
            rights-of-way of State Route 810 South from its intersection with Highway 62.
02-         Annexing a tract or parcel of land lying and being in Lyon County, Kentucky,
05-  6-10-  two ± miles westerly from Kuttawa in the community of Suwanee, Kentucky, lying
06-1 02     on the south side if U.S. Highway 62 and 641, containing the Cumberland House
            Restaurant.
            Annexing a parcel of land and water area in Lyon County, Kentucky, on Poplar
02-         Creek (Barkley Lake) containing 119.70 acres, more or less (71.1 acres of land
05-  10-24- and 48.6 acres of water), being tracts 112-1, 407, 500-1, 500-2, 502 and 505,
13-  02     the same property leased to Leisure Cruise Inc., d/b/a/ Buzzard Rock Resort
01          and Marina, by the United States, by and through the Secretary of the Army,
            for a term of 25 years, beginning October 1, 1999, and ending September 30,
            2024, being lease no. DACW62-1- 99-0111.
            Annexing a portion of The Springs Subdivision lying on the westerly side of
06-  10-18- Highway 295 and on the northerly side of interstate 24 and Barkly Lake, and
10-  06     generally bounded on the south by lands of Robert D. Yates, on the north by
9-06        lands of Charles and Della Oliver and Baccus Oliver, and on the east by
            portions of The Springs Subdivision.
07-         Annexing 13.794 acres located at the intersection of U.S. Hwy. 62-641 and I-
11-  12-19- 24, on the south side of I-24 and east of U.S. Hwy. 62-641, at or near Exit 40
13-  07     in Lyons County, Kentucky. Excluded is that portion of the proposed and
05          relocated Mary Blue Road, containing 0.3781, lying along a portion of the
            south boundary of said 13.794.
08-         Annexing a tract of land lying between Old Kuttawa and New Kuttawa on the
06-  6-16-  northeast side of Hwy. 295 in Lyon County, Kentucky , more particularly
09-  08     described as beginning at 1/2" rebar (set) in the Corps of Engineers line on
03          the northeast side of Hwy. 295 approximately 567 feet southeast on the
            centerline intersection of Hwy. 295 and Elm Grove Church Road.
09-
11-  12-14- Annexing Lot 20 of Kuttawa Heights Subdivision in Lyon County, Kentucky,
09-  09     consisting of 0.25 acres.
06
09-         Amending Ord. 07-11-13-05, and annexing three parcels of land located on the
11-  12-14- north side of Mary Blue Road, south of Interstate 24 and east of Kentucky
09-  09     Highway 62, approximately 2.4 miles west of Eddyville, located in Lyon County.
07
            Amending Ord. 08-06-09-03, and annexing a parcel of land bounded on the west
            by Highway 295 and the Army Corp of Engineers, bounded on the north by Elm
10-         Grove Church Road and bounded on the east and south by Charles and Pamela
01-  2-8-10 Morris, located in Lyons County, and a parcel of land being 60 feet in width,
11-         beginning at the intersection of Elm Grove Church Road and Kentucky Highway
01          295 at mile marker 0.0575 ± and continuing in a southerly direction along
            Highway 295 to mile marker 0.822 (approximately 1.304 feet), located in Lyon
            County.
Res.        Adopting the legal description of land annexed into the city by Ord. 14-04-14-
15-  - -24  02, passed 5-21-2014.
2024
Res.        Adopting the legal description of territory previously annexed by the city by
16-  - -24  Ord. dated 1-5-1998.
2024
Res.        Adopting the legal description of land annexed into the city by Ord. 08-06-09-
17-  - -24  03.
2024
Res.        Adopting the legal description of land annexed into the city by Ord. dated 5-
18-  - -24  14-2012.
2024
           
 
TABLE II: BONDS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Authorizing the issuance of $115,000 of “City of Kuttawa Street Improvement
—  11-8-  Assessment Bonds - Project No. 1” in order to provide the costs and expenses
     79     of constructing public ways, in the city, the properties and area to be
            benefited thereby being as described in Ord. passed 11-8-79.
99-  2-15-  Authorizing the issuance of its first Mortgage Revenue Bonds (GF/Kentucky,
2-   99     Inc. project), series 1999; not to exceed $300,000, for use and occupancy by
15-1        the borrower in furtherance of its nonprofit health care purposes.
10-
09-  11-8-  Authorizing and approving the issuance of General Obligation Refunding Bonds,
13-  10     Series 2010.
08
           
 
TABLE III: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Providing for leasing Vista Ridge Park, the lake tract and three acres of
—   - -    land on the hill near reservoir to W.C. Sparks for prospecting and mining
             purposes and authorizing, empowering and directing the Mayor to execute
             the two lease agreements for and on behalf of the city.
             Ratifying and approving execution of lease agreements to W.C. Sparks and
—   - -    accepting and approving agreement executed by Mary L. Anderson Wood and
             others ratifying and approving lease agreement leasing Vista Ridge Park to
             W.C. Sparks.
             A contract between the city and the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and its
             Department of Highways for the building of a concrete chimney on the inlet
—   6-15-  to the concrete double box culvert or flume at Kuttawa Lake (Lake Clough),
      48     at or about station 24-07, State Project 72-111 and 72-171 (Kuttawa and
             Gilbertsville Dam Highway), in Lyon County that will raise the water level
             of the lake to approximately 347 feet elevation.
7-3-         Authorizing the Mayor Pro Tem, on behalf of the city, to execute a
61-1  7-3-61 specific contract with the state agency of the Old-Age and Survivor's
             Insurance System.
             Appropriating unencumbered funds on hand for the payment to the state
7-3-  7-3-61 agency of the Old-Age and Survivors Insurance System of the obligations of
61-2         the city under the contract entered into with the state agency by the
             adoption of Ordinance 7-3-61- 1.
      12-13- Adopting and approving the Lyon County Inter- Local Cooperation Agreement
—   76     for the establishment of a consolidated police force with county-wide
             jurisdiction.
08-   7-31-  Approving a lease agreement for the financing of a public project in a
07-   08     maximum principal amount not to exceed $20,000.
30-06
             Superceding Ord. 8-6-90-1 and approving the 2011 Interlocal Agreement by
11-   12-12- and between the Kentucky State Police and the counties of Ballard, Fulton,
11-   11     Graves, Hickman and Lyon, and the cities of Wickliffe, LaCenter, Fulton,
14-05        Hickman, Kevil, Barlow, Eddyville, Kuttawa, Columbus, Wingo, Water Valley,
             and Clinton, for administration of a 911 Emergency telephone service.
Res.  11-8-  Approving an assistance agreement between the City of Kuttawa, Kentucky
2021- 21     and the Kentucky Infrastructure Authority to provide up to $223,000 of
04           loan funds for Project Number A21-024.
07-          Adopting an interlocal agreement regarding the provision of law
11-   8-8-22 enforcement services by the Lyon County Sheriff’s Department to the City
22-5         of Kuttawa.
Res.         Authorizing construction of a portion of Ash Street located between Second
01-   - -23  Street and Third Street within the City of Kuttawa, Kentucky and approving
2023         a roadway construction agreement with Lindenwalk Group LLC, a Kentucky
             Limited Liability Company.
             Adopting and approving the execution of a Municipal Aid Co-op Program
Res.         Contract between the Incorporated City and Commonwealth of Kentucky,
06-   - -23  Transportation Cabinet, Department of Rural and Municipal Aid for the
2023         fiscal year beginning July 1, 2023, as provided in the Kentucky Revised
             Statutes and accepting all streets referred to therein as being streets
             which are a part of the Incorporated City.
             Authorizing the Mayor to make application for and to enter into an
Res.  - -23  agreement with the Kentucky Office of Homeland Security to execute any
07-23        documents which are deemed necessary to facilitate and administer the
             project, and to act as the authorized correspondent for this project.
Res.  - - 24 Approving the grant assistance agreement with the Kentucky Infrastructure
24-14        Authority.
            
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
                        Granting a franchise to Galaxy Cablevision, Inc., its
10-6-80-2   11-3-80     successors and assigns, to operate and maintain a
                        Community Antenna Television System in the city for a
                        15-year period.
                        Granting a franchise to Kentucky Utilities Company for
—         4-7-86      the generation, transmission, and distribution of
                        electrical energy to the city for a 20-year period.
                        Creating a franchise for the erection, laying, and
                        maintenance of electric facilities, and appurtenant
                        facilities and equipment in, along, and across the
10-09-13-07 10-11-10    public ways, roads, streets, alleys, and other public
                        places in the city, for furnishing and selling
                        electricity by means of said facilities, and providing
                        for the sale of said franchise.
                       
 
TABLE V: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Deeding certain parcels of real estate to the
1-11-72-1 1-11-72     Commonwealth of Kentucky for the use and benefit of the
                      Department of Highways.
                      Consolidating Lots 13 and 14 in Block G of the recorded
                      city plat found in Plat Cabinet 1, Slide 18, Lyon County
94-6-6-3  6-6-94      Court Clerk's office into one, and releasing the 20-foot
                      utility easement lying between the common boundary line
                      of the two lots.
                      Deeding certain real property in the city to the
01-5-7-7  6-4-02      Commonwealth of Kentucky, Transportation Cabinet,
                      Department of Highways.
                     
 
TABLE VI: STREET CLOSINGS
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Closing an undeveloped street, crossing over the property
                      of the Kuttawa Relocation Foundation, and beginning at
94-9-12-4 9-12-94     the northwest corner, a point in the east right-of-way
                      line of Vista Drive, said point being S-33-36-04-E 108.84
                      feet from a 5/8-inch iron pin at the end of the curve on
                      Vista Drive.
                      Closing a certain portion of second street commencing at
                      the northeasterly corner of lot eight, block three,
                      Kuttawa, Kentucky, subsequent to a dedication of a two
98-11-2-8 12-7-98     feet by fifty feet area along Holly street, extending
                      into Second street four feet for a distance of 25 feet
                      along the eastern property line of lot eight, block
                      three.
                     
 
TABLE VII: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     (1) Changing the name of the streets known as Oak Street
                     and Sycamore Street to Lake Barkley Drive; and
                     (2) Naming so much of the thoroughfare listed as Kentucky
                     Highway 295 as passes through the city from the
                     northeastern city limits near its eastern junction with
5-2-66-1 5-2-66      Highway US 62 and 641 to the northwestern city limits Lake
                     Barkley Drive; and
                     (3) Requesting that the Lyon Fiscal Court designate the
                     section of Kentucky Highway 295 from the northwestern city
                     limits to its western terminus at Highways 62 and 641 as
                     Lake Barkley Drive.
                     Renaming certain city streets designated on Exhibit A,
94-4-4-1 4-4-94      attached to Ord. 94-4-4-1. The streets with name changes
                     in the shopping center section are further identified by
                     Exhibit B, attached to Ord. 94-4-4-1.
                    
 
TABLE VIII: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
                        Rezoning the property south of Poplar Street between
90-1        6-4-90      7th and 9th Streets in the city from Resort Commercial
                        to Resort A.
                        Rezoning a certain property located on the westerly
97-10-6-7   11-3-97     side of Highway 295 and the northerly side of
                        Interstate 24 and Lake Barkley from Agriculture to R-1,
                        Single Family Residential.
                        Rezoning the following parcels from Lake Residential to
08-12-24-09 8-19-24     Planned Unit Development: Parcel ID #s 12E-1 to 12E-8,
                        12E-10 to 12E-44, 12E-9, 12H4, 12H5, 12H6, and 12H7.
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section                  Code Section
6.050                        32.48
6.955 - 6.975                33.04
Ch. 13B                      93.06
18A.225                      112.04
21.970(4)                    52.17
Chapter 31                   34.16
41.240                       33.37
41.240(4)                    33.05
42.450 - 42.495              33.04
43.050                       33.04
Ch. 45A                      34.16
Ch. 58                       50.33,
                             51.43
58.010 - 58.140              51.01
Ch. 56                       34.16
Ch. 61                       32.21
61.252                       36.16
61.810                       36.66
61.823(2) - (4)              91.15
61.870                       34.01
61.870 - 61.882              31.36
                             34.17,
61.870 - 61.884              36.63,
                             36.69,
                             36.70
61.872 - 61.884              36.20
61.872(4)                    34.06
61.872(5)                    34.07
61.872(6)                    34.08
61.874(1) - (2)              34.12
61.874(3),(4)                34.13
61.874(5)                    34.14
61.874(6)                    34.15
61.878                       34.01,
                             34.16
61.878(1)                    34.16
61.880(1)                    34.09,
                             34.16
61.884                       34.11
62.020                       31.01
Ch. 64                       31.51
65.003                       36.03
65.067                       31.01
65.120                       Ch. 72
65.877                       90.01,
                             90.12
65.8801 - 65.8840            92.14
65.8808(1)                   90.99
65.8808(3)                   90.99
66.480                       33.30,
                             33.37
66.480(1)(a)                 33.37
66.480(1)(b)                 33.37
66.480(1)(c)                 33.37
66.480(1)(d)                 33.37
66.480(1)(e)                 33.37
66.480(1)(e),(f),(g),(k),(l) 33.37
66.480(1)(f)                 33.37
66.480(1)(g)                 33.37
66.480(1)(h)                 33.37
66.480(1)(i)                 33.37
66.480(1)(j)                 33.37
66.480(1)(k)                 33.37
66.480(1)(l)                 33.37
66.480(2)                    33.37
66.480(2)(a)                 33.38
66.480(2)(b)                 33.38
66.480(2)(d)(1) - (4)        33.38
66.660                       91.06
Ch. 78                       31.55
82.082                       36.03,
                             153.01
Ch. 83A                      31.55
83A.010(5)                   10.02
83A.010(6)                   10.02
83A.010(8)                   10.02
83A.030(1)                   30.02
83A.040(1),(2),(6)           31.21
83A.040(2)(c)                31.21
83A.040(2)(d)                31.21
83A.040(3)                   31.21
83A.040(4)                   32.01
83A.040(5)                   32.02
83A.040(6)                   32.02
83A.040(7)                   31.21,
                             32.02
83A.040(8)                   31.21,
                             32.02
83A.040(9)                   31.03
83A.045(2)                   31.20
83A.045(2)(b)                31.20
83A.050                      31.20
83A.060(1)                   32.35
83A.060(2)                   32.36
83A.060(3)                   32.37
83A.060(4),(7)               32.38
83A.060(5)                   32.40
83A.060(6)                   32.22
83A.060(8)                   32.41,
                             32.42
83A.060(9)                   32.43
83A.060(10)                  32.44
83A.060(11)                  32.45
83A.060(12),(13)             32.46
83A.060(14)                  32.47
83A.060(15)                  32.48
83A.070                      31.02
83A.075                      31.02
83A.080                      36.04
83A.080(1),(2)               31.35
83A.080(2)                   31.03
83A.080(3),(4)               31.20
83A.085                      31.36
83A.130                      31.21
83A.130(1)                   30.01
83A.130(2)                   30.02
83A.130(3)                   31.21
83A.130(4)                   31.21
83A.130(5)                   32.20
83A.130(6)                   32.39
83A.130(7)                   31.21
83A.130(8)                   31.21
83A.130(9)                   31.21
83A.130(10)                  31.21
83A.130(11)                  32.03,
                             32.21
83A.130(12)                  32.03
83A.130(13)                  32.03
83A.175                      32.02
Ch. 91A                      35.07
91A.010(6)                   33.01
91A.010(7)                   33.01
91A.010(8)                   10.02
91A.020                      33.02
91A.030                      33.03
91A.040                      33.04
91A.050                      33.04
91A.060                      33.05,
                             33.30
91A.080(8)                   112.06
91A.200                      33.11
91A.210                      33.10
91A.220                      33.11
91A.230                      33.12
91A.240                      33.13
91A.250                      33.14
91A.260                      33.15
91A.270                      33.16
91A.280                      33.17
91A.290                      33.18
91A.350 et seq.              37.01
91A.350 - 91A.390            37.02
91A.360                      37.02
91A.360(4)                   37.02
91A.360(5)                   37.04
91A.400                      37.03
96.934                       52.85
Ch. 100                      151.01,
                             151.06
100.131                      151.01
100.147                      151.02
100.157                      151.02
Ch. 107                      33.11
131.190                      34.16
132.285                      35.01
134.800                      35.04
134.810                      35.04
Ch. 136                      35.06
136.320                      112.04
Ch. 151                      153.05
151.250                      153.05,
                             153.06
Ch. 154                      34.16
174.100                      91.15
174.100(1)                   91.16
174.100(2)                   91.17
174.100(3)                   91.18
174.100(4)                   91.19
174.100(5)                   91.20
178.290                      91.06
186.030                      74.06
186.050                      74.06
186A.145                     72.22
186A.190                     72.22
Ch. 189                      74.05
189.020                      71.27
189.285                      73.02
189.286                      74.02,
                             74.03
189.287                      73.01
189.290                      71.25
189.330(8)                   71.02
189.338                      70.15
189.450(5),(6)               72.03
189.580                      71.15
189.725                      72.08
189.820                      74.04
189.830                      74.02
189.930                      71.26
189.990(1)                   72.99
189.993(8)                   71.99
Ch. 198B                     150.03
198B.070                     150.03
198B.990(1)                  150.99
218A.010                     117.01
218B.080                     117.01
218B.085                     117.01
218B.090                     117.01
218B.130(8)(a)               117.03
222.201                      130.01
222.202                      130.01
222.202(1)                   130.01
222.990(3) - (5)             130.99
222.990(5)                   130.99
224.20-720                   74.06
226.010                      111.01
226.020                      111.02
226.030                      111.07
226.040                      111.03
226.050                      111.04
226.060                      111.08
226.070                      111.03
226.080                      111.05
226.090                      111.06
226.100                      111.08
226.990(1)                   111.99
226.990(3)                   111.99
227.700 - 227.750            93.06
227.700                      93.01
227.702                      93.01,
                             93.03
227.704                      93.01
227.706                      93.01
227.708                      93.01
227.710                      93.02
227.715                      93.03
227.715(6) - (8)             93.03
227.720                      93.04
227.730                      93.05
227.750                      93.06
227.990(1)                   150.99
227.990(4)                   93.99
Ch. 231                      113.20
Ch. 241                      114.02
241.060                      114.03
241.200                      114.12
Ch. 242                      114.01,
                             114.02
Ch. 243                      114.02
243.450                      114.10
243.500                      114.10
Ch. 244                      114.02
244.150                      114.03
258.015                      90.30
258.35(3)                    90.42
258.238                      90.40
260.850                      117.01
Ch. 281                      72.21
281.926                      72.22
281.928                      72.22
281.928(1)                   72.22
281.932                      72.22
Ch. 304                      112.01
Ch. 304, subtitle 10         112.01
304.38-060                   112.04
304.39-080                   74.04
304.49-010                   112.04
318.990                      150.99
321.175 et seq.              90.01
Ch. 337                      31.55
Ch. 350                      153.05
376.275(1)                   72.22
376.275(2)                   72.22
381.770(5)                   92.14
411.500 - 411.570            Ch. 92
                             32.43,
Ch. 424                      33.04,
                             33.14,
                             33.15
424.220                      33.04
436.320                      113.18
446.010(1)                   10.02
446.010(2)                   10.02
446.010(8)                   10.02
446.010(9)                   10.02
446.010(10)                  10.02
446.010(12)                  10.02
446.010(13)                  10.02
446.010(14)                  10.02
446.010(15)                  10.02
446.010(17)                  10.02
446.010(18)                  10.02
446.010(23)                  10.02
446.010(25)                  10.02
446.010(26)                  10.02
446.010(27)                  10.02
446.010(28)                  10.02
446.010(30)                  10.02
446.010(31)                  10.02
446.010(33)                  10.02
446.010(36)                  10.02
446.010(37)                  10.02
446.010(39)                  10.02
446.010(43)                  10.02
446.010(46)                  10.02
446.010(47)                  10.02
446.010(49)                  10.02
446.010(55)                  10.02
446.020(1)                   10.03
446.020(2)                   10.03
446.030                      10.04
446.050                      10.05
446.060                      10.06
446.080(1)                   10.03
446.080(3)                   10.03,
                             10.08
446.110                      10.09
446.140                      10.01
500.080(16)                  90.01
525.010                      130.01
525.100                      130.99
525.100(1)                   130.01
                             
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
                         72.13,
                         94.06,
                         95.01,
—          - -         113.01 -
                         113.02,
                         130.02 -
                         130.04,
                         T.S.O. III
—          - -40       113.03
2-4-46(B)    2-4-46      113.15 -
                         113.20
—          6-15-48     T.S.O. III
—          - -60       T.S.O. I
—          3-10-60     T.S.O. I
—          7-28-60     T.S.O. I
7-3-61-1     7-3-61      T.S.O. III
7-3-61-2     7-3-61      T.S.O. III
1-7-63-1     1-7-63      51.34
9-3-63-1     9-3-63      150.01
                         50.25 -
2-1-65-2     - -65       50.27,
                         50.30 -
                         50.33
                         50.01 -
—          2-1-65      50.15,
                         50.99
5-2-66-1     5-2-66      T.S.O. VII
70-3-26-1    3-26-70     T.S.O. I
9-7-71-1     9-7-71      Ch. 151
1-11-72-1    1-11-72     T.S.O. V
—          12-13-76    T.S.O. III
—          9-4-79      T.S.O. II
—          11-8-79     T.S.O. II
10-6-80-2    11-3-80     T.S.O. IV
10-4-82-5    - -82       50.25
10-4-82-4    11-1-82     33.06
9-6-83-2     - -83       50.25
—          8-1-83      33.03
3-3-86-1     - -86       50.25
—          4-7-86      T.S.O. IV
—          11-7-88     T.S.O. II
90-1         6-4-90      T.S.O. VIII
—          1-1-94      51.34
94-4-4-1     4-4-94      T.S.O. VII
94-5-2-2     6-6-94      93.22,
                         93.99
94-6-6-3     6-6-94      T.S.O. V
94-9-12-4    9-12-94     T.S.O. VI
94-9-12-5    9-12-94     T.S.O. II
—          11-28-94    51.34
94-12-5-6    12-12-94    Ch. 36
12-4-95-1    12-12-95    31.20
—          1- -96      51.34
96-8-5       9-3-96      Adopting Ordinance
12-2-96      12-2-96     50.16,
                         50.17
11-7-88-1    1-1-97      51.34
97-5-5-1     5-5-97      35.06
97-5-5-2     6-2-97      Adopting Ordinance
97-5-5-3     6-2-97      T.S.O. I
97-9-2-5     10-6-97     T.S.O. I
97-9-2-6     10-6-97     T.S.O. I
97-10-6-7    11-3-97     T.S.O. VIII
97-10-6-8    10-13-97    35.03
97-11-3-9    - -97       50.25
97-12-1-10   1-5-98      T.S.O. I
98-6-1-2     7-6-98      Adopting Ordinance
                         50.27,
98-7-6-3     - - 98      50.30,
                         50.32
98-7-6-4     - - 98      51.34
98-10-5-5    10-5-98     T.S.O. I
98-10-5-6    10-5-98     T.S.O. I
98-10-5-7    10-5-98     T.S.O. I
98-11-2-8    12-7-98     T.S.O. VI
99-2-15-1    2-15-99     T.S.O. II
99-7-6-3     7-6-99      Adopting Ordinance
00-2-7-1     4-13-00     T.S.O. I
00-6-5-2     6-13-00     Adopting Ordinance
00-8-7-3     8-14-00     50.25,
                         50.32
                         114.01 -
01-3-5-4     3-12-01     114.12,
                         114.99
01-4-2-6     4-10-01     35.07
01-5-7-7     6-4-01      T.S.O. V
01-7-2-8     7-2-01      Adopting Ordinance
10-1-01-14   11-5-01     T.S.O. I
02-2-4-1     3-4-02      T.S.O. I
02-05-06-1   6-10-02     T.S.O. I
02-05-13-01  10-24-02    T.S.O. I
03-11-10-06  12-17-03    50.25
04-07-21-05  7-22-04     115.01
05-03-14-02  4-11-05     50.27
05-07-11-07  8-8-06      Adopting Ordinance
06-10-9-06   10-18-06    T.S.O. I
07-11-13-05  12-10-07    T.S.O. I
08-06-09-03  6-16-08     T.S.O. I
08-07-30-06  7-31-08     T.S.O. III
09-03-09-01  4-13-09     Adopting Ordinance
09-06-08-03  6-17-09     150.01
09-11-09-06  12-14-09    T.S.O. I
09-11-09-07  12-14-09    T.S.O. I
09-11-09-08  12-14-09    150.01
10-01-11-01  2-8-10      T.S.O. I
                         153.01 -
                         153.13,
                         153.25 -
10-08-09-05  9-13-10     153.27,
                         153.40 -
                         153.46,
                         153.60,
                         153.99
10-09-13-07  10-11-10    T.S.O. IV
10-09-13-08  11-08-10    T.S.O. II
11-11-14-05  12-12-11    T.S.O. III
12-12-10-06  - -         152.01
                         74.01 -
12-08-13-03  9-10-12     74.07,
                         74.99
13-06-11-03  6-17-13     114.09
                         114.02,
13-11-12-05  12-9-13     114.05,
                         114.07
16-06-13-04  6-22-16     37.01 -
                         37.07
                         51.01 -
                         51.03,
                         51.15 -
                         51.22,
                         51.30 -
                         51.38,
                         51.40 -
                         51.43,
                         51.99,
                         52.01 -
18-09-10-01  9-10-18     52.03,
                         51.15 -
                         52.22,
                         52.30 -
                         52.43,
                         52.50,
                         52.51,
                         52.60 -
                         52.74,
                         52.80 -
                         52.86
01-14-19-01  3-11-19     31.50 -
                         31.55
                         51.34,
02-11-19-02  3-11-19     51.35,
                         52.83
8-12-19-07   10-14-19    35.08
                         51.34,
01-06-20-01  1-13-20     51.35,
                         51.40
02-10-20-04  3-9-20      37.03
03-09-20-06  - -         33.30 -
                         33.42
                         33.50 -
09-14-20-10  9-17-20     33.52,
                         33.99
11-09-20-11  12-15-20    112.01 -
                         112.09
                         116.01 -
12-13-16-21  - -         116.09,
                         116.99
Res. 2021-04 11-8-21     T.S.O. III
05-09-22-3   6-13-22     152.01
07-11-22-5   8-8-22      T.S.O. III
Res. 01-2023 - -23       T.S.O. III
Res. 06-2023 - -23       T.S.O. III
04-10-23-01  5-8-23      38.01 - 38-05,
                         38.99
                         90.01 -
                         90.13,
                         90.20 -
                         90.23,
08-12-24-05  - -         90.30,
                         90.31,
                         90.40 -
                         90.43,
                         90.99
Res. 07-23   - -23       T.S.O. III
Res. 15-2024 - -24       T.S.O. I
Res. 16-2024 - -24       T.S.O. I
Res. 17-2024 - -24       T.S.O. I
Res. 18-2024 - -24       T.S.O. I
Res. 24-14   - -24       T.S.O. III
06-10-24-04  7-8-24      117.01 -
                         117.03
08-12-24-08  8-19-24     92.01 -
                         92.16
08-12-24-09  8-19-24     T.S.O. VIII
                        
 
