LAGRANGE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2-2025, passed 4-7-2025; and
State legislation current through 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
Council Members
Council Members
Latosha Booker-Bishop Jason Kinser
Joe Davenport         Jason Taylor
Trey Kamer            Kenneth Powell
Lucy Ricketts         Laura Taylor
                      
Mayor                 John W. Black
                      
City Clerk            Heather Woodcox
                      
City Attorney         Beach Craigmyle
                      
Police Chief          Greg Collett
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
LaGrange Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Title heads, chapter heads and section and division heads or
titles, and explanatory notes and cross-references, do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of LaGrange irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Oldham County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   EXECUTIVE ORDER. An order issued by the Mayor which is binding upon the
officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which the
city has jurisdiction.
(KRS 83A.010(7))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MISDEMEANOR. An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1) or both.
(KRS 83A.065)
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPAL ORDER. An official act of the City Council which is binding upon
the officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which
the city has jurisdiction.
(KRS 83A.010(9))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of LaGrange, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. 
(KRS 446.010(28))
   OFFICER. Any person elected to a position by the voters or any person
appointed to a position which:
      (1)   Is created by the Constitution, the General Assembly or a city;
      (2)   Possesses a delegation of a portion of the sovereign power of
government;
      (3)   Has powers and duties to be discharged which are conferred directly
or by implication by the city;
      (4)   Has duties performed independently and without control of a
superior power other than the law;
      (5)   Has some permanency;
      (6)   Requires an official oath;
      (7)   Is assigned by a commission or other written authority; and
      (8)   Provides for an official bond if required by proper authority.
(KRS 83A.010(10))
   ORDINANCE. An official act of the City Council which is a regulation of a
general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law or is an
appropriation of money.
(KRS 83A.010(11))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers and other persons with similar authority to
make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   VIOLATION. An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the amount
set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(c).
(KRS 83A.065)
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and legally
closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days just
mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add or repeal a chapter, section or
division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
      (KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Fine amount for ordinance violations authorized by state law, see KRS
83A.065 and 534.040
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
34A.   PUBLIC MEETINGS
      
35.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
35A.   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
      
36.   HUMAN RESOURCES
      
37.   TAXATION
      
38.   DISCRIMINATION BASED ON DISABILITY STATUS
      
39.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
40.   PROCUREMENT STANDARDS (CDBG)
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan”, and this chapter, together with KRS 83A.010 to 83A.120 govern
the city.
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or
city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of eight members.
(Ord. 5-81, passed 2-5-1981)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath of office
   
31.02   Bond
   
31.03   Compensation
   
31.04   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Council members
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk
   
31.37   Deputy Clerk
   
31.38   City Attorney
   
31.39   Treasurer/Bookkeeper
   
31.40   Chief of Police
   
31.41   Deputy Chief
   
31.42   Police officer
   
31.43   Code Enforcement Officer
   
31.44   Code Compliance Mediator
   
31.45   Human Resources Director
   
31.46   Finance Director
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do
solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the
Constitution of this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States,
and be faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue
a citizen thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my
ability, the office of           , according to law; and I do further solemnly
swear (or affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I,
being a citizen of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly
weapons within this State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a
challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in
carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help
me God,” as established by § 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification of oath. The person administering the oath of office to
an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath was administered and
the date of its administration. The written certification shall be filed in
accordance with KRS 62.020.
§ 31.02 BOND.
   (A)   All officers, officials and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments and special districts who handle
public funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient
bond to the local governing body for the faithful and honest performance of his
or her duties and as security for all money coming into that person’s hands or
under that person’s control. The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum
amount of public funds the officer, official or employee handles at any given
time during a fiscal year cycle. The local governing body shall pay the cost of
the bond.
   (B)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with division (A) of this section.
(KRS Chapter 65)
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every elected
city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the
officer is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed
after his or her election or during his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.070(1))
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Council members
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
shall compute by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky,
which provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a
rate no greater than $12,000 per annum, and Mayors in cities other than the
first class and Council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200
per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
(KRS 83A.075)
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of city employees and
nonelected city officers in accordance with the personnel and pay
classification plan ordinance of the city.
(KRS 83A.070(2))
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(KRS 83A.070(3))
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.04 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
incapacity or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory references:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All elected city offices shall be governed by the non-partisan
election statute of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, KRS 83A.170. All elected city
offices shall be elected pursuant to the provisions of KRS 83A.170 for primary
elections and general elections.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E) and (F) of this section,
but no existing elected office may be changed.
(Ord. 3-81, passed 2-5-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Election to fill unexpired term of city office, see KRS 83A.165
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office shall begin on January 1 following his or her
election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor qualifies.
If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and
serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be
considered for purposes of re-election to a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(a), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)    No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the Mayor’s electronic mail address and
includes also the Mayor’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring
on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. If a
resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed to
become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council or the Governor,
whichever is designated to make the appointment, shall immediately notify in
writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to 83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and
exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and shall require each department to
make reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems
desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to ensure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) of this section. However, the
Mayor may not delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the
Council, and the authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative
procedures may only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the
Council, the Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under
this division (D)(8) within 30 days of the action. If for any reason the
disability of the Mayor to attend to his or her duties persists for 60
consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote
of the Council and the provisions of §
31.21(C) shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
§ 31.22 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   The appointed term of all nonelected officers, with the exception of
police officers, shall be the same as that of the City Council appointing or
approving their respective appointments. Police officers shall not be governed
by terms of office but by the “at will” rules of employment governing employees
in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and by the personnel policies and any
applicable statutes.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk;
      (2)   Deputy Clerk;
      (3)   Treasurer/Bookkeeper;
      (4)   Chief of Police;
      (5)   Deputy Chief;
      (6)   Police Officer;
      (7)   City Attorney;
      (8)   Code Enforcement Officer; and
      (9)   Human Resources Director.
   (E)   Any appointment made by the Mayor for any position shall follow the
guidelines below.
      (1)   The name of the nominee must be given ten days prior to any meeting
of the City Council.
      (2)   A resume or letter of interest must accompany the nomination, and
be distributed to each member of the City Council.
      (3)   The Council shall consider this nomination, and may contact the
nominee to interview them regarding his or her interest in the position.
      (4)   A vote shall be held regarding the appointment nomination at the
next regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council, after which the nominee
was first recommended by the Mayor.
(Ord. 10-82, passed 6-21-1982; Ord. 19-97, passed 10-8-1997; Ord. 15-98, passed
9-8-1998; Ord. 8-2006, passed 4-3-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1),(2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the City Clerk shall include, but
are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used; and
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government, a list containing current city
information including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the correct name, telephone number
and electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who
are serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January
1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall and
telephone number of the City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance;
      (6)   Once the information required to be reported under division (B)(4)
of this section is compiled by the Department for Local Government, the
Department shall forward one electronic copy of the compiled information to the
Legislative Research Commission (KRS 83A.085); and
      (7)   The City Clerk shall attend all meetings of the City Council, both
regular and special, and shall take minutes of the proceedings to be kept in a
minute book in the City Hall. The City Clerk shall record all votes of the City
Council members in the minute book and shall publish all ordinances passed by
the City Council and have such other powers and perform such other duties as
may be prescribed by the City Council, the Mayor, by statute or by personnel
policy passed by the City Council.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall take the oath set forth in § 228 of the Kentucky
Constitution.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall execute an official bond in favor of the city in
the amount of $10,000.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall be paid an annual salary as passed in the annual
budget ordinance for the city.
(Ord. 10-82, passed 6-21-1982; Ord. 19-97, passed 10-8-1997)
§ 31.37 DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   The Deputy Clerk shall have all of the duties of the Clerk and shall
attend the City Council meetings in the Clerk’s absence.
   (B)   The Deputy Clerk shall take the oath set forth in § 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution.
   (C)   The Deputy Clerk shall execute an official bond in favor of the city
in the amount of $10,000.
   (D)   The Deputy Clerk shall be paid an annual salary as passed in the
annual budget ordinance for the city.
(Ord. 19-97, passed 10-8-1997)
§ 31.38 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of City Attorney.
   (B)   The City Attorney shall be appointed for a two-year term by
recommendation of the Mayor with approval of the City Council. The Mayor shall
recommend a practicing attorney within Oldham County for appointment. The City
Attorney must be a member of the Kentucky Bar Association and either a resident
of the city or Oldham County. The City Attorney shall attend all meetings of
the City Council, advise it on all matters of litigation or legal proceedings,
and perform any other duties of a legal nature required by the Mayor or City
Council.
   (C)   The City Attorney shall take the oath set forth in § 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution.
   (D)   No bond is required of the City Attorney.
   (E)   The City Attorney shall be paid an annual salary as passed in the
annual budget ordinance for the city.
(Ord. 10-82, passed 6-21-1982; Ord. 19-97, passed 10-8-1997)
§ 31.39 TREASURER/BOOKKEEPER.
   (A)   The Treasurer/Bookkeeper shall have the charge of and custody of and
be responsible for all funds and securities of the city; and give receipts for
money due and payable to the city from any source whatsoever and deposit all
such monies in the name of the city in such banks, trust companies and other
depositories as shall be selected by the City Council; pay on behalf of the
city all obligations as shall be selected by the City Council and in general to
perform all duties incident to the office of City Treasurer/Bookkeeper and such
other duties as from time to time may be assigned to said Treasurer/Bookkeeper
by the City Council, the Mayor, by statute or the personnel policies adopted by
the City Council.
   (B)   The Treasurer/Bookkeeper shall also prepare and mail all tax bills of
the city; shall collect all taxes enacted by the City Council and account
therefore and in general perform all duties incident to the collection of taxes
with the city. The Treasurer/Bookkeeper is authorized to sue in the name of the
city to collect delinquent taxes.
   (C)   The office of Treasurer/Bookkeeper may be held by the same person as
holds the office of Clerk or Deputy Clerk.
   (D)   The Treasurer/Bookkeeper shall take the oath set forth in § 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution.
   (E)   The Treasurer/Bookkeeper shall execute an official bond in favor of
the city in the amount of $10,000.
   (F)   The Treasurer/Bookkeeper shall be paid an annual salary as passed in
the annual budget ordinance for the city.
(Ord. 19-97, passed 10-8-1997)
§ 31.40 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   For provisions concerning the Chief of Police, see §
35.016.
§ 31.41 DEPUTY CHIEF.
   For provisions concerning the Deputy Chief, see §
35.016(A).
§ 31.42 POLICE OFFICER.
   For provisions concerning police officers, see §
35.017.
§ 31.43 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the nonelected city office of Code Enforcement
Officer.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Enforce all city ordinances, including business licenses,
compensation and tax;
      (2)   Direct school traffic at LaGrange Elementary School;
      (3)   Perform patrol work of average difficulty;
      (4)   Issue citations for violations;
      (5)   Present violations to Code Enforcement Board for enforcement;
      (6)   Be responsible for assisting in traffic control, making accident
reports, enforcing moving, non-moving, parking and other violations by the
issuance of citations and similar type duties;
      (7)   Obey all legal orders of the Chief of Police, or ranking officer
and shall in general perform all duties assigned to him or her by the Chief of
Police or ranking officer or by the statutes of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
and
      (8)   Such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the City
Council, the Mayor, by statute or by the personnel policy passed by the City
Council.
   (C)   The Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall take the oath set forth in §
228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (D)   The Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall be paid an annual salary as
passed in the annual budget ordinance for the city.
(Ord. 15-98, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 31.44 CODE COMPLIANCE MEDIATOR.
   (A)   Office created. There is hereby created the nonelected city office of
Code Compliance Mediator.
   (B)   Powers and duties of Code Compliance Mediator.
      (1)   The Code Compliance Mediator shall have the following duties:
enforce all city ordinances including business licenses, nuisances, littering,
building and other code violations. The Code Compliance Mediator shall obey all
legal orders of the Mayor and shall, in general, perform all duties assigned to
him or her by the Mayor of the city code of ordinances. The Code Compliance
Mediator shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by the City Council, the Mayor, by statute, or by the personnel
policy passed by the City Council. The Code Compliance Mediator shall take the
oath set forth in § 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
      (2)   The Code Compliance Mediator shall be paid an hourly rate
consistent with the current rate being paid to the Code Enforcement Officer
position.
(Ord. 12-2007, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 31.45 HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of Human Resources Director.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Human Resources Director shall
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of all payroll and personnel records of
city employees; process payroll on a bi-weekly or monthly basis as the case may
be for all city employees, keeping of time records for hourly workers and
reports of salaried employees; monitor vacation and sick leave; set up banking
direct deposits, authorize Treasurer for processing of pay checks or direct
deposits; reconcile payroll accounts each month.
      (2)   Withhold all federal, state and local taxes from wages of city
employees, withdraw all premiums for health insurance and retirement benefits
directed by employees, and forward same to the appropriate division of
government and provider of benefits, oversight of payroll processing, monthly
and annual reporting of income for employees.
      (3)   Preparation and updating of employee handbook, distribution to
employees and explanation of benefits; establish job classifications, job
descriptions, competitive pay scales; spokesperson/ombudsman for employee
complaints and suggestions; handling of grievances and disciplinary matters at
the direction of the executive authority.
      (4)   Assist in preparation and keeping of annual or periodic reviews of
employees; keeping of confidential personal records, job performance, goals and
objectives, continuing education; primary point of contact for all employment
benefits, secondary point of contact for supervisor or managers concerning
personnel matters.
   (C)   The Human Resources Director shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council and shall take the oath set out in § 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution.
   (D)   No bond shall be required of the Human Resources Director.
   (E)   The Human Resources Director shall be paid an annual salary as passed
in the annual budget ordinance for the city.
(Ord. 6-2023, passed 5-1-2023)
§ 31.46 FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of Finance Director.
   (B)   The responsibilities and duties of the Finance Director shall include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Overall responsibility of the Finance Director shall be to account
for and control the city’s Financial Department; to oversee all financial
operations of the city; to ensure the Department reports and other financial
assets are reconciled and in good standing; to provide financial advice for
sound investment decisions relating to public funds, including industrial
revenue bonds and economic development; to develop strategies to assess,
manage, and minimize potential financial risks of public funds or employee
retirement accounts; to provide financial reports and analyses for financial
performance on city and special investments projects; to build rapport with
other department heads and local government agencies; to provide research and
tax advice for department heads; to review statistics and make forecasts and
projections to help department heads build more comprehensive budgets; to work
independently as well as in a team oriented environment, with strong written
and verbal communication skills essential and appropriate for professional
position.
      (2)   Duties of the Finance Director shall be as follows:
         (a)   Manages and oversees the overall accounting functions of the
city.
         (b)   Supervises, schedules, and evaluates day-to-day activities of
departmental staff.
         (c)   Maintains full integrity of all revenues, ensuring compliance
with the city policies and procedures, as well federal, state, and local laws
and regulations.
         (d)   Compiles fiscal estimates and prepares fiscal reports as
requested including monthly and annual financial statements and audit reports.
         (e)   Ensures compliance with generally accepted government accounting
procedures through observation, supervision, and testing, cooperates fully with
annual audit.
         (f)   Monitors the performance of investments including creation of
reports.
         (g)   Analyzes trends to reduce financial risks associated with making
investment or spending decisions.
         (h)   Maintains strong understanding of current fiscal policy and
investment regulations.
         (i)   Responsible for managing the overall cash flow of the city.
         (j)   Oversees the preparation of city tax reports and payments.
         (k)   Offers advice to the Mayor regarding spending, budget and audit
issues.
         (l)   Aids the Mayor as required in assembling city’s annual budget
and reports.
         (m)   Supports and manages the city’s bi-weekly payroll process,
accounts receivable, accounts payable, collection of city revenue, and
reconciliation of all accounts.
   (C)   The Finance Director shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval
of the City Council, and shall take the oath as required in § 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution.
   (D)   No bond shall be required of the Finance Director.
   (E)   The Finance Director shall be paid an annual salary as passed in the
annual budget ordinance for the city.
(Ord. 18-2023, passed 10-2-2023)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as presiding officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by City Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
   
32.49   Methods of voting at City Council meetings
City Officials Training Program
   
32.60   Definitions
   
32.61   Adoption of a city officials training program; application
   
32.62   Incentive payment amount; required training participation
   
32.63   Policy regarding payment or reimbursement for training courses
   
32.64   Administration of city officials training program
   
32.65   Status of incentive payments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Council member shall be elected at
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Council
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on January 1 following the election and shall
be for two years, except as provided by KRS 83A.050.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.03.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)    No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s
electronic mail address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of
the City Council occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter
of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the City Council occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs on the City Council
which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City
Council or the Governor, whichever is designated to make the appointment, shall
immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State
of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175 
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the elected Council of the city. The Council shall not perform any executive
functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules and
regulations for the public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council shall have the right to investigate all activities of city
government. The Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and
submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official
duties. Any statement required by the Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department or agency
under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or
undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to
the Mayor. The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council
and to appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of any
department, office or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council may
set, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number may be selected to
preside at meetings of the Council in place of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5))
Cross-reference:
   Council’s responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The regular City Council meeting shall be conducted on the first
Monday night of each month unless a holiday shall fall on a regular meeting
night, at which time the meeting shall be held on the next regular weekday
which is not a holiday. The meeting shall begin at 6:30 p.m. in the LaGrange
City Hall Building, 37 West Jefferson Street, LaGrange, Kentucky.
      (2)   All regular meetings of public agencies, boards and any committees
or subcommittees of the city shall be held on recurring dates, times and places
with notice made available to the public by alternative internet or newspaper
advertisements in accordance with KRS 424.145 considering space requirements,
seating capacity and acoustics. Publication will be deemed to have occurred on
the date that the advertisement is posted on the city’s website.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting, no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under § 
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (Ord. 12-83, passed 8-15-1983; Ord. 8-87, passed 10-5-1987;
Ord. 9-2003, passed 12-1-2003; Ord. 15-2013, passed 8-5-2013; Ord. 24-2013,
passed 1-6-2014; Ord. 9-2022, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause, styled: “Be it ordained by the City of LaGrange”.
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket or by strike-through with redline for new
text. The text between the brackets shall be stricken through with a single
solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
(KRS 83A.060(4))
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication to provide for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(7))
   (C)   Second readings of ordinances, including public hearings, are only to
be held at regularly scheduled City Council meetings. If it is determined, by a
majority vote of the City Council, that such second reading and public hearing
is an urgent situation, then an exception may exist, allowing said second
reading and public hearing to occur at a special meeting of the City Council.
(Ord. 11-2006, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the Council within ten days after receiving it or
unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon reconsideration of
the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its return,
by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council shall be made a part of the permanent
records of the city, and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(B) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years; and
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and indexed in a composite index or
maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)(a), (b))
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
Council. If the Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the summary
shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law in the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads in
lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city shall not
lessen or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute
relating to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   At least once every five years, the city shall cause all ordinances in this
code of ordinances to be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and to be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and may be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
(KRS 83A.060(12))
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, a municipal order may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions and
other agencies over which the city has control.
(KRS 83A.060(13))
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CITY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Council members shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
§ 32.49 METHODS OF VOTING AT CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   All votes cast by City Council members relating to ordinances and
resolutions shall be by “roll call” vote, with each Council member verbally
stating they are voting for, against or abstaining from the vote. Any votes
relating to ordinances and resolutions taken by voice, show of the hands or by
any other method other than roll call vote, shall effectively make said vote
null and void.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 4-3-2006)
CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING PROGRAM
§ 32.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Human Resources Director for the City of LaGrange.
   EXCESS HOURS. Credit hours earned beyond 15 during a single calendar year.
   QUALIFYING COURSE. Any training, seminar, educational or learning event that
provides instruction or information that is relevant to the duties and
functions of city government and city officials and that has been approved by
the Administrator.
   TRAINING UNIT. Fifteen clock hours of attendance or participation in
qualifying courses during a calendar year.
(Ord. 5-2023, passed 5-1-2023)
§ 32.61 ADOPTION OF A CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING PROGRAM; APPLICATION.
   In accordance with KRS Chapter 64, the city hereby adopts and establishes a
City Officials Training Program to make available incentive payments as
specified by this subchapter to the elected city officials, including the Mayor
and all members of the City Commission for obtaining education and training as
required under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 5-2023, passed 5-1-2023)
§ 32.62 INCENTIVE PAYMENT AMOUNT; REQUIRED TRAINING PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Each city official eligible for participation in the City Officials
Training Program shall receive training incentive payments of $500 for
completion of each training unit during his or her continuous service as a city
official within the city. The training incentive payment shall be awarded to
the city official for the completion of a training unit during the calendar
year. The training incentive payment awarded shall be the base training
incentive payment multiplied by the training incentive multiplier earned by the
city official. The city official shall accumulate no more than one training
incentive multiplier per calendar year of continuous service and in which the
said city official completes a training unit, up to a maximum of four training
incentive multipliers. The city official shall not be paid more than one
training unit per calendar year multiplied by the applicable training incentive
multiplier.
   (B)   The city official may continue to receive training incentive payments
for four training units (such as, one training unit multiplied by four training
incentive multipliers) in each calendar year following the fourth year,
provided that the official continues to earn a training unit each subsequent
calendar year.
   (C)   The failure of a city official to obtain a training unit during any
calendar year shall disqualify the official from receiving any training
incentive payments for the calendar year and the city official shall lose any
previously accumulated training units earned during previous calendar years and
said official’s training incentive multiplier shall be reset to one the
following year.
   (D)   Any city official earning excess hours during a calendar year shall be
permitted to carry forward a maximum of 15 hours to apply to the earning of a
training unit in the following calendar year.
   (E)   Training incentive payments shall be made to a city official
presenting proof of completion of a training unit for a calendar year not later
than 60 days after presenting said proof to the Mayor (or other designated
official).
(Ord. 5-2023, passed 5-1-2023)
§ 32.63 POLICY REGARDING PAYMENT OR REIMBURSEMENT FOR TRAINING COURSES.
   Subject to the constraints and the appropriations established by the city’s
annual budget, the city shall consider paying the cost of attendance or
participation in advance of a city official’s attendance or participation in
the qualifying course if proper application is made to the Mayor (or other
designated official responsible for budget administration). Alternatively, and
subject to the constraints and appropriations established by the city’s annual
budget, the city shall consider reimbursing a city official for the cost of
attendance or participation in a qualifying course upon presentation of proof
to the Mayor (or other designated official responsible for budget
administration) that the official has received credit for the course.
(Ord. 5-2023, passed 5-1-2023)
§ 32.64 ADMINISTRATION OF CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING PROGRAM.
   (A)   The City Officials Training Program for the city shall be administered
by the Human Resources Director. The Administrator shall be responsible for
approving courses as qualifying under the terms of this subchapter, shall
maintain records of attendance and participation, and shall notify the City
Clerk when a city official earns a training unit and is entitled to payment for
the number of training units earned during his or her continuous service as a
city official within the city.
   (B)   The Administrator shall evaluate and approve courses as qualifying for
credit based on the relation of the course to the operation of city government.
In addition to other courses which may be approved as qualifying courses by the
Administrator, courses that provide instruction on the statutory duties of
cities and city officials, intergovernmental relationships, municipal finance
and budgeting, municipal taxation, ethics, open records, open meetings,
economic development, or municipal police powers shall be approved as
qualifying courses under this subchapter. The Administrator shall require the
submission of the course or conference agenda, curriculum, name of the
provider, and other course materials to determine whether a course should be
approved as a qualifying course.
   (C)   A city official shall submit proof of attendance or participation in a
qualifying course to the Administrator. A city official shall submit the course
name, date, location, name of the instructor or provider, and sufficient proof
of attendance or participation in the qualifying course before the
Administrator shall award credit. The Administrator shall not award credit to a
city official for attendance or participation in a qualifying course that is
not, in the Administrator’s opinion, substantially different from another
course the city official attended or participated in during the same calendar
year.
   (D)   The Administrator shall maintain records that reflect each of the
courses and hours completed by the city official and shall provide it to each
city official upon request. The Administrator shall, within 30 days of the
close of the calendar year, provide written or electronic certification to each
participating city official of completed courses and hours, and shall, if
applicable, certify the completion of a training unit and total number of
accumulated training units. Upon receipt, a city official shall present a copy
of the certification of the completion of the training unit and the total
accumulated training units to the city in order to receive his or her training
incentive payments.
(Ord. 5-2023, passed 5-1-2023)
§ 32.65 STATUS OF INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Training incentive payments do not constitute wages or creditable
compensation for the purposes of setting pension or retirement benefits under
KRS Chapter 83A and may be repealed or modified by the city at any time.
   (B)   The training incentive payment amount established in the ordinance
shall not be adjusted by any index reporting changes to consumer prices or any
other method to account for inflation.
(Ord. 5-2023, passed 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Financing of improvements
   
33.22   Apportionment of cost
   
33.23   Comprehensive report required
   
33.24   Public hearing required
   
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.26   Affected owner may contest
   
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Investment Policy
   
33.40   Investment policy
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year, and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No monies shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in a form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   Beginning in the 1999-2000 fiscal year and each year thereafter, the
budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted to Council at
least 15 calendar days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it covers,
either at the regularly scheduled City Council meeting or a duly called special
meeting and the final passage of the budget. The budget message shall contain
an explanation of the governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming
fiscal year; explain important features of the activities anticipated in the
budget; set forth the reasons for stated changes from the previous year in
program goals, programs and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes
in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate
or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any extent,
beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030) (Ord. 14-98, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) to (D) of this section, the city
shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be
audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The
audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the
Department for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April
1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   In lieu of the annual audit requirements in division (A) of this
section, a city with a population equal to or less than 1,000 based upon the
most recent federal decennial census may elect to have an audit performed every
other fiscal year in the following manner:
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
for that odd-numbered year cause each fund of the city to be audited by the
Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audits shall
be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year to be audited.
The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the Department
for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April 1
immediately following the fiscal year being audited; and
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (C)   In lieu of the annual audit requirements in division (A) of this
section, a city with a population of more than 1,000 but less than 2,000 based
upon the most recent federal decennial census may elect to have an audit
performed every other fiscal year to cover the two fiscal years occurring since
the prior audit in the following manner:
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
cause each fund of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or
a certified public accountant. The audit shall include both fiscal years since
the prior audit and shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the
fiscal years to be audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the
audit report to the Department for Local Government for information purposes by
no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal years being audited; and
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (D)   Any city, which for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than $150,000, and which has no long-term
debt, whether general obligation or revenue debt, shall not be required to
audit each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. In addition, each
city exempted in accordance with this division (D) shall:
      (1)   Annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220 and shall, not later than October 1 following the conclusion of the
fiscal year, forward one electronic or paper copy to the Department for Local
Government for information purposes; and
      (2)   If exempted under this division (D) for more than four consecutive
fiscal years after July 1, 2022, have prepared an attestation engagement
covering the fourth fiscal year in which the city qualified for an exemption
under this division (D). An attestation engagement completed pursuant to this
division (D) shall be:
         (a)   Prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by the
Auditor of Public Accounts pursuant to a contract with the city using generally
accepted attestation standards as promulgated by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants and any additional procedures established by the
Department for Local Government through administrative regulation;
         (b)   Completed by no later than March 1 immediately following the
conclusion of the fiscal year in which in the attestation engagement is
required;
         (c)   Submitted to the Department for Local Government as one
electronic copy no later than April 1 after its completion;
         (d)   Advertised to the public within 30 days of its completion by
causing the publication of a legal display advertisement of not less than six
column inches in a newspaper qualified under KRS 424.120 stating that the
attestation has been prepared and copies have been provided to each local
newspaper of general circulation, each news service, and each local radio and
television station which has on file with the city a written request to receive
copies of financial statements under KRS 424.220. Any city advertising under
this division (D)(2)(d) shall be exempt from publishing its financial statement
under KRS 424.220(6)(b) for any year in which it is required to have an
attestation engagement completed; and
         (e)   Provided to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request for
review of the final report and all related work papers and documents regarding
the attestation engagement.
   (E)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.    
   (F)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual audit or biennial report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the City Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon request.
   (G)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (H)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the City Council, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS Chapter 424,
containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds,” which shall
include the General Fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (I)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city or owner of real property within the city. The costs of
all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident
bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful party.
   (J)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in divisions (A) to (D) of this section, the city
may submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department for
Local Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local Government.
The Department for Local Government shall approve the request if it is
submitted on or before the applicable deadline and, in the judgment of the
Department for Local Government, the request is warranted by extenuating
circumstances beyond the control of the city. Extensions granted under this
division (J) shall not exceed nine months from the original due date of the
audit or financial statement. If the Department for Local Government approves
an extension for a city and the city fails to complete and submit the required
audit or financial statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then
the provisions of division (K) of this section shall apply.
   (K)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in divisions (A) to (D)
and (J) of this section, the Department for Local Government shall notify the
Finance and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the
audit requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall immediately
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements of divisions (A) to (D) and (K) of this section for all prior
fiscal years it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this
section, and the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the
reinstatement of payments to the city, including any funds that were withheld
due to the noncompliance.
   (L)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including, but not limited to, travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all the properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all the properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all the property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Chapter 107
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government or any educational, religious or charitable organization. Council
may assess the property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish the ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.25, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution shall be final and binding with respect to the
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26, or after favorable final judgment in the action, whichever comes later,
the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the action,
including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment thereon
and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The first
installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment,
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.23 through
33.27 apply if additional property is included in the improvement or if change
is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property may be
included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof without
compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost apportioned to
any other property, or any other change may be made without this compliance, if
all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 33.40 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   The city hereby authorizes the Mayor to invest the city’s funds,
pursuant to the following terms and conditions:
      (1)   Funds not needed for current expenses may be invested in any of the
following:
         (a)   Obligations of the United States and of its agencies and
instrumentalities, including obligations subject to repurchase agreements,
provided the delivery of these obligations subject to a repurchase agreement is
taken either directly or through an authorized custodian. The investments may
be accomplished through repurchase agreements reached with sources including,
but not limited to, national or state banks chartered by the Commonwealth of
Kentucky;
         (b)   Obligations and contracts for future delivery or purchase of
obligations backed by the full faith and credit of the United States or a
United States government agency, including, but not limited to, the United
States Treasury, Export-Import Bank of the United States, Farmer’s Home
Administration, Government National Mortgage Corporation and Merchant Marine
Bonds;
         (c)   Obligations of any corporation of the United States government,
including, but not limited to, Farmers Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, Federal
Farm Credit Banks, Bank of Cooperatives, Federal Intermediate Credit Banks,
Federal Home Loan Banks, Federal National Mortgage Association and Tennessee
Valley Authority;
         (d)   Certificates of deposit issued by or other interest bearing
accounts of any banks or savings and loan institute which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or which are
collateralized to the extent uninsured by any obligations permitted by KRS
41.240(4);
         (e)   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of this state and of its
agencies and instrumentalities; and
         (f)   Securities issued by a state or local government, or any
instrumentality or agency thereof in the United States, and rates in one of the
three highest categories by a nationally recognized rating agency.
      (2)   The city shall not purchase any investment on a margin basis or
through the use of any similar leveraging technique.
   (B)   The city hereby adopts the following procedures for monitoring
controls, deposit or retention of investments and collateral:
      (1)   The bank that the city invests with will be required to report
periodically the collateral they deposited over the FDIC amount they are
pledging;
      (2)   Working with the city’s investment advisor, the city should make
such determinations as to:
         (a)   How often a report will be received on the deposits;
         (b)   Where the deposits or investments will be physically located;
         (c)   Whether a third party custodian is desired or required for the
collateral; and
         (d)   Whether the city actually wants to take possession and control
of the investment security or if that will be left with the city’s bank/
trustee.
      (3)   The city should include any additional controls recommended by the
investment advisor or the city’s auditor.
(Ord. 13-95, passed 9-5-1995)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.22   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.23   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH AND PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE. A photograph or image
of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes when
the individual is booked into a detention facility as defined in KRS 520.010 or
photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099.
(KRS 61.870(9))
   CITY. The city government of LaGrange, Kentucky.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The official custodian or any department director having custody
and control of public records.
(KRS 61.870(6))
      (2)   The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of most of the public records
of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to, a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to, paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The chief administrative officer or any other officer or employee
of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care and keeping of
public records, regardless of whether the records are in his or her actual
personal custody and control.
(KRS 61.870(5))
      (2)   The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the City Clerk.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which, within any fiscal year, derives at least 50% of its
funds expended by it in the Commonwealth of Kentucky from state or local
authority funds. However, any funds derived from a state or local authority in
compensation for goods or services that are provided by a contract obtained
through a competitive procurement process shall not be included in the
determination of whether a body is a PUBLIC AGENCY under this definition;
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in this definition; by a member or employee of the
public agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created, and controlled by the Mayor; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in this definition.
(KRS 61.870(1))
   PUBLIC RECORD. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software or other official documentation regardless of
physical form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the
possession of and retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORD shall not
include any interlocutory or non-final decisions owned or maintained by or for
a body discussed in division (8) of the definition of PUBLIC AGENCY, above that
are not related to functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by
state or local authority.
(KRS 61.870(2))
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3))
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant
and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the application. A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the Open Records Law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
Statutory reference:
   Right to inspection, limitations, see KRS 61.872(1) through (3)
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time and earliest date on which
the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   Each public agency, upon any request for records made under this chapter,
shall determine within three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the request
and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the three-day
period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in part,
inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific exception
authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of how the
exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued by the
official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1))
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.22 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court shall
authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to civil
litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency, or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b)
of this section shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of
which is directed by statute;
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) of this section;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action; however, records or information compiled
and maintained by county attorneys or Commonwealth’s attorneys pertaining to
criminal investigations or criminal litigation shall be exempted from the
provisions of this chapter and shall remain exempted after enforcement action,
including litigation, is completed or a decision is made to take no action. The
exemptions provided by this division (A)(8) shall not be used by the custodian
of the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights granted by this
chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, emails, texts or correspondence with
employees or private individuals, other than correspondence which is intended
to give notice of final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation;
      (12)   Public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly;
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division (A)(13) through the disclosure of the location, configuration
or security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems.
These critical systems shall include, but not be limited to, information
technology, communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water,
wastewater, sewage and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A)(13): detailed drawings,
schematics, maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and
operating, utility or security systems of any building or facility owned,
occupied, leased or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division (A)(13) and that describe the exact physical
location of hazardous chemical, radiological or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(13), TERRORIST ACT means a criminal
act intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(13)(a)6.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division (A)(13), that public
agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to
in KRS 61.880(1), to the Executive Director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A)(13) shall affect the obligations of
a public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A)(13) shall not
apply when a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public
record identified in this division (A)(13) under the Open Records Law;
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a public
university, museum or government depository from a donor or depositor other
than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law;
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)    Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31;
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos;
      (18)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409; and
      (19)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
(KRS 61.878(1))
   (B)   (1)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
(KRS 61.878(2))
      (2)   In addition, if any public record contains material which is not
excepted under this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.18.
(KRS 61.878(4))
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878(5))
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge or
impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. These records
shall include, but not be limited to, work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant or eligible shall not have
the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878(3))
§ 34.23 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 34A: PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
34A.01   Definitions
Public Meeting Requirements
   
34A.15   Meetings open to the public
   
34A.16   Requirements for closed sessions
   
34A.17   Public meeting schedules
   
34A.18   Special meetings
   
34A.19   Video teleconferences
   
34A.20   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34A.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION TAKEN. A collective decision, a commitment or promise to make a
positive or negative decision, or an actual vote by a majority of the members
of the governmental body.
(KRS 61.805(3))
   MEETING. All gatherings of every kind, including video teleconferences,
regardless of where the meeting is held, and whether regular or special and
informational or casual gatherings held in anticipation of or in conjunction
with a regular or special meeting.
(KRS 61.805(1))
   MEMBER. A member of the governing body of a public agency. MEMBER does not
include employees or licensees of the agency.
(KRS 61.805(4))
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Every city government board, commission and authority; every
city council and council board, commission and committee; every school district
board, special district board and municipal corporation; every city government
agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of education
created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance,
resolution or other legislative act; any body created by or pursuant to state
or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution or other legislative
act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any entity when the
majority of its governing body is appointed by a PUBLIC AGENCY, as defined by
this section; a member or employee of a PUBLIC AGENCY, a state or local
officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission, committee,
subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or agency, except
for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee formed for the
purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency employees,
established, created, or controlled by a PUBLIC AGENCY as defined in this
section; an interagency body of two or more public agencies where each PUBLIC
AGENCY is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.805(2))
   VIDEO TELECONFERENCE. One meeting, occurring in two or more locations, where
individuals can see and hear each other by means of video and audio equipment.
(KRS 61.805(5))
PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
§ 34A.15 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   All meetings of a quorum of the members of any public agency at which
any public business is discussed or at which any action is taken by the agency,
shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times, except for the
following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property by
a public agency, but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of
a specific piece of property to be acquired for public use or sold by a public
agency;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the public agency;
      (3)   Collective bargaining negotiations between public employers and
their employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline or dismissal of an individual employee, member or student without
restricting that employee's, member's or student's right to a public hearing if
requested. This exception shall not be interpreted to permit discussion of
general personnel matters in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
      (7)   Deliberations of judicial or quasi-judicial bodies regarding
individual adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved,
his or her representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the
agency's governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of
planning commissions, zoning commissions or boards of adjustment;
      (8)   That portion of a meeting devoted to a discussion of a specific
public record exempted from disclosure under KRS 61.878(1)(m). However, that
portion of any public agency meeting shall not be closed to a member of the
Kentucky General Assembly;
      (9)   Meetings which federal or state law specifically require to be
conducted in privacy;
      (10)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret;
and
      (11)   Meetings of any selection committee, evaluation committee, or
other similar group established under KRS Chapter 45A or 56 or other state or
local law, to select a successful bidder for award of a state or local
contract.
   (B)   Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending
one or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of the
members of the public agency and where the meetings are held for the purpose of
avoiding the requirements of division (A) of this section, shall be subject to
the requirements of division (A) of this section. Nothing in this division (B)
shall be construed to prohibit discussion between individual members where the
purpose of the discussions is to educate the members on specific issues.
(KRS 61.810(1)(b), (c), (e) - (h), (j) - (n), (2))
§ 34A.16 REQUIREMENTS FOR CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting
closed sessions by those public agencies authorized by §
34A.15(A)(1) and (A)(4) except as (A)(4) relates to students:
      (1)   Notice shall be given in regular open meetings of the general
nature of the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for the
closed session, and the specific provision of §
34A.15 authorizing the closed session;
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and carried
by a majority vote in open, public session;
      (3)   No final action may be taken in closed session; and
      (4)   No matters may be discussed at a closed session other than those
publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
   (B)   Public agencies and activities identified in §
34A.15(A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), but only so far as (A)(4) relates to students,
(A)(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8) and (9) are excluded from the requirements of
division (A) of this section.
(KRS 61.815)
§ 34A.17 PUBLIC MEETING SCHEDULES.
   All meetings of a public agency shall be held at specified times and places
which are convenient to the public, and all public agencies shall provide for a
schedule of regular meetings by ordinance, order, resolution, by laws or by
whatever other means may be required for the conduct of business of the public
agency. The schedule of regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
(KRS 61.820)
§ 34A.18 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided by division (F) of this section, special meetings
shall be held in accordance with the provisions of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
of this section.
   (B)   The presiding officer or a majority of the members of the public
agency may call a special meeting.
   (C)   The public agency shall provide written notice of the special meeting
containing the date, time, place of the special meeting and the agenda.
Discussions and action at the meeting shall be limited to items listed on the
agenda in the notice. Second readings and public hearings may only be heard at
special meetings if good cause is shown to reschedule the regular meeting and
proper notice is given.
   (D)   (1)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered
personally, transmitted by facsimile, or mailed to every member of the public
agency as well as each media organization which has filed a written request,
including a mailing address, to receive notice of special meetings. The notice
shall be received at least 24 hours before the special meeting. The public
agency may periodically, but no more often than once in a calendar year, inform
media organizations that they will have to submit a new written request or no
longer receive written notice of special meetings until a new written request
is filed.
      (2)   A public agency may satisfy the requirements of division (D)(1) of
this section by transmitting the written notice by electronic mail to public
agency members and media organizations that have filed a written request with
the public agency indicating their preference to receive electronic mail
notification in lieu of notice by personal delivery, facsimile machine or mail.
The written request shall include the electronic mail address or addresses of
the agency member or media organization.
   (E)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
agency. The notice shall be posted at least 24 hours before the special
meeting.
   (F)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with the notice
requirements in this section, this division (F) shall govern a public agency’s
conduct of a special meeting. The special meeting shall be called pursuant to
division (B) of this section. The public agency shall make a reasonable effort,
under emergency circumstances, to notify the members of the agency, media
organizations which have filed a written request pursuant to this section, and
the public of the emergency meeting. At the beginning of the emergency meeting,
the person chairing the meeting shall briefly describe for the record the
emergency circumstances preventing compliance with the notice requirements of
this section. These comments shall appear in the minutes. Discussion and action
at the emergency meeting shall be limited to the emergency for which the
meeting is called.
(KRS 61.823)
§ 34A.19 VIDEO TELECONFERENCES.
   (A)   A public agency may conduct any meeting, other than a closed session,
through video teleconference.
   (B)   Notice of a video teleconference shall:
      (1)   Comply with the requirements of KRS 61.820 or 61.823 as
appropriate;
      (2)   Clearly state that the meeting will be a video teleconference; and
      (3)   Provide specific information on how any member of the public or
media organization may view the meeting electronically; and
      (4)   In any case where the public agency has elected to provide a
physical location, or in any circumstances where two or more members of the
public agency are attending a video teleconference meeting from the same
physical location, precisely identify a primary physical location of the video
teleconference where all members can be seen and heard and the public may
attend in accordance with KRS 61.840.
   (C)   The same procedure with regard to participation, distribution of
materials and other matters shall apply in all video teleconference locations.
Members of the public agency who participate in a video teleconference shall
remain visible on camera at all times that business is being discussed.
   (D)   Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast of a video
teleconference at any location shall result in the suspension of the video
teleconference until the broadcast is restored.
   (E)   If a regular meeting is changed to a video conference, the meeting
shall remain a regular meeting if the meeting occurs on the same date and time
as originally scheduled and the public agency follows the provisions of KRS
61.823(4) to provide a notice that meets the requirements of divisions (B)(2)
through (B)(4) above.
(KRS 61.826)
§ 34A.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 61.846 and
61.848 for enforcing KRS 61.805 to 61.850.
Cross-reference:
   Rules of Procedure, see §§
32.20 through
32.22
CHAPTER 35: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Board of Adjustments and Appeals
   
35.001   Establishment
Police Department
   
35.015   Establishment
   
35.016   Police Chief
   
35.016A   Deputy Chief
   
35.017   Police officer
   
35.018   Adoption of Operations and Guidelines Manual
   
35.019   Domestic violence
   
35.020   Operating procedures
Utilities Commission
   
35.035   Establishment
City Ethics Commission
   
35.050   Establishment
Tree Board
   
35.065   Establishment
Tourist and Convention Commission
   
35.080   Definitions
   
35.081   Creation of Commission
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS
§ 35.001 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Adjustments and Appeals, see
Chapter 151.
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.015 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Police Department in the city.
   (B)   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and regular
police officers as may be authorized by the City Council.
   (C)   The Police Chief and all police officers shall be appointed by the
Mayor at will, and may be removed by the Mayor at will except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance or contract.
   (D)   The Police Department of the city and each officer thereof shall
comply with all reasonable rules and regulations issued by the Kentucky Crime
Commission to facilitate the administration of the Kentucky Law Enforcement
Foundation Program Fund and shall further the purposes of KRS 15.410 through
15.510.
(Ord. 582-73, passed 3-5-1973)
§ 35.016 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   Police Chief. The Chief of Police shall be in charge of the Police
Department and in general perform all duties incident to the office of Chief of
Police and shall be answerable only to the City Council and the Mayor. He or
she shall recommend the appointment of police officers to the Mayor and shall
have all authority granted law enforcement officers by the statutes of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and the personnel policies adopted by the City
Council.
   (B)   Oath. The Chief of Police shall take the oath set forth in § 228 of
the Kentucky Constitution and the additional oath set forth in KRS 62.040.
   (C)   Bond. The Chief of Police shall execute an official bond in favor of
the city in the amount of $2,500.
   (D)   Salary. The Chief of Police shall be paid an annual salary as passed
in the annual budget ordinance for the city.
(Ord. 10-82, passed 6-21-1982; Ord. 19-97, passed 10-8-1997)
§ 35.016A DEPUTY CHIEF.
   (A)   (1)   The Deputy Chief shall be second in command of the Police
Department behind the Chief of Police and shall be in charge of the Police
Department in the absence of the Chief and, in general, perform all duties
incident to the office of Deputy Chief and shall be answerable only to the
Chief of Police, the City Council and the Mayor.
      (2)   The Deputy Chief shall have all authority granted law enforcement
officers by the statutes of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the personnel
policies adopted by the City Council.
   (B)   The Deputy Chief shall take the oath set forth in § 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution and the additional oath set forth in KRS 62.040.
   (C)   The Deputy Chief shall execute an official bond in favor of the city
in the amount of $2,500.
   (D)   The Deputy Chief shall be paid an annual salary as passed in the
annual budget ordinance for the city.
(Ord. 19-97, passed 10-8-1997)
§ 35.017 POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   The police officer shall have all authority granted law enforcement
officers by the statutes of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the personnel
policies adopted by the City Council. Police officers shall obey all legal
orders of the Chief of Police, Deputy Chief or ranking officer and shall, in
general, perform all duties assigned to them by the Chief of Police or by the
statutes of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (B)   The police officer shall take the oath set forth in § 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution and the additional oath set forth in KRS 62.040.
   (C)   The police officers shall execute an official bond in favor of the
city in the amount of $2,000.
   (D)   Police officers shall be paid an annual salary as passed in the annual
budget ordinance for the city.
(Ord. 10-82, passed 6-21-1982; Ord. 19-97, passed 10-8-1997)
§ 35.018 ADOPTION OF OPERATIONS AND GUIDELINES MANUAL.
   The city hereby adopts an Operations and Guidelines Manual for the Police
Department. The ordinance is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as if fully set out.
(Ord. 3-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 19-2000, passed 1-2-2001; Ord. 5-2001,
passed 6-4-2001)
§ 35.019 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   The city does hereby adopt the following statement of policy for
domestic violence to be utilized by the City Police Department in responding to
domestic violence complaints and calls.
   (B)   It is the policy of the Police Department to recognize domestic
violence as a crime and to provide all domestic violence calls with a high
priority response. In determining the appropriate course of action in domestic
abuse cases, the primary concern of the officer is the protection of all from
further acts of abuse.
   (C)   It is the policy of the Police Department to effect arrest as the
preferred response to domestic violence crime. The Police Department will
actively utilize the arrest powers granted by the Kentucky General Assembly
when the elements of an offense are present.
   (D)   It is the policy of the City Police Department to report all known or
suspected cases of domestic violence and abuse (both adult/child) to the local
Cabinet for Human Resources, Department for Social Services, within 48 hours
regardless of whether or not an arrest is made or a complaint taken. The JC-3
(child abuse, childhood sexual assault or abuse as defined in KRS 413.249,
adult abuse, and domestic abuse standard report) shall be completed and copies
forwarded with all pertinent reporting information to the agency’s central
records and the local Department for Social Services.
(KRS 209.030(2); KRS 620.030(2); KRS 403.785(1); KRS 15A.190)
   (E)   It is the policy of the City Police Department to respond with the
same protection and sanctions for every domestic violence incident including
cases involving law enforcement officers, public officials and prominent
citizens.
   (F)   It is the policy of the City Police Department that all law
enforcement officers of the Department shall be required to complete Kentucky
Law Enforcement Counsel/Approved Training in domestic violence issues.
(KRS 403.785(2))
(Ord. 3-91, passed 5-6-1991)
§ 35.020 OPERATING PROCEDURES.
   The standard operating procedures which are attached to the ordinance
codified herein and incorporated herein by reference as if stated in full, are
hereby adopted as the standard operating procedures which will govern the
Police Department of the City of LaGrange, Kentucky, henceforth. Any policy or
procedure previously enacted into law by the city which is in conflict with the
same is hereby repealed in full. Any policy or procedure previously enacted
into law by the city which is not in conflict with the same is hereby ratified.
(Ord. 16-2011, passed 12-5-2011)
UTILITIES COMMISSION
§ 35.035 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Utility Commission, see
Chapter 50.
CITY ETHICS COMMISSION
§ 35.050 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the City Ethics Commission, see
Chapter 39.
TREE BOARD
§ 35.065 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Tree Board, see
Chapter 97.
TOURIST AND CONVENTION COMMISSION
§ 35.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of LaGrange, Kentucky.
   COUNTY. Oldham County, Kentucky.
   TRANSIENT ROOM. Any room, set of rooms, suite, apartment, residence, or
other housing unit that is rented or occupied for compensation by any person or
organization for less than 30 consecutive days.
(Ord. 11-2019, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 35.081 CREATION OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 91A.350 there is hereby created the LaGrange Tourist
and Convention Commission, which is established for the purpose of promoting
tourist and convention activity in the City of LaGrange, a home rule class city
under the provisions of KRS 82.082 et seq.
   (B)   The Commission shall be composed of seven members, who shall serve
without compensation, who shall be citizens residing in the city or persons
employed at any of the accommodation businesses located in the city, to be
appointed by the Mayor of the city, with approval of the City Council, as
follows:
      (1)   Three Commissioners from a list of not less than six names
submitted by the local hotel and motel association or associations operating
within the city; but if there is no local hotel or motel association, the Mayor
shall appoint persons to represent their interests;
      (2)   One Commissioner from a list of not less than two names submitted
by the local restaurant association or associations operating within the city;
but if there is no local restaurant association, the Mayor shall appoint a
person to represent their interests;
      (3)   One Commissioner from a list of not less than two names submitted
by the Oldham County Chamber of Commerce; and
      (4)   Two Commissioners selected at large by the Mayor of LaGrange.
   (C)   A Commissioner may be removed by the Mayor according to the provisions
of KRS 65.007. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner that original
appointments are made.
   (D)   The Commissioners shall be appointed for terms of three years with
staggered terms.
   (E)   The Commission shall annually elect from its membership a Chairperson,
a Secretary and a Clerk, and may employ personnel and make contracts as are
necessary to effectively carry out the purposes of KRS 91A.350, 91A.360 and
91A.390, which are adopted as a part hereof by reference. These contracts may
include, but shall not be limited to, the procurement of promotional services,
advertising services and other services and materials relating to the promotion
of tourist and convention business; provided, contracts of the type enumerated
shall be made only with persons, organizations and firms with experience and
qualifications for providing promotional services and materials such as
advertising firms, the Chamber of Commerce, publishers and printers.
   (F)   The Commission shall meet monthly in regular session at such publicly
accessible locations in the city as the Commission members shall determine. The
Commission may call other meetings at such times and public locations as are
necessary to transact its business. Special meetings may be called by the
Chairperson or by written call of any two Commissioners. A majority of the
membership of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for transacting
business. Notice to the city and the public of the time and place of the
meetings shall be in conformity with applicable state statutes and city
ordinances.
   (G)   The books of the Commission shall be audited annually in conformity
with KRS 91A.360(5) and 65A.030.
   (H)   The Commission shall annually adopt a budget conforming with the
requirements established under KRS 65A.020 and submit the budget to the city
for approval. All monies received by the Commission shall be expended to
promote tourism and convention business in accordance with the provisions
stated in the budget. Within 60 days after the close of each fiscal year, the
Commission shall publish in conformity with KRS Chapter 424 the location where
the adopted budget, financial statements, and most recent audit or attestation
engagement reports may be examined by the public.
   (I)   For the purpose of promoting tourism activities and convention
business in the city, there is hereby imposed and levied a transient room tax
of 3% of gross rent in accordance with division (J) of this section. Pursuant
to KRS 91A.390(3), a portion of the monies collected from the imposition of
this room tax, as approved by the City Council, upon the advice and consent of
the Commission, may be used to finance the cost of acquisition, construction,
operation and maintenance of facilities useful in the attraction and promotion
of tourist activities and convention business, including projects described in
KRS 154.30-050(2)(a).
   (J)   In accordance with KRS 91A.390(1), every person, company, corporation
or other like or similar persons, groups, legal entities or organizations doing
business as motels, hotels, inns, lodges, cabins, bed-and-breakfast,
guesthouses, hostels, boarding rooms, farm houses or similar short-term rental
properties or other accommodation businesses located in the city, shall pay on
a monthly basis to the City Clerk, a transient room tax of 3% of the gross rent
charged for every occupancy of a suite, room, rooms or other accommodations
collected by them each month, exclusive of any state or county taxes. Such tax
shall be due and payable to the City Clerk on or before the fifteenth day of
the month following the end of the month in which the rental was collected,
along with a signed report, setting forth the aggregate amount of gross rentals
charged and collected during the preceding month for each occupancy, together
with such pertinent information as the City Clerk or the Commission may
require.
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any tax imposed by this section which remains unpaid after it
becomes due, as set forth herein, shall have added to it a penalty of 10%
together with interest at the rate of 1% for each month of delinquency, or
fraction thereof, until paid.
      (2)   If a business fails to make a monthly report to the City Clerk,
when no tax is owed by the business for that month, the business shall be
notified by the City Clerk and given 30 days to file the report with the City
Clerk. Failure to timely respond shall result in a civil fine of up to $100 per
month or partial month in which the business fails to file the required
reports.
      (3)   Each business subject to this section is directed and required to
give the City Clerk or its duly authorized representative the means, facilities
and opportunity for an examination and investigation of the records of the
business for the purpose of determining if the business has complied with the
reporting requirements of this section and paid the correct room tax.
   (L)   Any person or organization who shall knowingly file a false or
fraudulent report with the City Clerk as required herein, shall be in violation
of this chapter and may be issued civil fines and remedial orders by the Code
Enforcement Board, or referred to the Commonwealth for criminal prosecution,
including theft by failure to make the required disposition of the property
under the provisions of KRS 514.070 and related criminal statutes.
   (M)   The tax imposed by this section shall be in addition to other income
and property taxes collected by any government entity.
   (N)   On or before July 1 of each year, the Commission shall submit to the
Department of Local Government information required by KRS 65A.020 and shall
pay the annual fee due to the Department of Local Government.
   (O)   The Commission members, its officers and employees shall be subject to
the city’s Code of Ethics which governs the actions and conduct of the City
Council members and in conformity with KRS 65A.070. The Commission may
establish a more stringent Code of Ethics than that adopted by city and shall
notify the City Clerk of the action and comply with KRS 65A.070(2) by notifying
the Department of Local Government.
   (P)   The Commission shall register with the Department for Local Government
and provide such information as it may require.
   (Q)   The room tax received by the City Clerk shall be deposited into a
separate account, from the General Fund and other revenue collected. The City
Clerk shall report to the Commission the tax amount received each month from
tourism tax and shall make available on a confidential basis the amounts paid
by business as well as businesses having reported no tax owed.
(Ord. 11-2019, passed 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 35A: CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
Section
   
35A.01   Repeal; purpose and intent
   
35A.02   Definitions
   
35A.03   Code Enforcement Board; powers; classification of violation as civil
offense
   
35A.04   Board membership; term; reappointment; vacancy; removal; compensation
   
35A.05   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum; minutes; administrative
   
35A.06   Alternate Board members
   
35A.07   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
35A.08   Abatement and decontamination of methamphetamine contamination
   
35A.09   Enforcement proceedings; procedures
   
35A.10   Code Board hearing; notice; failure to appear; procedure; final order
   
35A.11   Hearing officer; duties; procedures; alternative procedure
   
35A.12   Appeals; final judgement
   
35A.13   Lien; recording; responsibility for fines, charges, and fees
   
35A.14   Immediate action to remedy violation of ordinances
   
35A.15   Short title for this chapter
§ 35A.01 REPEAL; PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   Ord. 20-2014, passed 12-1-2014, is hereby repealed and replaced with this
chapter having the same purpose and intent to protect, promote and improve the
health, safety and welfare of citizens residing within the City of La Grange,
Kentucky by means of an Administrative Board created pursuant to the provisions
of KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839 having the authority to issue remedial orders and
impose civil fines in order to provide an equitable, expeditious, effective and
inexpensive method of ensuring compliance with ordinances in the city or
affecting property within the city limits. This chapter is intended and shall
be construed to provide a streamlined means of obtaining compliance with city
ordinances and regulations affecting property, but nothing contained in this
chapter shall prohibit the enforcement of such ordinances by any other means
authorized by law.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 35A.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. The necessary and reasonable expenses for and associated
with the city having to provide corrective actions that the violator failed to
perform, including, but not limited to, clearing of debris, rubbish or junk,
preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all or a portion of a
structure or premises, mowing or trimming of grass or vegetation, or taking any
other action with regard to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a
violation and to maintain and preserve the public health, safety and welfare in
accordance with city ordinances and zoning regulations.
   ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS. The specified fee charged by the city for conducting
an administrative hearing before the Code Enforcement Board or other
administrative expenses incurred in cases requiring extraordinary services.
   CITY. The City of La Grange, Kentucky, also referred to as the local
government body under KRS 65.8801 through 65.8840.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. The administrative body created and acting under the
authority of this chapter, which was promulgated pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to
65.8840, to enforce the provisions of the city’s code of ordinances, as amended
from time to time.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The nonelected city official appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the City Council pursuant to §
31.35 of this code of ordinances to carry out the duty of enforcing city
ordinances and other duties enumerated under §
31.43, who shall perform all duties assigned by the Chief of Police, also
referred to as the Ordinance Enforcement Officer in §
31.43, the Enforcement Official in §
155.30, and the Citation Officer in KRS 83A.08. The CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
may delegate to any city or county police officer, sheriff, deputy sheriff,
safety officer or other public law enforcement officer the authority to issue
or serve citations.
   COUNTY. Oldham County, Kentucky.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board;
      (2)   Issued by an assigned hearing officer that is not appealed to the
Code Enforcement Board;
      (3)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within 14 days; and
      (4)   Created because of a failure of a violator to appear at a hearing
the violator requested to contest the citation.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   A condition or use of premises that:
         (a)   Is detrimental to the property of others or tends to cause
substantial diminution in the value of other properties in the community;
         (b)   Renders the property dangerous, or is detrimental or adverse to
health or welfare of residents in the community; or
         (c)   Is generally offensive to the public having no redeeming social
value.
      (2)   A nuisance shall have the meanings ascribed to the term in the
International_Property_Maintenance_Code adopted by Ord. 12-2019 passed 11-4-
2019, as codified in §§
155.15 and
155.16.
   OFFENDER. A person who commits a violation of an ordinance classified as a
civil offense, sometimes referred to as a violator as that term is used in this
chapter.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of the LaGrange City Council approved by the
Mayor which constitutes a regulation of a general and permanent nature and
enforceable as a law. The Code Enforcement Board is only authorized to enforce
ordinances the violation of which is a civil offense.
   ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW. A sight line within normal visual range by a person on
a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having title of or a legal interest in or management rights for real property
located within the City of LaGrange on which a violation has occurred.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot, parcel of land or real property, including any
structures or improvements thereon, where an alleged violation or civil offense
has occurred.
   UNSAFE BUILDINGS. Refers to the general provisions and minimum standards
according to definitions contained in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances, and including the definitions contained
in the International_Property_Maintenance_Code adopted by the City of La Grange
in Ord. 12-2019 passed 11-4-2019, as codified in §§
155.15 and
155.16.
   VIOLATOR.
      (1)   The person who is alleged to have violated an ordinance or
committed an offense on or in connection with the subject premises, including:
         (a)   Tenants, occupants or invitees upon the premises;
         (b)   The legal guardian of a violator who is under 18 years of age or
under a legal disability; or
         (c)   The owner of the premises where the violation was permitted to
occur or continue after notice of same.
      (2)   A VIOLATOR is sometimes referred to as an offender as that term is
used in this chapter.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 35A.03 CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD; POWERS; CLASSIFICATION OF VIOLATION AS CIVIL
OFFENSE.
   (A)   The City of La Grange previously created a Code Enforcement Board with
the power to issue remedial orders and impose civil fines as a method of
enforcing city ordinances pursuant to the provisions of KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
The existence and authority of the La Grange Code Enforcement Board shall be
continuous throughout the repeal and replacement of Ord. 20-2014.
   (B)   Subject to the limitations set forth in division (C) of this section,
the city may utilize the Code Enforcement Board to enforce any city ordinance
or zoning regulation of property within its jurisdiction. Each ordinance to be
enforced by the Code Enforcement Board shall provide that each violation of the
ordinance shall constitute a civil offense. Any ordinance subject to a fine
shall provide either:
      (1)   A specific civil fine or fines that may be imposed for each
violation; or
      (2)   Separate civil fines stating either:
         (a)   A maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the citation is
contested; or
         (b)   A specific civil fine of less than the maximum that shall be
imposed if the citation is not contested.
   (C)   The city shall not classify the violation of any ordinance as a civil
offense if the same conduct that is regulated by the ordinance would also
constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor vehicle offense.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 35A.04 BOARD MEMBERSHIP; TERM; REAPPOINTMENT; VACANCY; REMOVAL; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall be comprised of no fewer than three
members who shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to approval of the City
Council.
   (B)   All appointments to the Code Enforcement Board shall be made for a
term of three years, preferably with staggered terms and a maximum of two
terms.
   (C)   Each member of the Code Enforcement Board shall be at least 21 years
of age, have resided within the city for a period of at least one year prior to
the date of appointment, and shall reside in the city throughout the term in
office.
   (D)   A member may be reappointed by the Mayor subject to approval of the
City Council.
   (E)   Any vacancy on the Code Enforcement Board shall be filled within 60
days by the Mayor subject to approval of the City Council. If a vacancy is not
filled within 60 days, the remaining members of the Code Enforcement Board
shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
   (F)   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board may be removed by the Mayor
for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty, who shall submit a
written statement to the member and to the City Council setting forth the
reasons for removal. The member so removed shall have the right of appeal to
the Circuit Court.
   (G)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
their duties, take the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the Constitution
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (H)   The members of the Code Enforcement Board may be compensated up to
$100 per meeting and reimbursed for their approved out of pocket expenses.
   (I)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or
appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, nor any full-time position of
employment with the city.
   (J)   The city is encouraged to provide opportunities for education
regarding pertinent topics for the members of the Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 35A.05 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM; MINUTES; ADMINISTRATIVE.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a Chair from among its
members, who shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of the
Board. In the absence of the Chair, the remaining members of the Board shall
select one of their number to preside in place of the Chair and exercise the
powers of the Chair.
   (B)   Regular monthly meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held
monthly at a regularly scheduled place and time as set out in a published
schedule. The Code Enforcement Board shall also be authorized to conduct
special or emergency meetings by placing a notice on the front door and
notifying the local newspaper in accordance with KRS 61.805 to 61.850. If there
is no business to come before the Board nor any cases to be heard, the
Chairperson may cancel the regularly scheduled monthly meeting by placing a
notice on the front door of the meeting place and notifying the local
newspaper.
   (C)   The presence of at least a majority of the Board’s entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of the members
constituting a quorum shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest and shall disqualify himself or herself from voting on
the matter and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a quorum.
   (D)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes. Hearings shall be conducted as part of the meeting and
each case shall appear as a separate item on the meeting agenda. All hearings
shall be recorded by a court reporter or electronically by audiovisual means,
which shall become part of the evidentiary record. Documents submitted as
evidence shall be made part of the record.
   (E)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be open
to the public. Notwithstanding, the Board members may adjourn to an anteroom to
deliberate amongst themselves prior to taking any action or deciding any issue
that may come before it.
   (F)   The city shall provide clerical and administrative support for the
proper conduct of the functions of the Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 35A.06 ALTERNATE BOARD MEMBERS.
   The Mayor may appoint two alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement
Board in the absence of regular members. The appointment of alternate members
shall be subject to the approval of the City Council. Alternate members shall
meet all of the qualifications and be subject to all of the requirements of
this chapter that apply to regular members.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 35A.07 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to:
   (A)   Adopt rules, regulations and bylaws to govern its operation and the
conduct of its hearings that are consistent with the requirements of this
chapter and other city ordinances. In the absence of any specific rules the
latest edition of Roberts Rules of Procedure shall apply;
   (B)   Conduct hearings, or assign a hearing officer to conduct a hearing, to
determine whether there has been a violation of any city ordinance or zoning
regulation that the Board has jurisdiction to enforce;
   (C)   Subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Board, or an assigned hearing officer, may be served by
any Code Enforcement Officer;
   (D)   Take testimony under oath. The Chairman of the Board, or an assigned
hearing officer, shall have the authority to administer oaths to witnesses
prior to their testimony before the Board or hearing officer on any matter;
   (E)   Make findings and issue orders necessary to remedy any violation of a
city ordinance or zoning ordinance affecting property within the city which the
Board shall have jurisdiction to enforce;
   (F)   Impose civil fines as authorized by ordinance on any person found to
have violated any ordinance that the Board has jurisdiction to enforce; and
   (G)   Enforce the requirements of §
156.07 that a person shall obtain a certificate of appropriateness prior to
undertaking any alteration or restoration of the exterior part of any landmark,
landmark site or historical property located within a designated historic
district in LaGrange or prior to that person undertaking any new construction,
demolition or relocation of such historic property, even if the proposed work
does not require a county building permit; provided, however, the Code
Enforcement Board shall have no authority to decide cases where a person
alleges error in any order, requirement, interpretation, grant, refusal or
decision of the Historic Districts Commission, which cases shall be heard by
the city’s Board of Adjustments and Appeals. A person may obtain an opinion
from the City Council whether the action of the Historic Districts Commission
is consistent with the legislative intent of the enabling ordinance. Any work
performed on a landmark, landmark site or property within a historic district
without first obtaining and conforming with a certificate of appropriateness
shall be a civil offense subject to the penalty set out in §
156.99.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 35A.08 ABATEMENT AND DECONTAMINATION OF METHAMPHETAMINE CONTAMINATION.
   The city may provide for the abatement and decontamination of a property
where a methamphetamine contamination notice has been posted as provided in KRS
224.1-410.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 35A.09 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings before the Code Enforcement Board or hearing
officer shall be initiated by the issuance of a citation by the Code
Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   When the Code Enforcement Officer, based upon personal observation or
investigation, has reasonable cause to believe that a person has committed a
violation of a city ordinance or zoning regulation, the officer is authorized
to issue a citation which shall be served upon the alleged violator by:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued;
      (3)   Mailing a copy of the citation by regular first-class mail with
USPS tracking to the last known recorded mailing address of the alleged
violator; or
      (4)   If, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the issuance of a
citation using the methods set out in divisions (B)(1) to (B)(3) of this
section is not possible, then the citation is properly served by posting a copy
of the citation in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer may, in lieu of immediately issuing a
citation, give written notice of violation to an alleged violator or owner of
the premises stating that the violation shall be remedied within a specified
period of time. If the person to whom the notice is given fails or refuses to
remedy the violation within the time specified, the Code Enforcement Officer is
authorized to issue a citation.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain, in
addition to any other information required by ordinance or rule of the Board:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (4)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (5)   The section number of the ordinance violated;
      (6)   The name and contact information of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (7)   The civil fine that will be imposed for the violation;
      (8)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects to
contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedures for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to request a hearing to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board or hearing officer to contest the citation and that the
determination that a violation was committed shall be final, and the alleged
violator shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court.
   (E)   After issuing and properly serving a citation on an alleged violator,
owner or offending property, the Code Enforcement Officer shall notify the Code
Enforcement Board by delivering a copy of the citation to the administrative
official for the Board. The Code Enforcement Officer, hearing officer or Code
Enforcement Board may also elect to provide notice of the issuance of the
citation to any lienholder with an interest in the subject premises.
   (F)   When a citation is issued and served, the person to whom the citation
is issued shall respond to the citation within 14 days of the date the citation
is received by either paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or
requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the person fails
to respond to the citation within 14 days, the person shall be deemed to have
waived the right to a hearing to contest the citation and the determination
that a violation was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the
citation, as issued, shall be deemed a final order determining that the
violation was committed and an order imposing the civil fine set forth in the
citation, in which case the violator shall be deemed to have waived the right
to appeal to the County District Court as provided hereinbelow. Notice of the
final order shall be provided to the violator by:
      (1)   Regular first-class mail with USPS tracking to the last known
recorded mailing address of the violator;
      (2)   Certified mail addressed to the violator, return receipt requested;
      (3)   Personal delivery to the violator; or
      (4)   Leaving a copy of the order at that person’s usual place of
residence or at the premises with any individual residing therein who is 18
years of age or older, who is informed of the contents of the order and signs a
receipt for the delivery.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 35A.10 CODE BOARD HEARING; NOTICE; FAILURE TO APPEAR; PROCEDURE; FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing is timely requested, the Code Enforcement Board,
through its Code Enforcement Officer, shall schedule the hearing at the next
regularly scheduled meeting, or at a special or called meeting for the purpose
of hearing the matter. Not less than seven days before the date set for the
hearing, the Code Enforcement Board shall notify the person who requested the
hearing of the date, time, and place of the hearing, and advertise notice of
the hearing as required in KRS Chapter 424. The notice may be given by regular
first-class mail (USPS tracking); certified mail, return receipt requested;
personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of
residence or the subject premises with any individual residing therein who is
18 years of age or older, who is informed of the contents of the notice and
signs a written receipt of delivery. The Code Enforcement Board may also elect
to provide notice of hearing to any lienholders with an interest in the subject
premises.
      (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the noticed
place and time of the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the Board shall enter an order determining
that a violation was committed which shall be final and no just cause for
delay. In this event, the citation, as issued, shall be deemed a final order
determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set
forth in the citation, and the accused violator shall be deemed to have
committed the offense and waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court. Notice of the final order shall be provided to the violator and
any other person with an interest in the premises in the manner set forth in
division (E) of this section.
      (2)   Any person to fails to request a hearing but whose case in
nonetheless placed on the Code Enforcement Board docket at the request of the
Code Enforcement Officer, may be heard at the discretion of the Code
Enforcement Board, subject to the same procedures and as set out hereinabove.
   (B)   Each case that is the subject of a hearing may be presented by an
attorney selected by the city, by the Code Enforcement Officer or by a member
of the administrative staff of the city. The attorney may either be counsel to
the Code Enforcement Board or may represent the city by presenting the case at
the hearing, but in no case shall an attorney serve in both capacities.
   (C)   All testimony shall be under oath and shall be recorded, either by a
court reporter or by audio-video means. The Code Enforcement Board or assigned
hearing officer shall take testimony from the Code Enforcement Officer, the
alleged offender, any witnesses to the alleged violation offered by the Code
Enforcement Officer or the alleged offender, or any persons or neighbors having
a direct or indirect interest and personal knowledge of the alleged violation.
Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due process shall be
observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (D)   If the Code Enforcement Board conducts a hearing, or upon the receipt
of recommendations of the hearing officer pursuant to KRS 65.8829(6), the Code
Enforcement Board shall determine, based on the evidence presented on the
record as a whole, whether a violation was committed. If the Board determines
that no violation was committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be
entered. If the Board determines that a violation was committed, the Board may
issue an order upholding the citation and may order the offender to do either
or both of the following:
      (1)   Pay a civil fine in a sum up to the maximum amount authorized by
the ordinance; or
      (2)   Remedy a continuing violation within a specified time to avoid the
imposition of additional fines and remedial orders as authorized by ordinance.
   (E)   Every final order following a hearing of the Code Enforcement Board
shall be reduced to writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions
of the Board, and the date the order was issued. A copy of the order shall be
furnished to the person named in the citation as provided above. If the person
named in the citation is not present at the time a final order of the Board is
issued, the order shall be delivered to that person as provided above.
   (F)   If the Code Enforcement Board is reviewing a final order entered by
the hearing officer on appeal as authorized by KRS 65.8829(7), the Code
Enforcement Board shall review the record created before the hearing officer
and determine whether there is substantial evidence on the record to support
the finding by the hearing officer that a violation was committed. If the Code
Enforcement Board determines that there is not substantial evidence on the
record, it shall issue an order dismissing the citation. If the Code
Enforcement Board determines that there is substantial evidence on the record
that a violation was committed, it shall issue a final order upholding the
order entered by the hearing officer. The provisions of divisions (A) and (D)
of this section shall apply to any appeal of the hearing officer decision
conducted pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 35A.11 HEARING OFFICER; DUTIES; PROCEDURES; ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board may assign a hearing officer to conduct
hearings in accordance with the procedures set forth in KRS 65.8828.
   (B)   Hearing officers.
      (1)   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board, including the Chair, may
be assigned by the Board as a hearing officer.
      (2)   An individual who is not a member of the Code Enforcement Board may
be assigned by the Board as a hearing officer as long as the individual does
not hold any elected or appointed office or position of employment with a unit
of city, and has no direct or indirect conflict with the property, owner or
alleged violator.
   (C)   Any person assigned to be a hearing officer shall have experience or
training in the code enforcement process and basic civil procedural. The
experience or training shall include, at a minimum, acquired knowledge
regarding fundamental due process rights of persons to:
      (1)   Be accompanied and advised by counsel at the hearing;
      (2)   Present evidence and witnesses at the hearing; and
      (3)   Examine or inspect the evidence introduced by any party; and
confront and cross-examine the witnesses and the testimony proffered by any
party.
   (D)   An assigned hearing officer may administer oaths to witnesses prior to
their testimony and may subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to
the hearing to which the officer is assigned.
   (E)   Any hearing conducted by a hearing officer under this section shall
conform to the procedural requirements of KRS 65.8828(1) to (5).
   (F)   The hearing officer shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions of law and shall recommend a final order for consideration and
adoption by the Code Enforcement Board. The hearing officer shall forward these
findings, conclusions and recommendations to the alleged violator or owner of
the premises in the manner required by KRS 65.8828.
   (G)   (1)   In lieu of division (F) of this section, the city authorizes the
hearing officer to make written findings of facts and conclusions of law, and
to enter final orders consistent with the same authority granted to the Code
Enforcement Board under KRS 65.8828(4), with right of appeal to the full Code
Enforcement Board.
      (2)   The findings of fact, conclusions of law and final order of the
hearing officer shall be forwarded within 24 hours of entry to the alleged
violator in the manner required by KRS 65.8828(5) with a copy to the Code
Enforcement Board.
      (3)   For appeals of a final order of a hearing officer issued under this
section, the issue appealed shall be heard by the full Board de novo without
regard to any findings or rulings of the hearing officer. The appeal shall be
filed in writing to the Code Enforcement Board within seven days of the receipt
of the final order of the hearing officer. An individual receiving a final
order of the hearing officer shall be required to exhaust the administrative
remedy of appeal to the Code Enforcement Board before appealing to District
Court as authorized under the following section. Failure to timely file an
appeal to the Code Enforcement Board within seven days of the hearing officer’s
order shall render the hearing officer’s order final and unappealable for
purposes of appeal to the Code Enforcement Board, but a final order issued by
the hearing officer may still be appealed directly to county’s District Court
in accordance with the provisions of KRS 65.8831.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 35A.12 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGEMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from any final order pursuant to this chapter may be made to
the Oldham District Court no later than 30 days after the date the final order
was issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a
copy of the final order in the same manner as any civil action under the Rules
of Civil Procedure. The Oldham District Court shall review the final order de
novo and enter a judgment either upholding or setting aside the order, with
written findings of fact and conclusions of law.
   (B)   A judgment of the Oldham District Court may be appealed to the Oldham
Circuit Court in accordance with the Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (C)   If no appeal from a final order is filed from a decision within the
time period set out in division (A) of this section, the order shall be deemed
final and unappealable for all intents and purposes.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 35A.13 LIEN; RECORDING; RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINES, CHARGES, AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property where the violation occurred
as defined by KRS 65.8805(8), or by a final judgment of the court or the Board,
that the accused committed a violation of a city ordinance. The lien shall be
for all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees
incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs, filing fees, court costs and attorney fees. An
affidavit of the Code Enforcement Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence
of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to
this chapter. The lien:
      (1)   Shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk;
      (2)   Shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and
shall bear interest until paid;
      (3)   Subject to KRS 65.8836, shall take precedence over all other liens,
except state, county, school board and city taxes;
      (4)   Shall continue for ten years following the date of the non
appealable final order, or final judgment of the court; and
      (5)   May be enforced by judicial proceedings, including an action to
foreclose.
   (B)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) of this section,
the person found to have committed the violation shall be personally
responsible for the amount of the lien, including all civil fines assessed for
the violation and for all charges, fees, administrative costs and abatement
costs incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance.
The city may bring a civil action against the person and shall have the same
remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt or liquidated damages.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall otherwise affect the rights or
obligations between the owner of the property and those persons who claim a
security interest in the property.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 35A.14 IMMEDIATE ACTION TO REMEDY VIOLATION OF ORDINANCES.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking
immediate action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason
to believe that the existence of the violation presents imminent danger, a
serious threat to the public health, safety and welfare, or if in the absence
of immediate action, the effects of the violation will be irreparable or
irreversible.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 35A.15 SHORT TITLE FOR THIS CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be cited as the “LaGrange Code
Enforcement Board Act of 2020”.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 10-5-2020)
CHAPTER 36: HUMAN RESOURCES
Section
   
36.01   Adoption by reference
§ 36.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The city hereby adopts a Personnel Policy and Classification and
Compensation Plan. The ordinance is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if fully set out.
(Ord. 17-99, passed 1-3-2000; Ord. 15-2001, passed 11-5-2001; Ord. 2-2002,
passed 2-4-2002; Ord. 14-2002, passed 1-6-2003; Ord. 20-2004, passed 11-1-2004;
Ord. 12-2005, passed 8-1-2005; Ord. 21-2006, passed 9-5-2006; Ord. 3-2007,
passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 4-2007, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 5-2007, passed 3-5-2007;
Ord. 10-2007, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 11-2007, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 4-2009,
passed 5-4-2009; Ord. 8-2012, passed 8-6-2012; Ord. 5-2024, passed 3-4-2024;
Ord. 7-2024, passed 7-1-2024)
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION
Section
   
37.01   County assessment adopted
   
37.02   Due date; payment
   
37.03   Delinquency
   
37.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
37.05   Disposition of funds
   
37.06   Fees imposed to research tax bills
§ 37.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the annual Oldham County assessment for all real and personal property
situated within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
Cross-reference:
   Ad valorem tax rates, see Tables of Special Ordinances, Table XI
§ 37.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due
on September 15.
   (B)   Any taxpayer residing in the city may pay his or her tax bill at any
time after receipt and any amount paid before October 15 shall receive a
discount of 2% of the gross amount of the bill.
(Ord. 5-86, passed 5-22-1986; Ord. 12-92, passed 8-3-1992; Ord. 9-96, passed 9-
5-1996; Ord. 16-97, passed 9-8-1997; Ord. 13-98, passed 9-8-1998; Ord. 8-2020,
passed 9-8-2020)
§ 37.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Any tax bill paid after October 15, shall be paid in its face amount
as shown thereon. Any bill remaining unpaid after November 15, shall be deemed
delinquent and the tax shall have a penalty in the sum of 10% of its face
amount until paid. If any bill is unpaid after January 1 of the year following
the year that the tax bill was originally due, there will, in addition to the
penalty, be 1% interest per month due on the unpaid bill, until paid. Penalties
and interest are cumulative; and, if suit is initiated, then the taxpayer shall
be charged and be required to pay court costs and attorney and/or paralegal
fees. The provisions of this section shall be effective as against all tax
bills that are delinquent when this modification is passed, and as against all
tax bills that become delinquent after this modification is passed.
   (B)   Any tax bills remaining in the hands of the City Clerk on December 15,
or for any prior year thereto which have not been paid shall be endorsed by the
City Clerk as delinquent, at which time the City Clerk shall proceed to compute
the penalty described by this section and add the same to the unpaid tax bill.
After one letter of notice of delinquency has been sent to the taxpayer by the
City Clerk and taxes remain delinquent for a period of 30 days thereafter, the
City Clerk shall then deliver the unpaid tax bills to the City Attorney for
collection. The City Attorney shall receive a fee of $150 per hour for time
spent collecting delinquent taxes and this fee shall be charged as a cost
against the delinquent taxpayer and this fee rate shall be effective as against
all tax bills that are delinquent when this modification is passed.
   (C)   The city shall have the right to place a lien as described by statute
on the property and record the lien in the County Court Clerk’s office, which
recording fees shall be added to the tax bill and shall be paid prior to any
lien being released. Failure to file a notice of lien in the office of the
County Court Clerk does not invalidate the statutory lien granted by state law
and is not a waiver of the right to enforce the same.
(Ord. 5-86, passed 5-22-1986; Ord. 12-92, passed 8-3-1992; Ord. 9-96, passed 9-
5-1996; Ord. 16-97, passed 9-8-1997; Ord. 13-98, passed 9-8-1998; Ord. 2-2011,
passed 3-7-2011; Ord. 2-2012, passed 4-2-2012; Ord. 1-2013, passed 2-4-2013;
Ord. 8-2020, passed 9-8-2020)
Editor’s note:
   Ordinances setting tax rate may from time to time alter specific due dates
for that particular tax period.
§ 37.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810, and any taxes not paid by the date when they become
delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 37.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
§ 37.06 FEES IMPOSED TO RESEARCH TAX BILLS.
   (A)   Any request directed to the City Clerk or his or her staff for
researching or providing information about tax bills which are not delinquent
shall be assessed an administrative fee of $10 per parcel; however, if the
request is made directly from the property owner, no fee will be charged. This
fee shall be paid in advance by the requester. The City Clerk will not provide
information about delinquent tax bills if those tax bills have been endorsed
for collection to the City Attorney.
   (B)   Any request directed to the City Attorney or his or her staff for
researching or providing information about delinquent tax bills which have been
endorsed by the City Clerk for collection shall be assessed an administrative
fee of $50 per parcel. This fee shall be paid in advance by the requester,
unless such a request is made by a party to a lawsuit to collect the delinquent
tax. If such a request is made by way of a discovery request in accordance with
the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure, by a party to a lawsuit to collect the
delinquent tax, the documentation evidencing the tax due will be made available
for inspection.
(Ord. 2-2013, passed 3-4-2013)
CHAPTER 38: DISCRIMINATION BASED ON DISABILITY STATUS
Section
   
38.01   Adoption of procedures
   
38.02   Administration
   
38.03   Amendment
   
38.04   Procedures
Cross-reference:
   Personnel regulations, see
Chapter 36
§ 38.01 ADOPTION OF PROCEDURES.
   The procedures set forth in §
38.04 shall be the “grievance procedures” for anyone who believes he or she has
been discriminated against by the city based on disability status with respect
to federally funded programs.
(Ord. 11-84, passed 8-20-1984)
§ 38.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of these procedures and related federal and state
regulations shall be the responsibility of the Mayor.
(Ord. 11-84, passed 8-20-1984)
§ 38.03 AMENDMENT.
   These procedures may be amended by ordinance to comply with court directives
or additional federal and state regulations.
(Ord. 11-84, passed 8-20-1984)
§ 38.04 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any person (employee or citizen) who believes that he or she has been
subjected to discrimination as prohibited by § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of
1973 and pursuant to regulations at 24 C.F.R. part 8 published in the Federal
Register on June 2, 1988, may personally or by a representative, file a
complaint with the Mayor. A person who has not personally been subjected to
discrimination may also file a complaint.
   (B)   When any person (employee, citizen or applicant) believes that he or
she has been adversely affected by an act or decision by the city, and that the
act or decision was based on disability status, he or she will have the right
to process a complaint or grievance in accordance with the following procedure.
      (1)   An aggrieved person must submit a written statement to the Mayor
setting forth the nature of the discrimination alleged and facts upon which the
allegation is based.
      (2)   (a)   The Mayor shall contact the complainant no later than 15 days
after receiving the written statement to establish an informal meeting with the
objective of resolving the matter informally. However, in no case shall the
informal meeting be conducted sooner than five days nor more than 45 days after
receiving the written statement.
         (b)   There shall be prepared a written documentary of the discussions
at the informal meeting, which shall be preserved in the records of the city.
      (3)   Within 15 days of the informal meeting, if no decision has been
made by the Mayor, or the decision of the Mayor does not satisfy the
complainant, he or she may request a hearing with the City Council by
submitting a written request to the Mayor.
      (4)   In thus discussing the grievance, the complainant may designate any
person of his or her choice to appear with him or her and participate in the
discussion. The City Council shall require the Mayor to participate in the
discussion of the grievance, when it is brought before the City Council. The
City Council shall issue a written decision on the matter within 15 days, and
the decision shall be the final procedure for the complainant at the local
level.
   (C)   There shall be prepared a written documentary of the discussion at the
hearing, which shall be preserved in the records of the city.
(Ord. 11-84, passed 8-20-1984; Ord. 1-95, passed 3-6-1995)
CHAPTER 39: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
39.001   Purpose and authority
   
39.002   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
39.015   Conflicts of interests in general
   
39.016   Receipt of gifts
   
39.017   Representation of interest before city government
   
39.018   Misuse of confidential information
   
39.019   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
39.030   Who must file
   
39.031   When to file statements
   
39.032   Contents of the financial interest statement
   
39.033   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
39.045   Nepotism prohibited
Drug and Alcohol Abuse
   
39.060   Prohibited
Enforcement
   
39.075   City Ethics Commission
   
39.076   Powers and duties of the Ethics Commission
   
39.077   Complaint procedure; preliminary investigations
   
39.078   Adjudicatory proceedings; action by commission; appeals
   
39.079   Records
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.001 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   City Council has the authority pursuant to Chapter 65.003 to establish
a code of ethics to guide the city, including members of the City Council, City
Attorney, City Clerk, City Works Department Head, Chief of Police and officers,
City Water and Sewer Superintendent and Bookkeeper of the city and the City
Water and Sewer Department.
   (B)   Public office and employment are a public trust and government has a
duty both to provide their citizens with standards by which they may determine
whether public duties are being faithfully performed, and to apprise their
officers and employees of the behavior which is expected of them while
conducting their public duties.
   (C)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
(Ord. 20-94, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 39.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ASSOCIATE. Includes the following:
      (1)   A private employer;
      (2)   A general or limited partnership, or a general or limited partner
within the partnership;
      (3)   A corporation that is family-owned or in which all shares of stock
are closely-held, and the shareholders, owners and officers of such a
corporation; and
      (4)   A corporation, business association or other business entity in
which the city government officer or employee serves as a compensated agent or
representative.
   BUSINESS ORGANIZATION. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship,
firm, enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed
individual, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust,
professional service corporation or any legal entity through which business is
conducted for profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
government office. An individual is a candidate when the individual files a
notification and declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or
Secretary of State, or is nominated for office by a political party under KRS
118.105, 118.115, 118.325 or 118.760.
   CITY GOVERNMENT AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock
corporation or other entity formed by the city government or a combination of
local governments.
   CITY GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether compensated or not, whether
full-time or part-time, employed by or serving the city government or city
government agency who is not a city government officer, but shall not mean any
employees of a school district or school board.
   CITY GOVERNMENT OFFICER. Any person, whether compensated or not, whether
full-time or part-time, who is elected to any city government office; or any
person, who serves as a member of the governing body of any city government
agency or special taxing or nontaxing district, but shall not mean any officer
of a school district or school board.
   MEMBER OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the individual or
individual’s spouse as a dependent for tax purposes.
(Ord. 20-94, passed 12-15-1994)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 39.015 CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS IN GENERAL.
   (A)   No city government officer or employee or member of his or her
immediate family shall have an interest in a business or engage in any
business, transaction or activity which is in substantial conflict with the
proper discharge of his or her duties in the public interest.
   (B)   No city government officer or employee shall use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself, herself or others.
   (C)   No city government officer or employee shall act in his or her
official capacity in any matter where he or she, a member of his or her
immediate family, or a business organization in which he or she has an
interest, has a direct or indirect financial or personal involvement that might
reasonably be expected to impair his or her objectivity or independence of
judgment.
   (D)   No city government officer or employee shall undertake any employment
or service, compensated or not, which might reasonably be expected to prejudice
his or her independence of judgment in the exercise of his or her official
duties.
(Ord. 20-94, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 39.016 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No city government officer or employee of the city, member of his or her
immediate family or business organization in which he or she has an interest,
shall solicit or accept any gift, favor, loan, political contribution, service,
promise of future employment or other thing of value based upon an
understanding that the gift, favor, loan, contribution, service, promise, or
other thing of value was given or offered for the purpose of influencing him or
her, directly or indirectly, in the discharge of his or her official duties.
This provision shall not apply to the solicitation or acceptance of
contributions to the campaign of an announced candidate for elective public
office as government by the Kentucky Revised Statutes. A one-time gift of $20
or less, or an accumulation of gifts of $20 or less not to exceed $500 from one
entity during a 12-month period, will not be considered as violation of this
standard of conduct.
(Ord. 20-94, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 39.017 REPRESENTATION OF INTEREST BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No city government officer or employee or business organization in
which he or she has an interest shall represent any person or business other
than the local government in connection with any cause, proceeding, application
or other matter pending before any agency in the local government in which he
or she serves.
   (B)   No city government officer shall be deemed in conflict with these
provisions if, by reason of his or her participation in the enactment of any
ordinance, resolution or other matter required to be voted upon or which is
subject to executive approval or veto, no material or monetary gain accrues to
him or her as a member of any business, profession, occupation or group, to any
greater extent than any gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any
other member of such business, profession, occupation or group.
   (C)   No elected city government officer shall be prohibited from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
   (D)   Nothing shall prohibit any city government officer or employee, or
members of his or her immediate family, from representing himself, herself or
themselves, in negotiations or proceedings concerning his, her or their, own
interest.
(Ord. 20-94, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 39.018 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No city government officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall
use, or allow to be used, his or her public office or employment, or any
information, not generally available to the members of the public, which he or
she receives or acquires in the course of and by reason of his or her office or
employment, for the purpose of securing financial gain for himself or herself,
any member of his or her immediate family, or any business organization with
which he or she is associated except under the “rule of necessity”.
(Ord. 20-94, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 39.019 HONORARIA.
   No city government officer or employee shall be prohibited from giving or
receiving an award publicly presented in recognition of public service,
commercially reasonable loans made in the ordinary course of the lender’s
business, or reasonable hosting, including travel and expenses, entertainment,
meals or refreshments furnished in connection with public events, appearance,
ceremonies or fact-finding trips related to official city government business.
(Ord. 20-94, passed 12-15-1994)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 39.030 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following shall file a statement of financial interests.
   (A)   Any officer or employee, or any member of the immediate family of the
city government who shall have any private financial interest, directly or
indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or within any department
or agency of the city government shall disclose such private interest to the
City Council or the local ethics commission.
   (B)   The Mayor or City Council or a member of his or her immediate family,
who has a private interest in any matter pending before the City Council shall
disclose such private interest on the records of the court and shall disqualify
himself or herself from participating in any decision or vote relating thereto.
   (C)   Any officer or employee, or a member of his or her immediate family,
of an independent agency or special district to which this code of ethics
applies who shall have any private financial interest, directly or indirectly,
in any contract or matter pending before or within such independent agency or
special district shall disclose such private interest to the governing body of
the agency or district.
   (D)   A statement of financial interest shall be filed by all elected city
officers and candidates for city elective offices. This statement shall be
filed with the City Clerk’s office and the Board of Ethics.
(Ord. 20-94, passed 12-15-1994; Ord. 11-96, passed 9-5-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Code of ethics requirements, see KRS 65.003
§ 39.031 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS.
   A statement shall be filed by January 31 for the preceding calendar year for
elected officers and by October 15 of the election year for all candidates for
elected office. The first statement shall be filed by January 31, 1995.
(Ord. 20-94, passed 12-15-1994; Ord. 11-96, passed 9-5-1996)
§ 39.032 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTEREST STATEMENT.
   (A)   A statement of financial interest shall include the following:
      (1)   Name of filer;
      (2)   Current business address, business telephone number and home
address of the filer;
      (3)   Title of the filer’s public office or office sought;
      (4)   Occupations of the filer and spouse;
      (5)   Positions held by the filer and any member of the filer’s immediate
family in any business organization or nonprofit entity from which the filer or
any member of the filer’s immediate family from which the filer or any member
of the filer’s immediate family received compensation in excess of $5,000
during the preceding calendar year, and the name, address and telephone number
of the business organization or nonprofit entity;
      (6)   Name, address and telephone number of each business located within
the Commonwealth in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate
family had any interest of $5,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest
or more during the preceding year; and
      (7)   The location and type (commercial, residential, agricultural) of
all real property within the city, other than the filer’s primary residence, in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had an interest
of $5,000 or more during the past year.
   (B)   Each statement shall be signed and dated by the individual filing the
statement of financial interest. Signing a fraudulent statement shall be a
Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 20-94, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 39.033 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   All pay and benefits shall be withheld until a noncomplying officer is in
compliance with the filing requirements.
(Ord. 20-94, passed 12-15-1994)
NEPOTISM
§ 39.045 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No city government officer or city government employee of the city
shall act in his or her official capacity to hire or cause to be hired any
member of his or her immediate family, as defined by the personnel policy of
the city, at an hourly pay rate or with benefits in excess of any other
employee with similar job duties, responsibilities and qualification
requirements.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall exercise contract management authority
where any member of the immediate family of the official or employee is
employed by or has contracts with persons doing government work over which the
official or employee has or exercises contract management authority.
(Ord. 20-94, passed 12-15-1994)
DRUG AND ALCOHOL ABUSE
§ 39.060 PROHIBITED.
   No city government officer or employee shall act in his or her official
capacity while intoxicated. This section includes, but is not limited to,
voting on issues before the City Council. No city government officer or
employee shall operate any motor vehicle while intoxicated. Any violation of
this section is subject to both the existing enforcement section of this Code
of Ethics as well as any other applicable laws and/or ordinances of the city,
county and Commonwealth.
(Ord. 10-2006, passed 4-3-2006)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 39.075 CITY ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   The City Ethics Commission shall consist of three citizen members.
   (B)   The Commission shall annually select a Chairperson.
   (C)   The members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
City Council.
   (D)   Members shall receive no compensation but may be reimbursed all
necessary expenses.
   (E)   The terms of members shall be staggered and no longer than four years.
(Ord. 20-94, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 39.076 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Commission shall have jurisdiction over the administration of this
code and enforcement of the civil penalties prescribed by this code.
   (B)   The Commission may receive and initiate complaints, initiate
investigations on its own motion; and conduct investigations, inquiries and
hearings concerning any matter covered by this code.
   (C)   The Commission may administer oaths; request the attendance of
witnesses and the production of papers, books, accounts, documents and
testimony; and have the deposition of witnesses taken in the manner prescribed
by the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure for taking depositions in civil
actions. A failure of any employee to comply with request for appearance or
documents shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   The Commission may render advisory opinions whether or not a given set
of facts and circumstances constitute a violation of any provision of this
code.
   (E)   The Commission shall prescribe and provide forms for reports,
statements, notices and other documents required by this code.
   (F)   The Commission shall determine whether the required statements and
reports have been filed and, if filed, whether they conform with the
requirements of this code. The Commission shall promptly give notice to the
filer to correct or explain any omission or deficiency.
   (G)   The Commission may retain private counsel at the expense of the city
if the city attorney has an actual or potential conflict.
(Ord. 20-94, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 39.077 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE; PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a complaint signed under penalty of perjury by any person,
or upon its own motion, the Commission shall investigate any alleged violation
of this code.
      (2)   Not later than ten days after the Commission receives the
complaint, the Commission shall initiate a preliminary inquiry into any alleged
violation of this code.
      (3)   Within 30 days of the commencement of the inquiry, the Commission
shall forward a copy of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable
law to the person alleged to have committed a violation.
   (B)   All Commission proceedings and records relating to a preliminary
investigation shall be confidential until a final determination is made by the
Commission, except:
      (1)   The Commission may turn over to the Commonwealth’s attorney or
County Attorney of the jurisdiction in which the offense allegedly occurred,
evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; and
      (2)   The complainant or alleged violator shall not publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary investigation, the Commission shall not publicly
confirm the existence of the inquiry nor make public any documents which were
issued to either party.
   (C)   The Commission shall afford a person who is the subject of a
preliminary investigation an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the
complaint. The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to
appear and be heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the
allegations in the complaint.
   (D)   If the Commission determines in the preliminary investigation that the
complaint does not allege facts sufficient to constitute a violation of this
code, the Commission shall immediately terminate the inquiry and notify in
writing the complainant and the person alleged to have committed a violation.
The Commission may confidentially inform the alleged violator of potential
violations and provide information to ensure future compliance with the law.
   (E)   If the Commission, during the course of the preliminary investigation,
finds probable cause to believe that a violation of this code has occurred, the
Commission shall notify the alleged violator of the finding, and the
Commission, upon majority vote, may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the alleged violator, lack of significant
economic loss to the city, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in government, confidentially reprimand, in writing, the alleged violator for
potential violations of the law and provide a copy of the reprimand to the
Mayor; and
      (2)   Initiate an adjudicatory proceeding to determine whether there has
been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Commission a false complaint
of misconduct on the part of any elected or appointed official or other person
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 20-94, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 39.078 ADJUDICATORY PROCEEDINGS; ACTION BY COMMISSION; APPEALS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall apply to all Commission adjudicatory hearings. All testimony in
a Commission adjudicatory proceeding shall be under oath. All parties shall
have the right to call and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-
examine witnesses, to submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel and any
other due process rights, privileges and responsibilities of a witness
appearing before the courts of the Commonwealth. All witnesses shall be
entitled to be represented by counsel.
   (B)   Any person whose name is mentioned during adjudicatory proceedings of
the Commission and who may be adversely affected thereby may appear personally
before the Commission on his or her own behalf, with or without attorney, to
give a statement in opposition to such adverse mention or file a written
statement of that opposition for incorporation into the record of proceeding.
   (C)   All adjudicatory proceedings of the Commission carried out pursuant to
the provisions of this section shall be public, unless the members vote to go
into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (D)   Within 30 days after the end of an adjudicatory proceeding pursuant to
the provisions of this section, the Commission shall meet in executive session
for the purpose of reviewing the evidence before it. Within 30 days after
completion of deliberations, the Commission shall publish a written report of
its findings and conclusions.
   (E)   The Commission, upon a finding pursuant to an adjudicatory proceeding
that there is clear and convincing proof of a violation of this code, may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   Issue an order requiring the violator to file any report, statement
or other information as required by this code;
      (3)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for potential
violations of the law and provide a copy of the reprimand to the Mayor; and
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $500.
   (F)   The Commission may refer to the City Attorney or Commonwealth’s
Attorney for prosecution evidence of criminal violations of this code.
   (G)   Findings of fact or final determinations by the Commission that a
violation of this code has been committed, or any testimony related to the
Commission’s findings of fact or final determinations, shall not be admissible
in criminal proceedings in the courts of the Commonwealth. Evidence collected
by the Commission may be used in a criminal proceeding if otherwise relevant.
   (H)   Any person found by the Commission to have committed a violation of
this code may appeal the action to the Oldham Circuit Court. The appeal shall
be initiated within 30 days after the date of the final action of the
Commission by filing a petition with the court against the Commission. The
Commission shall transmit to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by
the Commission at the public hearing. The court shall hear the appeal upon the
record as certified by the Commission.
(Ord. 20-94, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 39.079 RECORDS.
   Records will be maintained in compliance with the standards established by
the Archives and Records Commission.
(Ord. 20-94, passed 12-15-1994)
CHAPTER 40: PROCUREMENT STANDARDS (CDBG)
Section
   
40.01   Procurement standards
   
40.02   Methods for procurement
   
40.03   Contracts
   
40.04   Documentation
   
40.05   Code of conduct
§ 40.01 PROCUREMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All procurements made by the city involving the expenditure of CDBG
funds will be made in accordance with the following procurement standards.
   (B)   Procurement transactions, regardless of method or dollar value, will
maximize open and free competition. The city shall not engage in procurement
practices which may be considered restrictive in trade.
   (C)   Purchases will be reviewed by the Director of Community Development to
prevent duplication and to ensure that costs are reasonable.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 40.02 METHODS FOR PROCUREMENT.
   (A)   Procurements; generally. Procurements shall be made by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Small purchase procedures;
      (2)   Competitive sealed bids;
      (3)   Competitive negotiation; and
      (4)   Non-competitive negotiation.
   (B)   Small purchase procedures.
      (1)   Purchases of supplies, equipment and services which cost between
$3,000 and $40,000 will require written estimates but no legal advertisement is
required. The city will solicit written responses from at least three vendors,
and if no such responses are available, a statement explaining the procurement
will be prepared and filed.
      (2)   For purchases of less than $3,000, efforts will be made to get the
lowest and best price, but written records of such efforts are not necessary.
   (C)   Competitive sealed bids.
      (1)   Bidding will be employed when detailed specifications for the goods
or services to be procured can be prepared and the primary basis for award is
cost. When the cost of a contract, lease or other agreement for materials,
supplies, equipment or contractual services other than those personal or
professional exceeds $40,000, an invitation for bids (IFB) notice will
generally be prepared. This notice will be published at least once in at least
one official newspaper of general circulation within the community. This
newspaper notice will appear not less than seven days and not more than 21 days
before the due date for bid proposals. The Mayor may also solicit sealed bids
from responsible prospective suppliers by sending them a copy of the notice.
      (2)   The IFB will include a general description of the goods or services
to be procured, the bid deposit and bond performance required (if applicable),
the location where bid forms and specifications may be secured, the time and
place for opening bids, and whether the bid award will be made on the basis of
the lowest bid price or the lowest evaluated price. If the lowest evaluated
price is used, the measurable criteria to be utilized must be stated in the
IFB. The newspaper notice must also contain language which calls to the
attention of bidders all applicable requirements which must be compiled with
such as § 3 of the 1968 Housing Act, § 109 of the 1974 Housing and Community
Development Act, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Executive Order 11246 and the
Davis-Bacon Act.
      (3)   Sealed bids will be opened in public at the time and place stated
in the IFBs.
      (4)   The city may cancel an invitation for bid or reject all bids if it
is determined in writing that such is in the best interests of the city. The
city may allow a vendor to withdraw a bid if requested at any time prior to the
bid opening. Bids received after the time set for bid opening shall be returned
to the vendor unopened.
   (D)   Competitive negotiations.
      (1)   The city will utilize competitive negotiations, regardless of
contract amount, upon a written determination that specifications cannot be
made specific enough to permit the award of a bid on the basis of either the
lowest bid price or the lowest evaluated bid price (bidding is not feasible),
and/or the services to be procured are professional or personal in nature.
      (2)   With the exception of procurement of certain professional services
(engineering services, for example), competitive negotiations will proceed as
follows.
         (a)   Proposals will be solicited through newspaper advertisement;
additionally, a request for proposal (RFP) may be prepared and mailed to
qualified vendors. The newspaper advertisement must be published at least seven
days and not more than 21 days before the date for receipt of the proposals.
The RFP will describe services needed and identify the factors to be considered
in the evaluation of proposals and the relative weights assigned to each
selection factor. The RFP will also state where further details regarding the
RFP may be obtained. The RFP will call attention to the same regulations
discussed in the bidding process. Requests for proposals will always include
cost as a selection factor.
         (b)   Award must be made to the offerer whose proposal is determined
in writing by a review committee to be the most advantageous to the city.
Evaluations must be based on the factors set forth in the RFP and a written
evaluation of each response prepared. The review committee may contact the
firms regarding their proposals for the purpose of clarification and record in
writing the nature of the clarification. If it is determined that no acceptable
proposal has been submitted, all proposals may be rejected. New proposals may
be solicited on the same or revised terms or the procurement may be abandoned.
      (3)   For the procurement of professional services, an alternative to
RFPs may be used. The city may publish a request for qualifications (RFQ). RFQs
are handled in a similar method to RFPs with the exception that cost is not a
factor in the initial evaluation. A review committee will evaluate the
responses and rank them by comparative qualifications. The highest scoring
person or firm will be contacted and the selection committee will negotiate
cost. If the committee is unable to negotiate a satisfactory cost arrangement,
the second highest scoring person or firm will be invited to negotiate. The
committee will maintain a written record of all such negotiations.
   (E)   Non-competitive negotiations.
      (1)   Non-competitive negotiations may be used for procurements when
bidding or competitive negotiations are not feasible. The city may purchase
goods and services through non-competitive negotiations when it is determined
in writing by the Mayor that competitive negotiation or bidding is not feasible
and that:
         (a)   An emergency exists which will cause public harm as a result of
the delay caused by following competitive purchasing procedures;
         (b)   The product or service can be obtained only from one source;
         (c)   The contract is for the purchase of perishable items purchased
on a weekly or more frequent basis;
         (d)   Only one satisfactory proposal is received through RFP or RFQ;
or
         (e)   The state has authorized the particular type of non-competitive
negotiation (the procurement of services by an Area Development District, for
example.)
      (2)   Procurement by non-competitive negotiation requires the strictest
attention to the observation of impartiality toward all suppliers.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 3-6-1995; Ord. 11-2015, passed 11-2-2015; Ord. 15-2021,
passed 1-3-2022; Ord. 15-2023, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 40.03 CONTRACTS.
   Generally, all procurement in excess of $3,000 will be memorialized and
supported by a written contract. Where it is infeasible or impractical to
prepare a contract, a written finding to this effect will be prepared an some
form of documentation regarding the transaction will also be prepared. The
contractual provisions required by the “Common Rule”, 24 C.F.R. part 85, will
be included in all contracts.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 3-6-1995; Ord. 11-2015, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 40.04 DOCUMENTATION.
   All source documents supporting any given transaction (receipts, purchase
orders, invoices, RFP/RFQ data and bid materials) will be retained and filed in
an appropriate manner. Where feasible, source documents pertinent to each
individual procurement shall be separately filed and maintained. Where it is
infeasible to maintain individual procurement files, source documents will be
filed and maintained in a reasonable manner (examples include chronologically,
by vendor, and by type of procurement). Whatever form of documentation and
filing is employed, the purpose of this section is to ensure that a clear and
consistent audit trail is established. At a minimum, source document data must
be sufficient to establish the basis for selection, basis for cost (including
the issue of reasonableness of cost) and basis for payment.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 40.05 CODE OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   Conflict of interest. No elected official, employee or designated
agent of the city will take part or have an interest in the award of any
procurement transaction if a conflict of interest, real or apparent, exists. A
conflict of interest occurs when the official, employee or designated agent of
the city, partners of such individuals, immediate family member, or an
organization which employs or intends to employ any of the above has a
financial or other interest in any of the competing firms.
   (B)   Acceptance of gratuities. No elected official, employee or designated
agent of the city shall solicit or accept gratuities, favors or anything of
monetary value from contractors, potential contractors, subcontractors or
potential subcontractors.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any elected official, employee or designated agent of the city who
knowingly and deliberately violates the provisions of this code will be open to
civil suit by the citizens of the city without the legal protection of the
city. Furthermore, such a violation of these procurement standards is grounds
for dismissal by the city.
      (2)   Any contractor or potential contractor who knowingly and
deliberately violates the provisions of these procurement standards will be
barred from future transactions with the city.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 3-6-1995)
Cross-reference:
   Code of Ethics, see
Chapter 39
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITY COMMISSION
      
51.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
52.   WATERWORKS SYSTEM
      
53.   GARBAGE
      
54.   STORMWATER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITY COMMISSION
Section
   
50.01   Establishment and responsibilities
   
50.02   Members
   
50.03   Compensation
   
50.04   Term of office; removal
   
50.05   Meetings; quorum
   
50.06   Powers and duties
   
50.07   Utilities System Director
   
50.08   Regulations enacted by the Commission
   
50.09   Effect on outstanding bonds
   
50.10   Guidelines, policy, and budget
§ 50.01 ESTABLISHMENT AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   There is established the Utility Commission of the city, which shall
consist of five total members including two members shall be residents of the
city who have resided therein for not less than one year preceding the date of
their appointment and, an additional two members who may be residents and/or
customers of the Utility Commission. The members shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the City Council. An additional member of the
Utility Commission shall be appointed from the membership of the City Council
and shall constitute the fifth member of the Utility Commission.
   (B)   The Utility Commission shall be responsible for providing a system of
water and sewer to the citizens of the city. Although water systems other than
those of this Commission serve some of the citizens of the city, it is the
responsibility of the Commission to provide a system of potable water to the
citizens and businesses of the city and it is the intent of the Commission to
provide such services to any areas of the city that do not have water as
possible as determined by the Commission. The City Council states that it is
the mission of the Commission to provide the city with water and sewer;
establish and regulate public cisterns, hydrants and reservoirs, with and
beyond the limits of the city, for the extinguishment of fires and the
convenience of the inhabitants; prevent the unnecessary waste of water; and to
change, relocate and establish water and sewer service within and beyond the
city limits.
(Ord. 2-83, passed 2-21-1983; Ord. 22-2006, passed 10-1-2006; Ord. 1-2024,
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 50.02 MEMBERS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
50.01, no person shall be appointed a member of the Utility Commission who has,
within the past two years before his or her appointment, held any public
office, or who is a close relative of the Mayor or any member of the City
Council. CLOSE RELATIVE as used in this Chapter 50 shall be defined as a person
who by consanguinity or affinity, including half, foster, step and adoptive
kin, is either a spouse, child, grandchild, parent, grandparent, brother,
sister, aunt, uncle, nephew or niece of the principal.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 96.320, members of the Utility Commission shall be
citizens, taxpayers, regular voters of the city, and/or customers of the
Utility Commission and shall not at the time of their appointment be indebted
to the municipality either directly or indirectly or be surety on the official
bond of any official of the city.
   (C)   If at any time during his or her term of office a member of the
Utility Commission is elected to or appointed to any public office, he or she
shall automatically vacate his or her membership from the Utility Commission
and another person shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
City Council to take his or her place. Notwithstanding this provision, a City
Council member who is appointed by the Mayor to serve on the Utility
Commission, as an ex-officio member, may serve in both capacities.
   (D)   The Utility Commission shall pay the cost of securing bonds for
Utility Commission members from a surety company qualified to do business in
the state and the members shall execute bond in an amount required by
resolution of the Utility Commission and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their official duties.
   (E)   Each member of the Utility Commission shall qualify by taking the oath
provided for by § 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
(Ord. 2-83, passed 2-21-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004,
passed 12-20-2004; Ord. 22-2006, passed 10-1-2006; Ord. 3-2014, passed 2-3-
2014; Ord. 5-2014, passed 6-2-2014; Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 50.03 COMPENSATION.
   The Utility Commission shall determine the compensation to be paid to its
members, not exceeding an annual salary of $3,600 per Commissioner per annum,
except that each Commissioner who completes during a calendar year a minimum of
six instructional hours (year one) of water or sewer utility management
training approved by the Public Service Commission, Division of Water, or
equivalent municipal utility training, may receive an annual salary of not more
than $4,800 for year one. Each Commissioner who completes during the following
calendar year an additional six instructional hours (consecutive year two) of
water or sewer utility management training approved by the Public Service
Commission, Division of Water, or equivalent municipal utility training, may
receive an annual salary of not more than $6,000 for year two. Each
Commissioner who continues to complete during the following calendar year and
consecutive years beyond an additional six instructional hours (year three and
beyond) of water or sewer utility management training approved by the Public
Service Commission, Division of Water, or equivalent municipal utility
training, may continue to receive an annual salary of not more than $6,000. The
Chairperson shall receive an additional $60 per month as an expense
reimbursement. These amounts shall constitute a cost of operation and
maintenance of the waterworks system, sewer system and other utilities. The
city shall not be liable for the payment of any salary or compensation of any
of the members of the Utility Commission, or for the payment of the salary or
compensation or expenses of any person employed by the Utility Commission, and
such salaries, compensation and expenses, and any and all liabilities of
whatever kind or character, incurred by the Utility Commission, or any officer
or employee thereof, shall be paid solely and only out of the revenue obtained
from the Utility Commission from the various utilities owned by the city
pursuant to the law, and the liabilities shall be so limited.
(Ord. 2-83, passed 2-21-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004,
passed 12-20-2004; Ord. 16-2017, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 50.04 TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The original appointees shall serve for one, two and three years
respectively, from the date of the appointments as the Mayor shall designate.
Successors to retiring members so appointed shall be appointed for a term of
four years in the same manner prior to the expiration of the term of office of
the retiring member. The Council person member of the Utility Commission shall
serve for such time as the Mayor may fix, but not beyond such appointee’s term
of office in the City Council. Appointments to complete unexpired terms of
office shall be made in the same manner as original appointments.
   (B)   Any member of the Utility Commission may be removed from office upon a
vote of the City Council for inefficiency, neglect of duty, misfeasance,
nonfeasance or malfeasance in office.
(Ord. 2-83, passed 2-21-1983)
§ 50.05 MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   A majority of the Utility Commission shall constitute a quorum and the
Utility Commission shall act by vote of the majority present at any meeting
attended by the quorum. Vacancies in the Utility Commission shall not affect
its power or authority so long as a quorum remains. Within ten days after
appointment and qualification of members, the Utility Commission shall hold a
meeting to elect a Chairperson and such other officers as it may choose to
elect. The Utility Commission shall hold public meetings on the second Monday
of each month at such place as the Utility Commission may designate. Changes in
time and place of meeting shall be made known to the public as far in advance
as practicable. Any meeting may be called by the Chairperson or by two members
of the Utility Commission; but, if such meeting is called, written notice shall
be sent to all members of the Utility Commission by the Chairperson. Except as
otherwise specifically provided, the Utility Commission shall establish its own
bylaws and rules of procedure.
(Ord. 2-83, passed 2-21-1983; Ord. 13-83, passed 10-3-1983)
§ 50.06 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Utility Commission shall have charge of the general supervision
and control of the operation and maintenance of the waterworks system, sewer
system and all other utilities for the city for the use of which service fees
or rentals will be charged. However, it is understood that the Utility
Commission is governed by a commission with policy-making authority that is
separate from the governing bodies of the city and county in which it operates
but has been determined to be a special purpose government entity by the
Kentucky Department of Local Government subject to the provisions of KRS
Chapter 65A.
   (B)   Consistent with the requirements of any applicable state law, and
within the limits of the funds available therefor, all powers of the city to
improve, operate, expand and maintain the systems and utilities and all powers
necessary and convenient thereto, shall be exercised on behalf of the City
Council by the Utility Commission. Subject to the provision of applicable bonds
or contracts, the Utility Commission shall determine programs and make all
plans and determinations as to improvements and financial practices, and may
establish those rules and regulations as it deems necessary or appropriate to
govern the furnishing of water and other service.
   (C)   A copy of the schedule of the current rates and charges and all rules
and regulations adopted by the Utility Commission relating to water and sewer
service and of other utilities shall be kept on file at the main office of the
Utility Commission.
   (D)   The Utility Commission shall keep a complete and accurate record of
all meetings and actions taken, and of all receipts and disbursements, and
shall make reports thereof to the City Council at least once a month. The
report shall be in writing and shall be filed in open meeting of the City
Council, and a copy shall be filed with the City Clerk, as a public record.
   (E)   The LaGrange Utilities Report must continue to remain as a line item
on the agenda for regularly scheduled City Council meetings, and representation
from LaGrange Utilities must attend in person at these meetings.
   (F)   The Utility Commission shall employ an attorney and designate payments
to be paid to the attorney and for its attending meetings and for representing
the Commission and Director in any legal work of any nature on the Commission's
behalf as may be required from time to time, such payment to be made from the
Commission's operating budget.
(Ord. 2-83, passed 2-21-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004; Ord. 16-2017,
passed 12-4-2017; Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 50.07 UTILITIES SYSTEM DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Utility Commission shall employ a Utilities System Director
(hereinafter called "Director"), who shall be qualified by training and
experience for the general superintendence over the acquisition, improvement
and operation of the system. His or her salary shall be fixed by the Utility
Commission. The Director's employment may be terminated by the Utilities
Commission. He or she shall be required to execute a bond, in a sum to be
determined and approved by the Utility Commission, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of his or her official duties. The cost of the bond may be
charged as an expense of the operation of this system.
   (B)   The Director shall have charge of all actual construction, the
immediate management and operation of the various utilities systems, and the
enforcement and execution of all rules, regulations, programs, plans and
decisions made or adopted by the Utility Commission.
   (C)   The Director shall appoint all employees and fix their duties and
compensation, subject to and with the approval of the Utility Commission and
subject to the pay plan and compensation guidelines adopted by the Utility
Commission. The title of all property purchased or acquired shall be taken in
the corporate name of the Utility Commission.
   (D)   The Director shall let all contracts subject to the approval of the
Utility Commission, but may, without this approval, obligate the various
utilities systems on all purchase up to an amount to be fixed by the Utility
Commission. All contracts shall be in the corporate name of the Utility
Commission and shall be signed by the Director. The Director shall make and
keep or cause to be made and kept full and proper books and records, subject to
the supervision and direction of the Utility Commission and the provisions of
applicable contracts.
(Ord. 2-83, passed 2-21-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004,
passed 12-20-2004; Ord. 10-2011, passed 9-6-2011; Ord. 5-2014, passed 6-2-2014;
Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 50.08 REGULATIONS ENACTED BY THE COMMISSION.
   All ordinances, resolutions, orders, rules and regulations, or parts
thereof, enacted by the City Council as to matters provided for in Chapters 50
through
52 shall continue in full force and effect until the Utility Commission has
been properly and legally organized and has enacted a resolution, order, rule,
or regulation as to the same.
(Ord. 2-83, passed 2-21-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004; Ord. 1-2024,
passed 2-5-2024)
§ 50.09 EFFECT ON OUTSTANDING BONDS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall constitute a contract between the city
and the holder of any bonds already authorized to be issued or for which
provisions have been or will be made as their issuance, which are to be secured
by the revenues of such waterworks system or other utilities, and after the
issuance of any of such bonds no change, variation, or alteration of any kind
of the provisions of this chapter shall be made in any manner, except as herein
provided or otherwise compelled by law until such time as all such bonds and
interest thereon have been paid in full.
(Ord. 2-83, passed 2-21-1983)
§ 50.10 GUIDELINES, POLICY, AND BUDGET.
   (A)   The Utility Commission shall be responsible for the policy and
guidelines for the operation of the Utility Commission, unless otherwise
specified in this chapter or otherwise prohibited by Kentucky law.
   (B)   Subject to the provision of applicable bonds and contracts, the
Utility Commission shall determine programs and make all plans and
determination as to improvements and financial practice and may establish those
rules, regulations, policies, practice, guidelines and/or handbooks as it deems
necessary or appropriate to govern the furnishings of water and sewer.
   (C)   Budget.
      (1)   The Utilities Commission shall approve an annual budget for the
operation of the Utility Commission, which shall be provided to the city after
passage.
      (2)   The Commission shall pay all costs and expenses in the operation of
the Commission from its operating budget, including but not limited to,
insurance, equipment. supplies, materials, labor and any other necessary costs
and expenses incurred in the normal and customary business of this nature.
      (3)   Pursuant to Kentucky law, in particular, KRS 96.460, the city shall
pay the reasonable cost and value of any water and/or sewer or other service
rendered to the city by the Utilities Commission. The funds so paid shall be
accounted for in the same manner as other revenues of the Utilities Commission.
      (4)   In keeping with Kentucky law, the Utilities Commission shall not
obligate itself beyond its own resources for any fiscal year. The Commission,
when necessary, by, through and when needed, in conjunction with the city may
borrow money and issue negotiable bonds, in keeping with Kentucky law. Such
approval shall be obtained by the Commission by a majority vote of the City
Council and with the approval of the Mayor. This may be evidenced by an
interlocal cooperation agreement authorized under KRS 65.240.
   (D)   Financial audit. The Commission shall cause to be made a financial
audit of its financial records each year and a written report prepared by the
auditor, who shall be an independent auditor.
   (E)   Previous agreements and contracts. The Commission shall be bound to
perform under the terms of any previous contracts and/or agreements made and
entered into by or on behalf of the Commission that exist on February 5, 2024
that were entered into while the Commission exited under previous city
ordinance.
   (F)   Personnel and pay. The Commission shall adopt a personnel policy and
pay scale or pay rate for all employees and adopt an ethics policy which may be
the same or different than that of the city, all within the discretion of the
Commission.
   (G)   Acquisition of real estate. All real estate acquired by the Utilities
Commission including water, sewer and other similar easements shall be acquired
in the name of the Utilities Commission.
   (H)   Bidding and procurement practices. Pursuant to KRS 424.260, the
Utilities Commission shall follow all Kentucky legal requirements with regard
to bidding and procurement practices. The Commission shall have the authority
to advertise for, accept bids and enter into contracts, without the Council's
approval.
   (I)   Delegation of authority. Any authority not specifically delegated to
the Utility Commission by this chapter is specifically reserved to the Mayor,
unless otherwise stated in the Kentucky Revised Statutes. Pursuant to KRS
96.200, any and all revenues generated from the operation of the water and
sewer services in the city, may be used only by the Commission as outlined in
this chapter.
   (J)   No conflict. Any previous ordinances or parts of ordinance in conflict
with this chapter are repealed. This chapter shall become effective on February
5, 2024. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is held
unconditional or otherwise invalid, such infirmity shall not affect the
validity of the remaining chapter.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-5-2024)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Damaging, destroying sewer facilities prohibited
Use of Public Sewers Required
   
51.015   Prohibition of unlawful disposal
   
51.016   Private disposal systems prohibited; exceptions
   
51.017   Mandatory connection
   
51.018   Special requirements applicable to pressurized sewer systems
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.030   Permit required; application; fee
   
51.031   Costs to be borne by owner
   
51.032   Separate sewers required
   
51.033   Use of existing sewers
   
51.034   Design considerations
   
51.035   Connection of downspouts, basement drains and the like prohibited
   
51.036   Direct taps into mains
   
51.037   Excavations
   
51.038   Final connection to be supervised
   
51.039   Sewers to be plugged upon demolition of building
Discharge Regulations
   
51.050   Compliance with federal standards of safety
   
51.051   Discharge of unpolluted waters prohibited
   
51.052   Prohibited discharges
   
51.053   Limited discharges
   
51.054   Protection from accidental discharge
   
51.055   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.056   Pretreatment, flow equalizing facilities to be maintained by owner
   
51.057   Monitoring facilities
   
51.058   User to provide monitoring information
   
51.059   Standards of analysis
   
51.060   Wastes to be discharged into building sewers only; exception
   
51.061   Special agreements
   
51.062   Dilution of wastewater discharge
   
51.063   State requirements
   
51.064   City’s right of revision
   
51.065   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
51.080   Right of entry
   
51.081   Information concerning industrial processes; confidentiality
   
51.082   Liability for damage
 
   
51.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Applications for sewer service, see §
52.002
   Sewer tap fee, see §
52.058
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20ºC, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewers,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER or HOUSE CONNECTION. The extension from the building drain to
the public sewer system or other place of disposal.
   COMMISSION. The Utility Commission created by §
50.01.
   DIRECTOR. The person employed by the Utility Commission as Director of the
entire municipal water and sewer systems, or his or her authorized deputy,
agent or representative.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of FLOATABLE FAT if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   OPERATOR. The operator of wastewater treatment works.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen-ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen-ion
concentration of 10-7.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM. The common sewers pump stations, grinder pumps,
pressure sewers and other appurtenances controlled by the Department.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. (The preferred term is WASTEWATER,
defined below.)
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer for conveying water,
groundwater, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter than either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than effluent criteria
in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality
standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to sanitary sewers and
wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standard point of
source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together
with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 51.002 DAMAGING, DESTROYING SEWER FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No persons shall intentionally or wantonly break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the wastewater facilities.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of criminal mischief.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, see KRS 512.020 through 512.030
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 51.015 PROHIBITION OF UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where a federal national pollutant discharge
elimination system (NPDES) permit has been duly issued and is currently valid
for such discharge.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.016 PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater where public sanitary sewer service is available, except septic
tanks may be maintained for overflow purposes only on a pressurized system.
   (B)   In case public sanitary sewer service is not available (as defined in
§
51.001), any private facility intended for wastewater disposal shall meet all
applicable regulations and requirements of the County Department of Health and
all appropriate state agencies.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.017 MANDATORY CONNECTION.
   (A)   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, easement or right-of-way in which there is
now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer or which
otherwise have reasonable access to a public sanitary sewer, is hereby required
at such owners’ expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of official
notice to do so.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as described in division (A) of this
section, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 90 days
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled
with suitable material, except septic tanks may be maintained for overflow
purposes only on a pressurized system.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO PRESSURIZED SEWER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Electrical power.
      (1)   All property owners who are to be served by the pressurized sewage
system shall be required to furnish at their expense a 230 volt, single phase,
60 cycle feeder for supplying electrical power to the sewage ejection pump. The
feeder circuit shall have a minimum of 20 amp capacity. The service shall be
installed in conformance with the National Electrical Code, the local
electrical inspection agency, and the electrical utility power supply.
      (2)   The property owner shall furnish the electrical power supply
described in division (A)(1) of this section by the time the system is
constructed on the subject property so that the electrical connection can be
made to the system.
   (B)   Grinder pumps.
      (1)   Any person, firm, business, corporation or property owner who seeks
to tap on to the sewer system and who is not covered by the 1982—1983 sewer
expansion project and must utilize the pressurized method of sewage disposal
must provide at its own expense the grinder pump which is installed at the
property and which is tapped into the sewer line served by the city.
      (2)   Any grinder pumps required by this section must be approved by the
Utility Commission before installation and must meet the specification set
forth in Ord. 2-84, passed on February 20, 1984, and any subsequent amendments
thereto. Ord. 2-84 and any subsequent amendments thereto are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in their entirety.
(Ord. 9-82, passed 6-21-1982; Ord. 2-84, passed 2-20-1984) Penalty, see §
51.999
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.030 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb the public sewer system without first
obtaining a written permit from the Director.
   (B)   A building sewer permit shall be obtained for new residential and
commercial service, and for service to new industrial establishments. The owner
or his or her agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the
Utility Commission. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Director. A permit and inspection fee as established by the Utility Commission
for a building sewer permit may be required by the Utility Commission at the
time the application is filed; exception may be given by the Director on a case
by case basis.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 14-2001,
passed 8-8-2001; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.031 COSTS TO BE BORNE BY OWNER.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify
the city and the Utility Commission from any loss or damage that may directly
or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (B)   User fee: the cost of the sanitary sewers and appurtenances shall be
apportioned among the owners of the land in a benefited area according to the
number of lots or parcels that can be serviced either by gravity flow sewer or
by use of a pump or mechanical equipment to force, lift or carry the approved
waste to the collecting line.
      (1)   This apportionment shall be to allow the Utility Commission to
recover up to 100% of the total expenses to install, construct, engineer or
other fees paid to or to be paid.
      (2)   The Utility Commission shall have the authority to exempt city
owned property, state owned property or property designated for public use from
the apportionment on a case by case basis.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 51.032 SEPARATE SEWERS REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another and it is not
feasible to construct another sewer to the rear building, the front building
sewer may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer until such time as it becomes feasible to construct a separate
sewer, but the Utility Commission does not and will not assume any obligation
or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single
connection aforementioned.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.033 USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Existing building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found on examination and test by the Director, to meet all
requirements of this chapter. Permit and inspection fees for new users of
existing building sewers shall be the same as for new building sewers.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 2-2025, passed
4-7-2025)
§ 51.034 DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavation, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the State Building Code, the State Plumbing Code and all other applicable laws,
rules and regulations.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer. This section applies only to gravity systems
and not pressurized systems.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.035 CONNECTION OF DOWNSPOUTS, BASEMENT DRAINS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains,
basement drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain, which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer, unless the connection is
approved by the Director for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.036 DIRECT TAPS INTO MAINS.
   In cases where it is necessary to connect a building sewer directly to a
sewer main, the tap shall be made by the builder and inspected by employees of
the Utility Commission and the actual cost thereof shall be paid by the
builder. The builder is responsible for uncovering the sewer main and for
backfilling the trench once the tap is completed. Where it is necessary to cut
a street, the builder shall obtain a permit from the city and shall open and
close the trench in conformance with city specifications.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.037 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.038 FINAL CONNECTION TO BE SUPERVISED.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Director when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the Director
or his or her representative.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 51.039 SEWERS TO BE PLUGGED UPON DEMOLITION OF BUILDING.
   The city shall release a wrecking permit for the demolition of a building
only after the applicant has signed a statement certifying that each sewer
service connection to the building has been or shall be capped or plugged with
a watertight seal prior to the completion of the wrecking project.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983)
DISCHARGE REGULATIONS
§ 51.050 COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL STANDARDS OF SAFETY.
   The disposal of any wastewater into the public sewer system by any person is
unlawful except in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (FWPCAA, Pub. L. No.
92-500) and any more stringent state or local standards.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.051 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
waters such as stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or
cooling water to any sewer, except stormwater runoff from limited areas, which
stormwater may be polluted at that time, may be discharged to the sanitary
sewer by permission of the Director.
   (B)   Stormwater other than that exempted under division (A) of this
section, and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to natural
outlets or sewers specifically designated as storm sewer and approved by the
city and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted industrial cooling water or
process waters may be designated, on approval of the city, to a storm sewer or
natural outlet.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.052 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any water containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any waste treatment process or the effect maintenance
or operation of the sewer system, and constitute a hazard to humans or animals,
create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the
wastewater treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0, or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater works; and
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities, such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the
like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.053 LIMITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Generally. The following described substances, materials, waters or
wastes shall be limited to discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or
quantities which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process
or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will
not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
The Director may set additional limitations or limitations more stringent than
those established in the regulations below if in his or her opinion such more
severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his
or her opinion as to the acceptability, the Director shall give consideration
to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials or construction of the sewers, the
wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on
materials or characteristics of wastes or wastewaters discharged to the
sanitary sewer shall not be violated without written approval of the Director.
   (B)   Restricted discharges. No user shall contribute, or cause to be
contributed, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will
interfere with the operation or performance of the POTW. These general
prohibitions apply to all such users of a POTW whether or not the user is
subject to national categorical pretreatment standards or any other national,
state or local pretreatment standard or requirement. A user shall not
contribute the following substances to any POTW:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint or
less than 140ºF or 60ºC using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Pollutants which will cause corrosive structural damage to the
POTW, but in no case discharges with pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0
unless the works is specifically designed to accommodate such discharges;
      (3)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which will cause interference with the POTW;
      (4)   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause obstruction
to the flow in the POTW resulting in interference;
      (5)   Heat amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceeds 104ºF (40ºC) unless the state,
upon request of the POTW, approves alternate temperature limits;
      (6)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scum, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the
POTW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be noncompliant with sludge use or
disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act;
any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act or state criteria applicable to the sludge management
method being used;
      (7)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES/KPDES
and/or sludge disposal system permit or the receiving water quality standards;
      (8)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (9)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the Director;
      (10)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils or products of mineral oil origin;
      (11)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, to constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, to create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or to
exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard. A toxic
pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant identified
pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act;
      (12)   Wastewater from industrial plants or commercial businesses
containing floatable oils, fat or grease, whether emulsified or not, in excess
of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperature 32° to 150ºF (0° to 65ºC);
      (13)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removable in the POTW,
but in no case, wastewater with a color at the introduction into the POTW that
exceeds 300 ADMI units;
      (14)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, motels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage
originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purposes of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers (pursuant to this
chapter). The installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a
three-fourths HP motor or greater shall be subject to review and approval;
      (15)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances
exceeding limits which may be established by the city;
      (16)   Any radioactive wastes or isotypes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (17)   Any waste(s) or wastewater(s) classified as a hazardous waste by
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) without a 60-day prior
notification of such discharge to the Utility Commission. This notification
must include the name of the hazardous waste, the EPA hazardous waste number,
type of discharge, volume of discharge and time of occurrence(s). The Director
may prohibit or condition the discharge(s) at any time;
      (18)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, from suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes;
      (19)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
      (20)   Waters or wastes which have characteristics based on a 24-hour
composite sample, or a shorter period composite sample if more representative
which exceed the following normal maximum domestic wastewater parameter
concentrations:
 
Parameter Maximum Allowable Concentration Without Surcharge (mg/l)
BOD       300
TSS       300
NH3-N     30
 
      (21)   In addition to the requirements stated above, the following
limitations are established for characteristics of any wastewaters to be
discharged into the municipal sewer system.
Parameter Max. Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Parameter            Max. Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Arsenic, total       0.02
Barium, total        6
Beryllium, total     0.5
Boron, total         1
Cadium, total        0.1
Chloride, total      250
Chromium, hexayalent 0.05
Chromium, total      0.5
COD                  750
Color                300 ADMI units*
Copper, total        1
Cyanide, amenable    0.01
Dissolved solids     1,500
Flouide              2
Iron, total          3
Lead, total          0.2
Magnesium, total     14
Manganese, total     0.2
Mercury, total       0.002
Nickle, total        0.2
PCB                  0
Phenols              1
Selenium, total      0.02
Silver, total        0.04
Sulfate, total       250
Sulfide              5
Zinc, total          1
* American Dye Manufacturers Institute (ADMI)
 
(Ord. 4-93, passed 4-5-1993; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004, passed
12-20-2004)
§ 51.054 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Generally. Each significant user shall provide protection from
accidental and/or slug discharges or prohibited materials or other substances
regulated by this chapter. Facilities to prevent accidental and slug discharges
or prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user’s
own costs and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating
procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the Utility
Commission for review, and shall be approved by the Utility Commission before
construction of the facility. Construction shall be completed within 120 days
of approval of plans and notification by the Director. Once every two years,
the Director will determine whether each significant industrial user needs to
develop a plan to control slug discharges.
      (1)   If the Director decides that a slug control plan is needed, the
plan shall contain the following:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices;
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals;
         (c)   Procedures for notifying the POTW; and
         (d)   Prevention procedures for spills.
      (2)   In the case of an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of
the user to immediately telephone and notify the POTW of the incident. The
notification shall include location of discharge, type of waste, concentration
and volume, and corrective actions.
   (B)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit, to the Director, a detailed written report describing
the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or property; not
shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other
liability which may be imposed by this subchapter or other applicable law.
   (C)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 4-5-1993; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004, passed
12-20-2004)
§ 51.055 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Director they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts of any flammable wastes, sand
or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Director and shall be located as to
be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the
maintaining of these interceptors the owner(s) shall be responsible for the
proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and
shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal. The Utility
Commission may require reporting of such information for its review. Any
removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by owner(s)
personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
Interceptors shall also comply with applicable regulations of the County Health
Department.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 4-5-1993; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004, passed
12-20-2004)
§ 51.056 PRETREATMENT, FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES TO BE MAINTAINED BY OWNER.
   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.057 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   When required by the Utility Commission, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable
structure together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. This structure, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Utility
Commission. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense
and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.058 USER TO PROVIDE MONITORING INFORMATION.
   The Utility Commission may require a user of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this chapter. These
requirements may include:
   (A)   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
   (B)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
   (C)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
   (D)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent or
other materials important to sewer use control;
   (E)   A plot plan of sewers on the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
   (F)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities;
   (G)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer; and
   (H)   Submission of periodic reports concerning any information required by
this section.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.059 STANDARDS OF ANALYSIS.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of water and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling method, location, times, durations, frequencies and record keeping
procedures are to be determined on an individual basis and are subject to
approval of the Director.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.060 WASTES TO BE DISCHARGED INTO BUILDING SEWERS ONLY; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any waste or wastewater directly into a
manhole or other opening in a public sewer other than through an approved
building sewer, unless he or she has been issued a permit by the Utility
Commission. If a permit is issued for such direct discharge, the user shall pay
the applicable charges and fees and shall meet such other conditions as
required by the Utility Commission.
   (B)   This permit may include restrictions as to the specific location of
discharge, the time of day the discharge is to occur, the volume of the
discharge, and the wastewater constituents and characteristics. If a permit is
granted for discharge of such wastes into a public sewer, the user shall meet
such other conditions as required by the Utility Commission. Any violation of
permit conditions shall constitute cause for withdrawal of the permit.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.061 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the Utility Commission and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the Utility Commission for treatment.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.062 DILUTION OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal
categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other pollutant specific
limitation developed by the city or state. Dilution may be permitted to
pretreatment of compliance wastes if provided for in said users permit.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 4-5-1993)
§ 51.063 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this subchapter.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 4-5-1993)
§ 51.064 CITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right, at the recommendation of the Director, to
establish more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the POTW
if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in this subchapter.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 4-5-1993; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 51.065 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of the federal categorical pretreatment standards for
a particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent
than limitations imposed under this subchapter for sources in that subcategory,
shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under `this subchapter. The
Director shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting
requirements under 40 C.P.R. § 403.12.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 4-5-1993; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 51.080 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Director and other duly authorized employees of the Utility
Commission bearing proper credentials and identification shall, at reasonable
times and upon reasonable notice, except in emergency situations, be permitted
to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to discharge to the public sewer
system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Director and other duly authorized employees of the Utility
Commission bearing proper credentials and identification shall, at reasonable
times and upon reasonable notice, except in emergency situations, be permitted
to enter all private properties through which the Utility Commission or the
city holds an easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the wastewater facilities lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent
work, if any, on the easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms
of the easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004,
passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.081 INFORMATION CONCERNING INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES; CONFIDENTIALITY.
   The Director or other duly authorized employees are authorized to obtain
information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system. The industry
may withhold information considered confidential. The industry must establish
that the revelation to the public of the information in question might result
in an advantage to competitors.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 51.082 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
51.080(A), the Director or duly authorized employees of the Utility Commission
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
Utility Commission employees, and the Utility Commission shall indemnify the
company against loss or damage to its property by the Utility Commission
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
51.057.
(Ord. 5-83, passed 3-21-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served by the Utility Commission with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a time limit of 30 days from the notice for the
satisfactory correction thereof.
   (B)   Any person who will continue in violation beyond the time limit
specified by this section shall have their water service terminated and the
permit to use the public sewer system shall be revoked and they shall pay a
civil penalty to the Utility Commission in the following amounts.
      (1)   For a violation of §§
51.016 or
51.017, a civil penalty of $50 per day for each violation for each day that the
violation continues.
      (2)   For a violation of any provision of this chapter other than §§
51.016 or
51.017, an amount determined by the Utility Commission not exceeding $250 for
each violation. Each day in which the violation shall continue may be deemed a
separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
liable to the city or the Utility Commission for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the city or the Utility Commission by reason of the violation.
   (D)   Service of notice shall be considered complete upon mailing of a copy
of the notice to the person in violation by certified U.S. mail to that
person’s current water or sewer billing address, or if none, to that person’s
last known mailing address, or by personal delivery to that person.
   (E)   All decisions by the Director under this §
51.999 may be appealed within 20 days to the Utility Commission and shall be
final by the Commission and shall be appealable to a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (F)   All civil penalties under this section may be added to the water or
sewer bill of the person in violation and if not paid will result in
termination of water or sewer service. In addition, the Utility Commission may
pursue recovery of any civil penalty from the responsible person through the
court system. The person owing the civil penalty shall pay the Utility
Commission’s reasonable attorney fees and costs incurred in the collection of
any penalties owed under this §
51.999.
(Ord. 15-2011, passed 12-5-2011)
CHAPTER 52: WATERWORKS SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Applications for water and sewer service
   
52.003   Water taps and connections
   
52.004   Purchase and use of water
   
52.005   Ownership of lines and meters
   
52.006   State law incorporated by reference
   
52.007   Amendment of regulations
Terms and Conditions of Service
   
52.020   Scope of regulations
   
52.021   Supervision of taps and connections
   
52.022   Disconnection of service
   
52.023   Discontinuing service
   
52.024   Mailing of bills and notices
   
52.025   Reading of meters
   
52.026   Reconnection
   
52.027   Deposit
   
52.028   Meters
   
52.029   Interruptions of service
   
52.030   City’s and Utility Commission’s non-liability for damages caused by
line breaks
   
52.031   Boilers and pressure vessels
   
52.032   Users’ premises subject to inspection
   
52.033   Piping
   
52.034   Maintenance of service lines
   
52.035   Liability of customers
   
52.036   Water to be used for domestic consumption only
   
52.037   Easements
   
52.038   Water for building and construction purposes
   
52.039   Special terms and conditions
   
52.040   Line extensions
   
52.041   Customer complaints
Water Rates and Charges
   
52.055   Monthly water rates
   
52.056   [Reserved]
   
52.057   [Reserved]
   
52.058   [Reserved]
   
52.059   Annual rate increase and out of city charges
Sewer and Wastewater Treatment Charges
   
52.070   Purpose
   
52.071   Definitions
   
52.072   Separation of service revenues and expenses
   
52.073   Sewer rates and charges
   
52.074   Financial management system
   
52.075   Billing, delinquency and discontinuance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of LaGrange, Kentucky acting by and through its City Council
or such other body as shall be the governing body of that city under state law
at any given time.
   CUSTOMER. A property owner or his or her agent who has agreed to purchase
water from the city.
   DIRECTOR. The person employed by the Utility Commission as Director of the
entire municipal water and sewer systems, or his or her authorized deputy,
agent or representative.
   SYSTEM. The municipal waterworks system of the city, as now or hereafter
constituted.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 52.002 APPLICATIONS FOR WATER AND SEWER SERVICE.
   Each customer must make written application to the Utility Commission for
water and sewer service, and this application, including service received
thereunder, is not assignable by the customer.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 52.003 WATER TAPS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Utility Commission shall determine that it is feasible to
provide water service to a customer, the Utility Commission shall install,
maintain and operate a main distribution pipeline or lines from the system’s
source of water supply and shall further install and maintain, at the Utility
Commission’s expense, such portion of the necessary water service lines as may
be needed to bring water from a water main to the lot or easement line of a
customer. However, if the necessary water service line from the water main to
the water meter of a customer is unusually long, as determined by the Director,
within guidelines fixed by the Utility Commission, the customer may be required
to pay a portion of the cost of the service line. The expense borne by the
Utility Commission in any event shall include the necessary tap, fittings and
shut-off valve, which items shall belong to the Utility Commission.
   (B)   Each customer shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, that
portion of the service line from the lot or easement line to his or her
premises, including a stop and waste cock at the end of the house side of his
or her service, which items shall belong to the customer. The minimum earth
cover of the customer’s service shall be 30 inches. The Director shall
determine the size and kind of service to be installed.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004, passed
12-20-2004)
§ 52.004 PURCHASE AND USE OF WATER.
   (A)   Each customer shall be entitled to purchase from the city, pursuant to
such agreements as may from time to time be provided and required by the city,
such water as the customer may desire, subject, however, to the provisions of
this chapter and to those further rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Utility Commission. However, should a customer sell or dispose of a portion
of his or her property or subdivide the same, that customer, or the new owner
of each such new tract, may not demand water and taps without paying connection
fees for each tract to be served.
   (B)   In the event that the total water supply shall be insufficient to meet
all of the needs of the customers, or in the event that there is a shortage of
water, the city or its Director may prorate the water available among the
various customers, on such deemed equitable by the city or its Director, and
may also prescribe a schedule of hours covering use of water and require
adherence thereto or prohibit the use of water for specified purposes, for such
appropriate period of time as may be necessary under the circumstances.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004, passed
12-20-2004)
§ 52.005 OWNERSHIP OF LINES AND METERS.
   (A)   The city shall own all lines, meters and other water equipment that
are part of the system.
   (B)   All fire hydrants shall not be used without the permission of a duly
authorized representative of the Utility Commission. Use of such fire hydrants
without permission shall constitute a theft of water and shall be subject to
such penalties as provided by the statutes of the Commonwealth for such
offense. In addition to such criminal penalties, the offender shall have his or
her water service discontinued immediately.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004, passed
12-20-2004)
§ 52.006 STATE LAW INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   Any applicable state law which now or may hereafter exist is incorporated
herein and made a part of this chapter. The Utility Commission may use any
powers therein contained, in addition to those herein set out.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 52.007 AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   These regulations may be changed or amended by the Utility Commission.
   (B)   However, those sections of this chapter based on Ord. 4-83, passed 3-
7-1983, shall not be amended without the permission of the holders of a
majority (in amount) of outstanding bonds of the city, plus the permission of
the Farmers Home Administration, and the United States Department of
Agriculture, so long as the United States is the owner or issuer of any bonds
issued by the city and so long as any of the bonds remain unpaid.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004)
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SERVICE
§ 52.020 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   The regulations, prohibitions and conditions contained in this subchapter
shall apply to all customers of the municipal waterworks system.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983)
§ 52.021 SUPERVISION OF TAPS AND CONNECTIONS.
   All taps and connections to the mains of the Utility Commission shall be
made by or under the direction and supervision of the Director, or other duly
authorized employees of the Utility Commission.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004, passed
12-20-2004)
§ 52.022 DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   Water service may be discontinued by the Director for any violation of any
rule, regulation or condition of service and especially for any of the
following reasons:
   (A)   Misrepresentation in the application or contract as to the property or
fixtures to be supplied, or as to additional use of water or sewer service, or
as to unusual or extraordinary use of sewer facilities;
   (B)   Failure to report to the Utility Commission additions to the property
or fixtures to be supplied, or of additional use of water;
   (C)   Resale or giving away of water;
   (D)   Waste or misuse of water due to improper or imperfect service pipes or
failure to keep same in suitable state of repair;
   (E)   Tampering with meter, meter seal, service or valves, or permitting
such tampering by others;
   (F)   Connection, cross-connection or permitting the same, of any separate
water supply to premises which receive water from the Utility Commission; and
   (G)   Nonpayment of bills.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004, passed
12-20-2004)
§ 52.023 DISCONTINUING SERVICE.
   Any customer desiring to discontinue the water service to his or her
premises for any reason must give notice of discontinuance in writing to the
Utility Commission; otherwise, a customer shall remain liable for all water
used and services rendered to such premises by the Utility Commission unless
the notice is received by the Utility Commission.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 52.024 MAILING OF BILLS AND NOTICES.
   Bills and notices relating to the conduct of the business of the Utility
Commission will be mailed to the customer at the address listed on the
application for water and sewer service unless a change of address has been
filed in writing with the Utility Commission; and the Utility Commission shall
not otherwise be responsible for delivery of any bill or notice nor will the
customer be excused from the payment of any bill or any performance required in
the notice.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 52.025 READING OF METERS.
   Meters will be read monthly.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004, passed
12-20-2004; Ord. 9-2014, passed 6-2-2014; Ord. 18-2015, passed 12-7-2015)
§ 52.026 RECONNECTION.
   Where the water supply to the customer has been discontinued for nonpayment
of delinquent bills, a charge of $50 will be made for reconnection of water
service, but the reconnection will not be made until after all delinquent bills
and other charges, if any owed by the customer to the Utility Commission have
been paid.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004; Ord. 18-2015,
passed 12-7-2015)
§ 52.027 DEPOSIT.
   The Utilities Commission shall have the right to require an amount as may be
specified or revised from time to time to be placed on deposit with the
Utilities Commission by a customer as assurance for the payment of water and
sewer bills by such customer. Any amount remaining after application to the
final bill(s) is refundable when the customer terminates service. Interest on
deposits shall be paid if required by law. Deposits are in addition to the
origination fee required by §
52.057.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 22-2006, passed
10-1-2006; Ord. 9-2014, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 52.028 METERS.
   (A)   All meters shall be installed, renewed and maintained at the expense
of the Utility Commission, and the Utility Commission reserves the right to
determine the size and type of meter used.
   (B)   Upon written request of any customer, the meter serving that customer
shall be tested by the Utility Commission. The test will be made without charge
to the customer if the meter has not been tested within five years preceding
the requested test; otherwise, a charge of $25 will be made and then only if
the test indicates meter accuracy within the limits of 2%. If a meter is
inaccurate in excess of 2%, adjustments shall be made for the two preceding
months prior to test according to the inaccuracy in excess of 2%.
   (C)   Where a meter has ceased to register, or meter reading cannot be
obtained, the quantity of water consumed will be based upon an average of the
prior six months’ consumption, considering the conditions of water service
prevailing during the period in which the meter fails to register.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004, passed
12-20-2004)
§ 52.029 INTERRUPTIONS OF SERVICE.
   The Utility Commission shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate
interruption of service, and, when such interruptions occur, will endeavor to
reestablish service with the shortest possible delay. When the service is
interrupted, all consumers affected by the interruption will be notified in
advance whenever possible.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 52.030 CITY’S AND UTILITY COMMISSION’S NON-LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES CAUSED BY
LINE BREAKS.
   The Utility Commission and the city shall in no event be held responsible
for any claim made against them by reason of the breaking of any mains or
service pipes, or by reason of any other interruption of the supply of water
caused by the failure or breakage of machinery or stoppage for necessary
repairs. No person shall be entitled to damages nor for any portion of a
payment refunded for any interruption of service which in the opinion of the
Utility Commission may be deemed necessary.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 52.031 BOILERS AND PRESSURE VESSELS.
   Customers having boilers or pressure vessels receiving a supply of water
from the Utility Commission must have a check valve on the water supply line
and a vacuum valve on the steam line to prevent collapse in case water supply
from the Utility Commission is discontinued or interrupted for any reason, with
or without notice.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.032 USERS’ PREMISES SUBJECT TO INSPECTION.
   The premises receiving a supply of water and all service lines, meters, and
fixtures, including any fixtures within the premises, shall at all reasonable
hours and upon reasonable notice (except in emergency situations), be subject
to inspection by the duly authorized employees of the Utility Commission.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 52.033 PIPING.
   Piping on the premises of a customer must be so installed that connections
are conveniently located with respect to the Utility Commission lines and
mains. The customer shall provide a place for metering which is unobstructed
and accessible at all times. The customer shall furnish and maintain a cutoff
valve on his or her side of the meter, and the Utility Commission will furnish
a like valve on its side of the meter.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.034 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LINES.
   The customer’s service line shall be installed and maintained by the
customer at his or her own expense in a safe and efficient manner and in
accordance with the Utility Commission’s rules and regulations and with the
regulations of the County Department of Health.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.035 LIABILITY OF CUSTOMERS.
   If any loss or damage to the property of the Utility Commission or any
accident or other injury to persons or property is caused by or results from
the negligence or wrongful action of the customer, member of his or her
household, his or her agent, or employee, the cost of the necessary repairs or
replacements shall be paid by the customer to the Utility Commission, and any
liability otherwise resulting shall be that of the customer.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 52.036 WATER TO BE USED FOR DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION ONLY.
   Water furnished by the Utility Commission may be used for domestic
consumption by the customer, members of the customer’s household and employees
only. The customer shall not sell or give the water to any other person.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.037 EASEMENTS.
   Each customer shall grant or convey, or shall cause to be granted or
conveyed, to the Utility Commission, a recordable perpetual easement and right-
of-way across any property owned or controlled by the customer, whenever the
easement or right-of-way is necessary for the Utility Commission water
facilities and lines so as to enable the Utility Commission to furnish service
to the customer. This easement shall be at no cost to the Utility Commission as
long as it is parallel and adjacent to a public road or any property boundary.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 52.038 WATER FOR BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES.
   (A)   Water for building or construction purposes will be furnished by meter
measurement only after suitable origination fee has been made. The amount of
the fee shall be determined by the Utility Commission based upon the size of
the construction work contemplated. All water for building or construction
purpose, as set forth in the permit, must pass through one and the same meter.
   (B)   Water so supplied shall be discharged through a hose or pipe directly
upon the material to be made wet, or into a barrel or other container, and in
no case upon the ground or into or through a ditch or trench; and all use of
water by any party other than applicant, or use of water for any purpose or
upon any premises not so stated or described in the application, must be
prevented by the applicant, or water service may be discontinued to the
applicant without notice.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004, passed
12-20-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.039 SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   Special terms and conditions may be made where water is used by the city or
community for public purposes such as fire extinguishment, public parks and the
like.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983)
§ 52.040 LINE EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The Utility Commission will construct extensions to its water lines to
points within its service area, but the Utility Commission is not required to
make any such installation unless the customer pays to the Utility Commission
the entire cost of the installation.
   (B)   All line extensions shall be evidenced by a contract signed by the
Utility Commission and the person advancing funds for the extension.
   (C)   If refund of the advance is to be made, the following method shall
apply: the refund shall be in an amount equal to 20% of the total gross revenue
of water sales per year for each service connected to the new extension
prescribed in the agreement, for a period not to exceed five years, provided
that the aggregate payments do not exceed the total amount deposited.
   (D)   No refund shall be made from any revenue received from any lines
leading up to or beyond the particular line extension covered by contract.
   (E)   All decisions in connection with the manner of installation of any
extension and maintenance thereof shall remain in the exclusive control of the
Utility Commission; the extension shall be the property of the Utility
Commission; and no other person shall have any right, title or interest
therein.
   (F)   The Utility Commission may refuse service to any person, not presently
a customer, when in the opinion of the Utility Commission the capacity of the
facilities will not permit such service.
(Ord. 4-83, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004, passed
12-20-2004)
§ 52.041 CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS.
   Complaints may be made to the Director, whose decision may be appealed to
the Utility Commission within ten days; otherwise, the Director’s decision will
be final.
WATER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.055 MONTHLY WATER RATES.
   (A)   The monthly water rates shall be set pursuant to §
52.059.
   (B)   Three percent county school tax shall be added to the above rates. Six
percent state sales tax (when applicable) to be added to above rates.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 8-2-2021; Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 52.056 [RESERVED].
§ 52.057 [RESERVED].
§ 52.058 [RESERVED].
§ 52.059 ANNUAL RATE INCREASE AND OUT OF CITY CHARGES.
   (A)   A 5% increase or less as determined by the Commission, by inclusion in
the annual Utility Commission budget which after adoption will be provided to
the City Council.
   (B)   The increase will be added each year to the water and sewer rate
charges as set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   All out of city customers will pay an additional 25% on water and
sewer fees and charges other than monthly services.
   (D)   Any additional increases beyond the 5% must be approved by the City
Council.
   (E)   The Commission will post on its website (www.lagrangeutilities.com)
and in its office a rate schedule setting forth the current water and sewer
rates and charges.
   (F)   Any price increases from its supplier, namely, Oldham County Water
District, shall be automatically added to the current rates.
(Ord. 8, 2021, passed 8-2-2021; Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-5-2024)
SEWER AND WASTEWATER TREATMENT CHARGES
§ 52.070 PURPOSE.
   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the Utility
Commission to collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the
municipal wastewater treatment works. The proceeds of such charges so derived
will be used for the purpose of operating, maintaining and paying the financial
obligations of the public wastewater treatment works.
(Ord. 18-95, passed 1-2-1996; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 52.071 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMMONIA NITROGEN (NH3-N). The quantity of ammonia in the wastewater, sewage
or other liquids, as measured by standard laboratory test, and expressed in
terms of equivalent nitrogen, in units of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l)
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGES. Charges levied on users of the sewage treatment system
to support the annual debt service obligations of the system.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGES. Charges levied on users of the sewage
treatment system whose contribution contains biological oxygen demand (BOD),
suspended solids (SS) or ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N) in concentrations which
exceed limits specified herein for such pollutants and who are permitted to
make such contributions to the system by decision of the Utility Commission.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 300 mg/l, as SS concentration of not more than 300 mg/l and a NH3-
N of not more than 30 mg/l.
   OM&R CHARGES. Charges levied on users of the wastewater treatment system to
offset the cost of operations and maintenance of the system including normal
replacement costs.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Those functions that result in expenditures
during the useful life of the treatment works for material, labor, utilities
and other items which are necessary for management and operation of the system
according to its design and construction, the term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
includes replacement as in REPLACEMENT.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
are designed and constructed.
   SEWER USER CHARGES. Charges levied on all users who discharge, cause or
permit the discharge of sewage into the public wastewater treatment system.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and system for the storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation for municipal sewage, domestic sewage or liquid
industrial wastes. These include domestic sewage or liquid industrial wastes.
These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection systems,
pumping, power and other equipment and their appurtenance; extensions,
improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations thereof, elements essential
to provide a reliable recycled supply such as standby treatment units and clear
well facilities; and any works, including site acquisition or the land that
will be an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from such treatment (including land for
composting sludge, temporary storage of such compost and land used for the
storage of treated wastewater in land treatment systems before land
application); or any other method or system for preventing, abating, reducing,
storing, treating, separating or disposing of municipal waste or industrial
waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary sewer systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   WASTEWATER FLOW METER. A device which measures the volume of wastewater
flows.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device.
(Ord. 18-95, passed 1-2-1996; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 52.072 SEPARATION OF SERVICE REVENUES AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   The revenues collected, as a result of the sewer user charges levied,
shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the Sewer Revenues
Funds.
   (B)   The Sewer Revenues Fund shall be used only for the purpose of paying
operations, maintenance and replacement costs of the wastewater treatment
system and to meet the debt service obligations of said system. Monies which
have been transferred from other sources to meet temporary shortages in the
Sewer Revenues Fund shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the sewer service charge rates for operation,
maintenance, replacement and debt service obligations. The sewer services rates
shall be adjusted such that the transferred monies will be returned to their
respective accounts within six months of the fiscal year in which the monies
were borrowed.
   (C)   All revenues and expenses of the Utility Commission’s wastewater
treatment system shall be maintained and accounted for separately from other
Utility Commission utilities such as the water and/or gas system.
(Ord. 18-95, passed 1-2-1996; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 52.073 SEWER RATES AND CHARGES.
   The Utility Commission shall publish on its website and make publicly
available a current schedule of rates and charges to users of its sewer,
wastewater treatment and stormwater systems, including rates and charges for
operation, maintenance, repair, replacement, excavations, tapping fees,
portable meter rentals, line extensions, disconnections, monitoring costs, debt
service fees, and all other charges and fees to residential, commercial or
multiuser customers, both inside or outside the city limits, subject to
limitations under § 52.060. Any and all changes to sewer rates, charges and
fees shall be approved at a public hearing of the Utility Commission and
properly advertised in accordance with KRS Chapter 424, published on the
Utility Commission's secure public web site, and made available for public
inspection and copying as part of the public record.
(Ord. 8-2021, passed 8-2-2021)
§ 52.074 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The Utility Commission shall maintain financial records to accurately
account for revenues generated by the treatment system and expenditures for
operations and maintenance of the system, including normal replacement costs.
   (B)   The Utility Commission shall review not less often than annually the
sewage contribution of users, the total cost of operation and maintenance of
the sewage works, debt service obligation, and sewer user charges. Based on
such review, the city shall revise, when necessary, the schedule of sewer user
charges to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain an equitable distribution of operations and maintenance
costs among users of the treatment system;
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenues to offset costs associated with the
proper operation and maintenance of the sewage system, including normal
replacement costs, and to meet debt service requirements; and
      (3)   Excessive strength surcharges shall be reviewed at the time of and
in conjunction with the review of sewer user charges. Surcharge rates shall be
revised where necessary to reflect current treatment and monitoring costs.
(Ord. 18-95, passed 1-2-1996; Ord. 21-2004, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 52.075 BILLING, DELINQUENCY AND DISCONTINUANCE.
   (A)   All rates and charges for water, sewer and garbage shall be billed to
the owners or occupants of the premises. All users shall be billed monthly,
including any unpaid fees. Bills are due and will be dated and mailed on the
last working day of each month. Bills are payable at the Utility Commission or
to any designated agent. The due date shall be the fifteenth day of the month.
   (B)   A late charge of 10% of the utility service charges will be added to
each past due bill.
   (C)   All bills not paid on or before the past due date shall be deemed
delinquent. The Utility Commission shall mail the customer a written final
notice of the delinquency, and of the fact that the customer is entitled, upon
written request, to a hearing on the question of termination of service. If a
delinquent bill is not paid within ten days after the date the final notice is
mailed, and if no hearing is requested, or if a hearing is requested and timely
held and the customer’s delinquency is thereby established, the water supply to
the customer may be discontinued without further notice. If, however, prior to
discontinuance of service, there is delivered to the Utilities Commission, or
to its employee empowered to discontinue service, a written certificate signed
by a physician, a registered nurse or a public health officer stating that, in
the opinion of the certifier, discontinuance of service will aggravate an
existing illness or infirmity on the affected premises, services shall not be
discontinued until the affected resident can make other living arrangements or
until ten days elapse from the time of the Utility Commission’s receipt of the
certification, whichever occurs first.
   (D)   If a deadline date falls on a Sunday or legal holiday, the deadline
shall be extended through the next working day.
   (E)   Any portion of a bill which remains unpaid 30 days after its due date
shall accrue interest at the rate of 12% per annum until paid.
   (F)   When any bill (including interest and penalty) remains unpaid for one
year after the date due, such bill shall be recorded in the land records of the
county by the Utility Commission and shall constitute a lien on the property.
If such lien (including interest and penalty) remains unpaid for a period of
one year after date of recordation, such property shall be subject to
foreclosure and sale. The lien shall include any reasonable attorney fees and
expenses of collection paid or agreed to be paid by the Utilities Commission
and awarded by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (G)   If the occupant of any premises is not also the owner, both the owner
and the occupant shall be jointly and severally liable and responsible for the
payment of the water, sewer and garbage bills, which, if unpaid, shall
constitute a lien upon the premises. A pre-disconnect notice shall be sent by
regular U.S. mail to both the owner and the occupants. If water service, sewer
service, or garbage pick up service is disconnected or discontinued by the
city’s Utility Commission by reason of billing delinquency in the payment of
any water, sewer or garbage bills, reconnection of such services shall not be
made until the owner or occupant pays all past due charges and penalties owed,
plus the amount of $50 as a disconnection and reconnection fee.
   (H)   The owner of any metered premises affected by division (G) of this
section may be exempted from that division by paying annually into a
delinquency fund. The amount to be paid each year will be determined as
follows: the total dollar amount of delinquencies across all affected metered
premises will be divided between the total number of affected metered premises:
that number shall then by multiplied by the number of affected metered premises
owned by each individual owner who wishes to be exempted. The annual fee shall
be recalculated every two years using the average dollar amount of
delinquencies of the prior two years. Annual fees must be paid by January 15 of
each year to be exempt from division (G) of this section.
(Ord. 18-95, passed 1-2-1996; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004,
passed 12-20-2004; Ord. 9-2014, passed 6-2-2014; Ord. 18-2015, passed 12-7-
2015; Ord. 2-2018, passed 3-5-2018; Ord. 16-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Accumulation of garbage prohibited; regulations for disposing of
garbage
   
53.03   Garbage to be properly stored; garbage disposal services to be utilized
   
53.04   Garbage franchise; collection
   
53.05   Residential rates
   
53.06   Commercial rates
   
53.07   When charges due; delinquent charges
Landfills
   
53.20   Permit required to dump or fill in city limits
   
53.21   Permit application
   
53.22   Application fee
 
   
53.98   Violations
Cross-reference:
   Franchises, see
TSO VII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL. Includes any commercial and industrial business and any
apartments. COMMERCIAL shall also include hospitals, restaurants, churches,
motels and all of the similar entities not included in the definition of
RESIDENTIAL.
   GARBAGE. All household debris, trash, grass clippings, twigs, leaves and
similar materials such as would be disposable in a 20-gallon garbage can or
plastic garbage or trash bag, including, but not limited to, all wastes
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food and
wastes from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   RESIDENTIAL. Any single-family residence.
(Ord. 2-88, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 53.02 ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE PROHIBITED; REGULATIONS FOR DISPOSING OF
GARBAGE.
   (A)   No person shall accumulate or permit the accumulation of garbage or
trash upon any property owned, occupied or otherwise controlled by such person,
firm or corporation within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   No person shall burn, bury or otherwise dispose of any garbage or
trash upon any property within the corporate limits of the city, or convey or
dump such garbage or trash upon the streets or other public property owned by
the city.
(Ord. 2-88, passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.03 GARBAGE TO BE PROPERLY STORED; GARBAGE DISPOSAL SERVICES TO BE
UTILIZED.
   (A)   Garbage shall be kept in proper receptacles and shall be placed in a
convenient location on such day as it is specified for pickup in the respective
area.
   (B)   All owners or renters of single-family residences within the city
limits shall utilize the garbage pickup and disposal services as provided by
the city through authorized franchise and pay a fee for such services.
(Ord. 2-88, passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.04 GARBAGE FRANCHISE; COLLECTION.
   (A)   The city shall designate and award a franchise and contract to such
person or corporation as may be necessary to collect the garbage and trash
within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Garbage shall be collected in accordance with the ordinance awarding
the franchise for garbage collection within the city.
(Ord. 2-88, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 53.05 RESIDENTIAL RATES.
   (A)   All single-family residences shall pay the appropriate charge as
designated from time to time through a franchise ordinance awarding a garbage
franchise to the successful bidder.
   (B)   (1)   This garbage service charge shall be collected by the City
Utilities Commission and the charge shall be added to the utility bill for each
single-family residence within the city.
      (2)   The city reserves the right to charge a collection fee of 10% of
the monthly charge to defray the costs of collection.
(Ord. 2-88, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 53.06 COMMERCIAL RATES.
   All commercial units and businesses shall be billed directly by the
franchise holder according to the provisions of the franchise resolution and
ordinance.
(Ord. 2-88, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 53.07 WHEN CHARGES DUE; DELINQUENT CHARGES.
   (A)   All charges for garbage collection due under this chapter and any
applicable franchise ordinances shall be due at the same time as the payment of
the utility bills with the city’s Utility Commission.
   (B)   After the tenth of the month, the Utility Commission may charge a 10%
penalty on unpaid balances and said penalty goes to the Utility Commission up
to 30 days stated in division (C).
   (C)   Charges remaining due and unpaid for a period of 30 days after they
become due shall be deemed delinquent and shall be subject to interest on said
amount at 12% per annum until paid.
   (D)   Failure to pay the outstanding charges for a period of 90 days may
result in the Utility Commission filing an action in the County District Court
for collection of the unpaid charges.
   (E)   Failure to pay the outstanding garbage collection charges and fees or
judgment after the 90-day period referred to in division (C) of this section
for a period of 45 days may result in the utility service to the offending
residence being terminated until such charges are paid.
(Ord. 2-88, passed 5-2-1988; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 21-2004, passed
12-20-2004)
LANDFILLS
§ 53.20 PERMIT REQUIRED TO DUMP OR FILL IN CITY LIMITS.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to bring in construction debris,
concrete, asphalt, trees, stumps, dirt or similar materials to be used as fill
on any property within the city limits must first obtain a permit from the city
to allow such dumping and filling to take place.
(Ord. 4-92, passed 4-6-1992) Penalty, see §
53.98
§ 53.21 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The person, firm or corporation seeking such a permit shall file an
application with the city setting forth such information as may be requested
thereon, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the person, firm or corporation seeking the
permit;
      (2)   The exact location and address of the property proposed to be
filled;
      (3)   The name and address of the owner of said property;
      (4)   The exact nature of the materials to be used as fill on the subject
property;
      (5)   Whether the applicant has obtained any permits from the Cabinet of
Natural Resources to allow such dumping and fill activities;
      (6)   What procedures and safeguards the applicant proposes to use to
ensure that adjoining properties and city residents will not be adversely
affected by the proposed fill activities and what closure procedures the
applicant proposes to use when the fill is complete; and
      (7)   The length of time the applicant proposes to use the property as a
fill site.
   (B)   (1)   Upon receiving the application, the City Clerk shall deliver a
copy of same to the Public Works Director who shall call a meeting of the
city’s Street Committee to discuss the application.
      (2)   If the city’s Street Committee approves the application, the permit
will be issued to the applicant. If the Committee denies the application, the
applicant may appeal to the full City Council which shall make the final
decision as to the granting or denial of the permit.
(Ord. 4-92, passed 4-6-1992; Ord. 4-2000, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 53.22 APPLICATION FEE.
   The applicant shall pay an application fee of $100 when filing said
application to defray the costs of review of the application, plus $10 per
inspection fee as needed.
(Ord. 4-92, passed 4-6-1992)
§ 53.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 54: STORMWATER REGULATIONS
Section
   
54.01   Adoption by reference
§ 54.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The stormwater ordinances of Oldham County are attached to the ordinance
codified herein as an exhibit and the contents described in those ordinances
are hereby fully adopted, approved and incorporated by reference, by the city,
as if set out in its entirety herein. See Oldham County Ordinances 05-830-326,
16-830-348, 04-830-217.
(Ord. 12-2018, passed 9-4-2018)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
Vehicle Equipment
   
70.40   Police car light requirements
 
   
70.99   General penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the BOULEVARD.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and other portions of the roadway between two
intersections that may be legally designated as crossing places and marked by
stanchions, paint lines or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles, whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   FUNERAL PROCESSION. Two or more vehicles accompanying the body of a deceased
person when each vehicle has its headlights on or is displaying a pennant
attached in such a manner as to be clearly visible to approaching traffic.
(KRS 189.378(1))
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not
one street crosses the other.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes all vehicles, as defined above except: road rollers;
road graders; farm tractors; vehicles on which power shovels are mounted;
construction equipment customarily used only on the site of construction and
which is not practical for the transportation of persons or property upon the
highways; vehicles that travel exclusively upon rails; vehicles propelled by
electric power obtained from overhead wires while being operated within any
municipality or where the vehicles do not travel more than five miles beyond
the city limits of any municipality; vehicles propelled by muscular power; and
electric low-speed scooters.
(KRS 189.010(19))
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and
footpaths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. That portion of any street, improved, designated or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on any street, except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county or city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any
of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this
traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose traffic regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks.
If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two
weeks, the City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go”, “Caution” or “Stop” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits
either turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the
signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at
another point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at another point as
may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed until
it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing yellow alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall
reduce its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by
the signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”. Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane, all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above the lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at that place prohibits
the turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic device or
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal or any commercial advertising. Nothing in
this section shall be construed as restricting any public department or public
utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or erecting
any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the city.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his or her discretion disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
§ 70.40 POLICE CAR LIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   All police cars or other police vehicles of the City Police Department shall
be equipped with a combination of red and blue flashing, rotating or
oscillating lights.
(Ord. 10-87, passed 1-4-1988)
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.001   Obstructing traffic
   
71.002   Reverse or U-turns
   
71.003   Backing vehicles
   
71.004   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.015   Duty of operator
   
71.016   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.030   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.031   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.032   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Funeral Processions
   
71.045   Funeral processions
Parades
   
71.060   Definitions
   
71.061   Permit required
   
71.062   Application for permit
   
71.063   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.064   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.065   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.066   Alternative permit
   
71.067   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.068   Contents of permit
   
71.069   Duties of permittee
   
71.070   Public conduct during parades
   
71.071   Revocation of permit
Speed Limits
   
71.085   Motor vehicles
   
71.086   Railroad trains
 
   
71.999   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.001 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this
division (C) rather than division (B) of this section.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.002 REVERSE OR U-TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.004 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway or building, the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.999
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.015 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident, in which any person is injured or
property damaged, to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render any assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.016 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.999
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.030 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)    In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates divisions
(C) and (D) above shall be subject to revocation of his or her operator’s
license under KRS 186.560.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.031 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
emergency vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as
possible to the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop
and remain stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) of this section, the operator of every vehicle
shall immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) of this section closer than 500 feet, nor shall he
or she drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block
where the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless
he or she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a Fire Department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire alarm unless the Fire Department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provisions of division (F) below shall apply to any driver
approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disable vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) above shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with at least two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the approaching
vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to safety
and traffic conditions.
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.032 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.999
FUNERAL PROCESSIONS
§ 71.045 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   A vehicle in a funeral procession has the right-of-way at an
intersection and may proceed through the intersection if the procession is led
by an escort vehicle displaying flashing yellow, red or blue lights, except:
      (1)   When the right-of-way is required by an emergency vehicle as
defined by KRS 189.910;
      (2)   When vehicles in the procession are directed otherwise by a police
or safety officer; or
      (3)   When the vehicle is a train or locomotive.
   (B)   Before assuming the right-of-way, a person who drives a vehicle in a
funeral procession shall exercise due caution with regard to crossing traffic.
   (C)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not drive the vehicle between the vehicles of the funeral procession or
otherwise interfere with the progress of the procession, except when:
      (1)   The person is authorized to do so by a police or safety officer; or
      (2)   The vehicle is an emergency vehicle as defined by KRS 189.910.
   (D)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not a part of a funeral
procession shall not illuminate the vehicle headlights or engage in any other
act for the purpose of securing the right-of-way granted to funeral
processions.
   (E)   The escort vehicle, hearse or other vehicles in a procession may be
equipped with flashing amber lights for the purpose of notifying the general
public of the procession and gaining the right-of-way at intersections, or
signaling the end of a procession.
   (F)   Persons authorized to use flashing lights as defined in KRS 189.920
may use them while accompanying a funeral procession to warn traffic that a
procession is approaching or that it is in progress.
   (G)   When a funeral procession is in progress, a person driving a vehicle
not in the procession shall not pass or overtake any vehicle in the procession
unless:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a police or safety officer;
      (2)   The procession is on a street, road or highway outside the
corporate limits of a city, town or urban-county; or
      (3)   The procession is on an interstate highway or a state parkway.
(KRS 189.378)
PARADES
§ 71.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park or
other public place in the city, or CRUISING as defined herein.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire as defined in KRS 189.700.
(Ord. 520, passed - -1967)
§ 71.061 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities; or
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Ord. 520, passed - -1967) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.062 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   Information. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade Chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
       (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
       (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
       (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
(Ord. 520, passed - -1967) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.063 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment enroute to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit; or
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
(Ord. 520, passed - -1967) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.064 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
(Ord. 520, passed - -1967)
§ 71.065 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
(Ord. 520, passed - -1967)
§ 71.066 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this subchapter.
(Ord. 520, passed - -1967)
§ 71.067 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
(Ord. 520, passed - -1967)
§ 71.068 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 520, passed - -1967) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.069 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
(Ord. 520, passed - -1967) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.070 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
(Ord. 520, passed - -1967) Penalty, see §
71.999
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.071 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(Ord. 520, passed - -1967)
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.085 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   The speed limit on the street known as New Moody Lane from Forest Park
Drive to a point 0.4 miles southwest of Kentucky Highway 53 is to be at the
rate of 45 mph. The speed limit from 0.4 miles southwest of Kentucky Highway 53
extending north to Kentucky Highway 53 shall be 35 mph.
   (B)   The speed limit on all other city streets within the city boundaries,
excepting state highways and streets in mobile home parks, is to be at the rate
of 25 mph. The speed limit in mobile home parks is to be ten mph.
   (C)   The above speed limits shall be posted on signs visible along said
streets.
   (D)   A violation of this section shall result in a citation being issued
against the offender for appearance in front of the County District Court, and
the violator shall be subject to such fines as set forth in KRS 189.394.
(Ord. 14-80, passed 9-8-1980; Ord. 9-85, passed 11-18-1985; Ord. 9-86, passed
9-15-1986; Ord. 4-89, passed 4-3-1989)
§ 71.086 RAILROAD TRAINS.
   (A)   All trains shall enter the city at the speed of ten mph.
   (B)   After all crossings are blocked within the city from Cedar Street to
Sixth Street, the trains may increase their speed up to 20 mph.
   (C)   At no time shall any train enter the city at a speed in excess of ten
mph.
   (D)   At no time shall the speed of any train exceed ten mph until the
crossings from Cedar Street to Sixth Street are blocked to vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 1-80, passed 1-7-1980; Ord. 11-80, passed 6-2-1980)
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   All night parking; abandoned and junked vehicles
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking zones designated for persons with disabilities
   
72.13   Limited parking on First Street
   
72.14   Limited parking on Second Street
   
72.15   Fire lane designation; restrictions
Impounding
   
72.30   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.31   Required notice to owner
   
72.32   Sale of vehicle
   
72.33   Vehicle obstructing sidewalk to be impounded
Snow Emergency
   
72.45   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.46   Termination of emergency
   
72.47   Snow emergency routes
Parking in Business District
   
72.60   Definition of business district
   
72.61   Parking regulations
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS 65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any commercial or
industrial vehicle or any other thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction or
hindrance in or on any public way within the city either during the day or
night, except while the vehicle is being loaded or unloaded and such loading or
unloading operation is actually taking place or while the cab of the vehicle is
occupied by the driver thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   All person shall park the vehicles which they drive or are in control
of on their own property or in their own driveways or on pull off areas on the
right-of-way. Visitors of residents shall park their vehicle in the driveways
of their host(s) or on pull off areas on the right-of-way, unless if no such
space is available. If no such space is available, visitors of residents may
park their vehicles on the street so long as its two right wheels are off the
pavement or are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, and the
vehicle is facing the flow of traffic. No vehicle may remain parked on the
street for more than 24 hours.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the centerline of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the centerline of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
   (F)   Notwithstanding all other provisions concerning parking in this
chapter, it shall be a violation for the operator of any motor vehicle to park
a motor vehicle in a city right-of-way, if doing so causes or creates drainage
problems such as standing water, erosion, mud, potholes or pavement damage.
(Ord. 9-90, passed 9-4-1990; Ord. 4-2011, passed 4-4-2011; Ord. 2-2017, passed
5-1-2017) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park such
vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the provisions
of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic sign or
signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02;
   (B)   On a sidewalk;
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (E)   Within an intersection or crosswalk;
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. This
does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during the performance of their official duties;
   (G)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign or traffic-control
device;
   (H)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area;
   (I)   On any controlled access highway;
   (J)   Within a highway tunnel;
   (K)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (L)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway; and
(KRS 189.450(5), (6))
   (M)   No 18 wheel tractors and/or trailers shall be parked on any city
street more than two hours.
(Ord. 9-90, passed 9-4-1990) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) of this section giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at
any time on any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) of this section, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or
adjacent to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) of this section, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park
a vehicle between the hours specified by official signs on any day except
Sundays on any street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting the signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the signs
have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the time
of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions which
by their very nature would not require the signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) of this section
in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time
longer than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street
so marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 ALL NIGHT PARKING; ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   All night parking. It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one
place any vehicle on any of the public ways or streets of the city for a period
of 24 hours or longer.
   (B)   Abandoned vehicles. Any vehicle parked in one place upon a public way
for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and shall be
subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to abandoned motor
vehicles.
   (C)   Junked vehicle.
      (1)   JUNKED VEHICLE means any vehicle that is inoperative or reasonably
appears to be inoperative; wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled or
discarded. Conditions which may indicate that a motor vehicle is “junked”
include, but are not limited to, extensively rusted or without all properly
inflated tires, windshields, window glass, major chassis components, brake
lights or without any other vehicle component required by law or with an
expired license plate or registration tag or without a license plate or
registration tag.
      (2)   A junked vehicle located on a public way (or on private property
and within public view) shall be deemed a public nuisance.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to cause or allow a
junked vehicle to be placed, located, maintained or to exist upon the public
way (or on private property and within public view).
      (4)   Any junked or abandoned vehicle located on the public way is
subject to being removed pursuant to §
72.30 and the registered owner being fined pursuant to §
72.99 for each day the vehicle is not removed.
      (5)   Any junked vehicle located on private property and within public
view is subject to a citation being issued pursuant to
Chapter 92.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 7-6-1998) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §§
72.31 through
72.33
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.060 through
71.071
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee or person in charge of the property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.30 through
72.32.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that an unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the
owner’s expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) of this
section.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot or tot lot within the city not
designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a roadway.
However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and regularly
maintained roadway in any park or playground where at least two wheels of the
motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale on any
street, except that a motor vehicle displayed for sale may be parked off the
street upon property where the vehicle owner resides for a total of seven days
and for no more than two vehicles during any 12-month period.
(Ord. 15-2019, passed 1-6-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING ZONES DESIGNATED FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Certain parking zones are hereby established within the city marked
“parking for persons with disabilities” and shall be restricted to parking for
persons with disabilities only.
   (B)   Only vehicles bearing special license plates for persons with
disabilities or proof of disabled status shall be permitted to park in these
specialized zones designated for persons with disabilities.
   (C)   Any vehicle parking in zones designated for persons with disabilities
without a special license plate shall be subject to citation by the city police
and fined in the County District Court as set forth in §
72.99.
(Ord. 4-80, passed 2-4-1980) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 LIMITED PARKING ON FIRST STREET.
   (A)   Parking is hereby prohibited on the east side of First Street (also
known as Highway 53) from Adams Street to Main Street.
   (B)   Parking is prohibited on both sides of First Street (Highway 53) from
Main Street to Interstate 71.
   (C)   Parking is prohibited from Jefferson Street to Main Street from 6:00
a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
(Ord. 11-78, passed 7-5-1978; Ord. 1-85, passed 9-3-1985; Ord. 1-88, passed 3-
7-1988) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 LIMITED PARKING ON SECOND STREET.
   Parking is prohibited on Second Street between Main Street and Yager Avenue.
(Ord. 4-88, passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 FIRE LANE DESIGNATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   In an area designated as a fire lane either by posted sign or appropriate
markings on pavement, it shall be unlawful for a motor vehicle to be left
unattended without a licensed driver in the vehicle for any period of time or
for a motor vehicle with a licensed driver in attendance to be left standing or
parked for a period of five minutes or longer.
(Ord. 20-97, passed 12-1-1997) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.30 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator’s arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
§ 72.31 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority or private person or
business for any reason; when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated,
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority, or by private person or business; or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority, or by private person or business, the police, other authority
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the State
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 and within
ten business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify
the registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license
number and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of the
vehicle, and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor vehicle.
(KRS 376.275(1))
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) of this section is placed in a
garage or other storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to
provide the notice provided in division (A) of this section by certified mail
to the registered owner at the address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor
of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of
recovery of or taking possession of the motor vehicle. This notice shall
contain the information as to the make, model, license number and vehicle
identification number of the vehicle, the location of the vehicle, and the
amount of reasonable charges for towing, recovery, storage, transporting and
other applicable charges due on the vehicle. When the owner of the facility
fails to provide notice as provided herein, the motor vehicle storage facility
shall forfeit all storage fees accrued after ten business days from the date of
tow. This division (B) shall not apply to a garage or storage facility owned or
operated by the city.
(KRS 376.275(2))
§ 72.32 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles who has substantially complied with the requirements of §
72.31 shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set
forth in KRS 376.275(4), for the reasonable or agreed charges for towing,
recovery, storage, transporting and other applicable charges due on the vehicle
as long as it remains in his or her possession.
      (2)   Prior to payment of fees and release of a vehicle, a towing or
storage company shall not refuse the right of physical inspection of the towed
vehicle by the owner or an insurance company representative. Release of the
vehicle shall occur to the owner or insurance company representative upon
payment and consent of the release from the owner or the owner’s authorized
representative. Each additional service shall be set forth individually as a
single line item in the bill with an explanation and the exact charge for the
service.
      (3)   If, after a period of 45 days, the reasonable or agreed charges for
towing, recovery, storage, transporting and other applicable charges due on a
motor vehicle and its contents have not been paid, the motor vehicle and its
contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275(4), may be sold to pay the charges
after the owner has been notified by certified mail ten days prior to the time
and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle pursuant to
this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges for towing,
transporting and storage, the sale and collection of proceeds shall not
constitute a waiver or release of responsibility for payment of unpaid towing,
transporting, and storage charges by the owner or responsible casualty insurer
of the vehicle. This lien shall be subject to prior recorded liens.
      (4)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth shall be notified by certified mail within the first
15 days of impoundment. The letter shall include the make, model, license
number, vehicle identification number, owner’s name and last known address, and
tentative date of sale for the vehicle. If the above-referenced certified
letter is not sent within the 15 days by the towing and storage company, then
only 15 days of storage may be charged. The lien holder has the right to take
possession of the motor vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and
paying the reasonable or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor
vehicle. Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle subject
to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190.
(KRS 376.275(3))
   (B)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to the following contents
of a motor vehicle, which shall be released to the vehicle owner or the owner’s
designated agent upon request, if the request is made within 45 days of the
date the vehicle was towed:
      (1)   Prescription medication in its proper container;
      (2)   Personal medical supplies and equipment or records;
      (3)   Educational materials, including, but not limited to, calculators,
books, papers and school supplies;
      (4)   Documents, files, electronic devices or equipment which may be able
to store personal information or information relating to a person’s employment
or business;
      (5)   Firearms and ammunition. Notwithstanding the provisions of division
(C) of this section, firearms and ammunition which are not claimed by the owner
of the vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed shall be
transferred to the Department of Kentucky State Police for disposition as
provided by KRS 16.220;
      (6)   Cargo in the possession of persons engaged in transportation in
interstate commerce as registered under KRS 186.020;
      (7)   Cargo in the possession of an integrated intermodal small package
carrier as defined by KRS 281.605(12);
      (8)   Child restraint systems or child booster seats; and
      (9) Checks, checkbooks, debit or credit cards, money orders, stocks or
bonds.
   (C)   Except as provided for in division (B)(5) of this section, any
contents exempted under division (B) of this section that are not claimed by
the owner of the vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed may
be sold or otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing company.
   (D)   The storage or towing company shall not be responsible for contents in
a vehicle’s trunk or other locked compartment to which the storage or towing
company is without access, unless the towing company intentionally opens the
area without the owner’s consent.
(KRS 376.275(3)-(6))
Statutory reference:
   Provisions concerning disposition of contents of motor vehicle, see KRS
376.275(4)
§ 72.33 VEHICLE OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALK TO BE IMPOUNDED.
   All peace officers of this city are authorized and directed to impound any
motor vehicle which is parked on any sidewalk. The city shall follow the
procedures for impoundment as provided in §
72.30. In addition to the penalties in §
72.30, the city shall have a lien upon any motor vehicles impounded to secure
payment of the cost of the impoundment and storage thereof.
(Ord. 10-88C, passed 9-6-1988)
Cross-reference:
   Obstruction on sidewalks, §§
91.040 through
91.043
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.45 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that parking be prohibited, he or she is
authorized to announce the prohibition, to become effective at a time specified
by him or her. After the effective time of the prohibition, no person shall
park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency
route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain occurs after 11:00
p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city
official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency
routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow
emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following the fall. The
prohibition of parking announced by the Chief of Police or other authorized
city official under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until
he or she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in which
the prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in
effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.46 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
If the announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it
shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.47 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
PARKING IN BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 72.60 DEFINITION OF BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   As used in this subchapter, the term “business district” shall include the
following streets: Jefferson Street bounded by Second Street and Cedar Street;
Second Street bounded by Jefferson Street and Washington Street; Washington
Street bounded by Second Street and Cedar Street; Cedar Street bounded by
Jefferson Street and Washington Street; and Main Street bounded by Third Street
and Cedar Street.
(Ord. 2-78, passed 4-3-1978)
§ 72.61 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   There is hereby established a two-hour parking limit within the
business district defined in §
72.60 from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. each day of the week.
   (B)   Any person who causes or permits any vehicle to be parked in the
business district beyond this two-hour parking limit shall be guilty of a
violation and fined as set forth in §
72.99.
(Ord. 2-78, passed 4-3-1978) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.05   Skateboards and other similar devices
   
73.06   Golf carts
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
   (D)   Persons making a left turn are required to extend the left arm out
horizontally. Right turns shall be indicated by extending the left arm out
horizontally and turned upward at the elbow. A stop or slowing of a bicycle
shall be indicated by extending either arm out horizontally and turned down at
the elbow.
(KRS 189.380) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 SKATEBOARDS AND OTHER SIMILAR DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property held by private interests, which is used
primarily for business, commercial, retail, office space, business park,
religious, multi-family or recreational purposes. This shall also include the
sidewalks contained within the private property, parking lots, alleys and
parking facilities for these private property areas.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any property owned or maintained by the city or any
other public entity or public utility within the police power’s jurisdictional
boundaries of the city.
      ROLLER BLADES or ROLLER SKATES. Any footwear, or device, which may be
attached to the foot or footwear, to which wheels are attached, including
wheels that are in line and where such wheels may be used to aid the wearer
moving or propulsion.
      SKATEBOARD. A board of any material, designed for the user/rider to stand
or sit upon, which has wheels attached to it, is propelled or moved by human,
gravitational or mechanical power and may be operated with or without a
separate steering mechanism to control the turning of the wheels a may be
operated with or without a mechanical braking system which will allow the rider
to stop the wheel(s).
   (B)   General prohibition.
      (1)   It is unlawful, and subject to punishment in accordance with KRS
82.700 to 82.725 and §
73.99, for any person to ride upon or utilize any skateboard, roller blades or
any similar device to ride or move about in or on any public property when the
property has been designated and posted as a no skateboard, rollerblading or
similar activity area.
      (2)   Skateboards, roller blades and similar devices shall yield right of
way to pedestrians and automobiles.
      (3)   It is unlawful, and subject to punishment in accordance with KRS
82.700 to 82.725 and §
73.99, for any person to ride upon or utilize any skateboard, roller blades or
any similar device to ride or move about in or on any private property within a
business in the city without the direct or implied consent of the owner if
there is displayed in plain view on the properly a sign prohibiting such
conduct and referring to this section.
      (4)   No person shall use a skateboard, roller blades or any similar
device outside of a designated no skateboard, roller blading or similar
activity area in a manner, which creates a nuisance. For the purpose of this
section, NUISANCE is defined as any activity which:
         (a)   Threatens injury to any person or property, public or private;
         (b)   Creates an obstruction or presents a hazard to the free and
unrestricted use of public or private property by pedestrians or motorists; or
         (c)   Generates loud or unreasonable noise.
   (C)   Designation of public property as no skateboarding, rollerblading or
similar activity area. The Mayor and/or City Council may, upon review and
recommendation of the Director of Public Works or Chief of Police, designate
any public roadway, sidewalk or other public property as a no skateboarding,
rollerblading or similar activity area. The Mayor and/or City Council shall
designate such areas and times when such activity is prohibited and order the
posting of appropriate signage in accordance with division (D).
   (D)   Posting of required signs.
      (1)   Prior to the enforcement of the prohibition on skateboarding,
rollerblading or similar activities, the area so designated shall be posted
with signs, which provide substantially as follows. Skateboarding,
rollerblading or similar activity, is prohibited by this city. Any violation is
punishable by a fine of $50 for the first offense.
      (2)   Such prohibition shall apply to the property or area so designated
once the property or area has been posted with signs, with lettering not less
than one inch in height, in plain view of all entrances to the property or
area. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to post and maintain
all signs prohibiting skateboarding, rollerblading or similar activities.
   (E)   Exemption from the provisions of this section. Any device designated,
intended and used solely for the transportation of infants, the handicapped or
incapacitated persons, devices designed, intended and used for the
transportation of merchandise to and from the place of purchase and other
wheeled devices, when being used for either of these purposes shall be exempt
from this chapter. Furthermore, the Mayor may, by resolution, suspend the
enforcement provisions of this chapter to accommodate special events when so
requested by the event organizer.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 3-2-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      GOLF CART. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for the transportation of
players or maintaining equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing
of golf, supervising the play of golf or maintaining the condition of the
grounds on a golf course, and as further defined in KRS 189.286.
   (B)   Authorized public roads. The streets under the jurisdiction of the
city that may be used for the operation of golf carts is set out in Schedule A,
attached to Ord. 13-2019 and incorporated herein by reference, which shall be
kept on file with the City Clerk and posted on the city website, as it is
amended from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Operation of golf carts.
      (1)   Any golf cart operating on streets under the jurisdiction of the
city shall be inspected by a certified inspector designated by the County
Sheriff and certified through the Department of Vehicle Regulation to ensure
that it complies with the requirements of this chapter and KRS 189.286. The
proof of inspection document issued by the County Sheriff shall constitute
proof required by the police to issue a permit. The proof of inspection issued
by the County Sheriff and city permit shall be kept in the golf cart at all
times of operation on a public roadway. This permit shall be valid as long as
the original permittee owns the golf cart.
      (2)   Any permitted golf cart shall be insured in compliance with KRS
304.39-080 by the owner or operator. The proof of insurance shall be maintained
inside the golf cart at all times of operation on a public roadway.
      (3)   The operator of the golf cart shall not cross any state or county
road at an intersection, or where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed
limit of more than 35 mph, except at designated traffic-controlled
intersections authorized in Schedule A (attached to Ord. 13-2019).
      (4)   The operator shall have a valid operator’s license in his or her
possession.
      (5)   The golf cart shall only be operated on public streets between
sunrise and sunset.
      (6)   The permitted golf cart shall display a slow-moving vehicle emblem
in compliance with KRS 189.820.
      (7)   Any person operating a golf cart on a public roadway shall be
subject to the traffic regulations of KRS Chapter 189.
      (8)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a golf cart that
is not used on a public roadway, except to cross a roadway while following a
golf cart path on a golf course.
   (D)   Exemptions from certain regulations. A golf cart permitted by this
chapter is not considered to be a motor vehicle and is exempt from the title
requirements of KRS 186.020, the vehicle registration requirements of KRS
186.050 and the emissions compliance certificates pursuant to KRS 224.20-720.
(Ord. 13-2019, passed 11-4-2019)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   ALARM REGISTRY
      
96.   FAIR HOUSING PRACTICES
      
97.   TREE PRESERVATION
      
98.   PARKS
      
99.   EXPLOSIVES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals to be restrained
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Impoundment
   
90.08   Reclaiming impounded animal
   
90.09   Prohibiting keeping of farm animals and exotic species within city
limits
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and claims by the
owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
   DOMESTIC. Domesticated dogs and cats, birds kept in cages or totally within
the confines of a residence; guinea pigs, hamsters, gerbils or similar type
animals kept in cages in a residence.
   EXOTIC SPECIES. Any animal born or whose natural habitat is outside the
continental United States or any animal not normally classified as a family
pet, including, but not limited to, lions, tigers, leopards, wolves, bears,
badgers, wolverines or any other animal not ordinarily domesticated by humans
and because of its nature or physical makeup is capable of inflicting serious
physical harm or death to human beings.
   FARM ANIMALS. Horses, mules, donkeys, burros or similar equine species;
cattle; goats; swine; sheep; chickens, turkeys or similar type fowl, or any
other type animal normally associated with a farming operation.
   HARBOR. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or sheltered
for three consecutive days or more.
   OWNER. Every person, partnership or corporation having a right of property
to an animal and every person who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or
her care, or permits it to remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by
him or her.
   RESTRAINT. Any animal shall be deemed to be under restraint if it is then
and there under control of a responsible person and is obedient to that
person’s commands, or is within the real property limits of the owner.
(Ord. 8-80, passed 5-5-1980; Ord. 8-98, passed 8-3-1998)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS TO BE RESTRAINED.
   (A)   All animals shall be kept under restraint by their owners at all
times. No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his or her
animal so as to prevent the following action by them:
      (1)   Molesting of passersby;
      (2)   Chasing of passing vehicles;
      (3)   Attacking other domestic animals;
      (4)   Trespassing upon private property or school grounds;
      (5)   Damaging private or public property;
      (6)   Habitual barking or loud and continued noise which causes serious
annoyance or disturbance to the neighborhood; and
      (7)   Unnecessarily foul or obnoxious odors which offend the people in
the neighborhood.
   (B) Working animals, including hunting dogs and other animals which are
actively engaged in activities for which they are trained and when accompanied
by their owner or handler, shall be considered to be restrained under the
meaning of this section.
   (C) The owner of an animal who fails to keep it under restraint in violation
of this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the
premises of another.
(Ord. 8-80, passed 5-5-1980) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including, but not limited to,
being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal is caused to
fight for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other
than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space
or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division (A)(3) shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including, but not
limited to, horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (C)   (1)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense under
division (A) of this section arising from the person’s treatment of an equine,
the court may impose one or both of the following penalties against the person,
in addition to fines and imprisonment:
         (a)   An order that the person pay restitution for damage to the
property of others and for costs incurred by others, including reasonable
costs, as determined by agreement or by the court after a hearing, incurred in
feeding, sheltering, veterinary treatment and incidental care of any equine
that was the subject of the offense resulting in conviction; or
         (b)   An order terminating or imposing conditions on the person’s
right to possession, title, custody or care of any equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
      (2)   If a person’s ownership interest in an equine is terminated by a
judicial order under division (C)(1)(b) of this section, the court may order
the sale, conveyance or other disposition of the equine that was the subject of
the offense resulting in conviction.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks and baby chicks and mature chickens (“Gallus
gallus domesticus”) may be sold in any amount as long as the chick or chicken
is at least one day old, or more.
(KRS 436.600) (Ord. 14-2014, passed 10-6-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer or any person authorized by
the city may destroy or kill, or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian or of two reputable citizens called by him or her
to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or his
or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his or her
agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may
be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of
as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
   (D)   Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100)
§ 90.07 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Every police officer, peace officer or other authorized official shall
have the authority to apprehend any dog or other animal running at large in
violation of this chapter and to impound such dog or other animal or have such
dog or other animal impounded in the appropriate place.
   (B)   It shall be lawful for any person to seize any dog or other animal
running at large in violation of this chapter and to turn such dog or animal
over to the County Dog Warden, his or her deputies, or assistants.
   (C)   No person shall invade the premises of another to capture or take any
animal off the premises of the owner, or seize any animal while the same is
accompanied by its owner, except as authorized by state law.
(Ord. 8-80, passed 5-5-1980) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
§ 90.09 PROHIBITING KEEPING OF FARM ANIMALS AND EXOTIC SPECIES WITHIN CITY
LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, company, firm or business to keep
maintain or have any live farm animals or exotic species within the boundaries
of the city; however, Gallus gallus domesticus (herein referred to as "chicks"
or "chickens") may be kept as long as there are no more than six chicks or
chickens per household and as long as the chicks or chickens are kept in a
humane manner and under sanitary conditions so as not to constitute a nuisance
in violation of any other city ordinance or state law or county law. No male
chicks or chickens (hereinafter referred to as "roosters") may be kept in any
household.
   (B)   Any person who, as of June 15, 1987, already has such farm animals or
exotic species may keep them until such time as they shall cease having such
animals or fowl; however, notwithstanding this, chicks or chickens are allowed
to be kept as long as no more than six chicks or chickens are kept in any one
household and no roosters are kept in any household. No additional farm animals
(except chicks or chickens) or exotic species may be acquired by such person.
If at any time any person no longer has such farm animals (except chicks or
chickens) or exotic species, they shall be prohibited from re-establishing and
keeping such animals on their property in the future. Chicks and chickens may
only be kept on property that is zoned for single-family residential or
agricultural use and includes a single-family dwelling, and may not be kept on
property where there are apartments or commercial or industrial uses. No
roosters may be kept on single-family, multi-family, commercial or industrial
property.
   (C)   Any person keeping such animals under the "grandfather" provision set
forth in division (B) of this section, must keep said animals confined in cages
or pens and under such sanitary conditions so as not to constitute a nuisance
in violation of other city ordinance of state and county law.
   (D)   Any person found in violation of any provisions of this section shall
be cited by the code enforcement officer and given ten days to remove the
offending animals or fowl from their property. Failure to remove the offending
animals or fowl within the ten-day period will result in a citation be issued
to the offending individual and said person shall be subject to the fines set
forth in §
90.99.
   (E)   Any person who is keeping chickens on his or her property, or rented
property, shall complete a permit application prior to keeping the chickens on
the property. If the person keeping chickens is a tenant, then the tenant shall
also complete and sign a permit application prior to keeping chickens on the
property and the landowner shall also provide contact information on the permit
and the landowner shall sign the same. The applicant shall provide contact
information, information on the zoning of the property, information about the
coop and a sketch of the proposed area for the coop and/or run with dimensions
of property lines and adjacent structures. Property fencing and/or runs must be
a minimum of four feet tall. All coops and runs must be located in the rear
yard behind the residence and comply with all rear and side setback zoning
regulations on the property. The permit fee is to be paid at the time that the
application is submitted for consideration. The Code Enforcement Officer, in
his or her sound discretion, shall determine the number of chickens that may be
kept, based on the area proposed in the application. There shall be a minimum
of eight square feet of fenced space outside the coop per chicken, and a
minimum of two square feet of inside coop space per chicken.
(Ord. 4-87, passed 6-15-1987; Ord. 8-98, passed 8-3-1998; Ord. 14-2014, passed
10-6-2014; Ord. 2-2023, passed 4-3-2023)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.001   Opening permit required
   
91.002   Application and cash deposit
   
91.003   Restoration and repair of pavement
   
91.004   Barriers around excavations
   
91.005   Warning lights
   
91.006   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.020   Public meeting required
   
91.021   Public meeting; opportunity to speak
   
91.022   Effect of comments
   
91.023   Meeting to be held prior to construction
   
91.024   Separate meeting for each project not required
   
91.025   Exemptions from meeting requirement
Obstructions
   
91.040   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.041   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.042   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.043   Removal of ice and snow
Shade Trees
   
91.055   Planting, trimming of shade trees
   
91.056   Destruction of shade trees prohibited
Street Numbers
   
91.070   Residences, places of business to be numbered
Culverts
   
91.085   Culverts required
   
91.086   Permit required; inspection of site
   
91.087   Variances
   
91.088   Enforcement procedures
Entrances on City Streets
   
91.100   Encroachment permit
Sidewalk Maintenance
   
91.115   Standards of sidewalk maintenance
 
   
91.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Vehicle obstructing sidewalk, see §
72.33
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.001 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.002 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the City Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.003 RESTORATION AND REPAIR OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration and/or repair of a pavement or other
surface shall be performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of an
authorized city official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and
specifications approved by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permitee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the time
specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a reasonable
time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without notice to
make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.002 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permitee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permitee. If the Clerk or other proper administrative official is unable to
collect the remainder due within 60 days after the work is performed, the
amount due shall be turned over to the City Attorney for collection. Any
remainder due after being turned over to the City Attorney for collection shall
become a lien on the permitee’s property and the costs and fees associated with
preparing the lien and filing the same shall be imposed upon the permitee as an
additional amount due to the city.
   (C)   If any action is taken by the City Attorney prior to or after a civil
action is filed to collect any remainder due, and/or costs and fees associated
with preparing or filing of a lien, then attorney fees or legal costs incurred
by the city shall be recovered from the violator and awarded to the city by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 8-2015, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 91.004 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.005 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.006 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   An authorized city official may supervise construction or repair of
sidewalks within the city. He or she may cause specifications to be prepared
for the construction of the various kinds of pavements and transmit the
specifications to the legislative body for approval. When the specifications
are approved, the legislative body shall advertise for proposals to do all the
work which may be ordered by the city in construction and repair of sidewalks,
and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor, for a period not exceeding
one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall furnish good and
sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the work. The Mayor, if
authorized by City Council, may make separate contracts for the different kinds
of work with different parties.
   (B)   The construction and reconstruction of the sidewalks and curbings may
be made at the exclusive cost of the owner of the lots, parts of lots or land
fronting, abutting or bordering upon the area to be improved, if the City
Council determines that it is desirable. The costs of construction or
reconstruction shall be assessed upon the lots, parts of lots or land fronting,
abutting or bordering upon the area to be improved in proportion to the
frontage owned along the area to be improved and in accordance with the
procedures set forth in §§
33.20 through
33.28 of this code.
(Ord. 86, passed 4-10-1908; Ord. 13-2015, passed 11-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.020 PUBLIC MEETING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street or bridge it shall provide an opportunity to the public to provide
input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS 61.823(2)
to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax monies for
road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.021 PUBLIC MEETING; OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.022 EFFECT OF COMMENTS.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 91.023 MEETING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided in this
subchapter has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.024 SEPARATE MEETING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.025 EXEMPTIONS FROM MEETING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters, nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.040 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.041 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
way within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting
any fence or building to remain thereon.
   (B)   Each day that any fence or building is permitted to remain upon the
public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.042 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk.
   (B)   No owner, occupant or person having the care of any building or lot of
land, bordering on any street or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered
with barrels, boxes, cans, articles or substances of any kind, so as to
interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.999
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
§ 91.043 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.999
SHADE TREES
§ 91.055 PLANTING, TRIMMING OF SHADE TREES.
   (A)   No person shall plant any tree or shrubbery on any public right-of-way
which interferes with the free and unobstructed use, construction or
maintenance of the streets and sidewalks or which constitutes an obstruction to
drainage.
   (B)   The owners and occupants of property or lots abutting on public
rights-of-way shall be responsible for trimming and otherwise maintaining or
removing the trees and shrubbery located thereon to prevent any interference
with the use, construction or maintenance of the streets and sidewalks or any
obstruction to drainage.
(Ord. 83, passed 2-4-1908) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.056 DESTRUCTION OF SHADE TREES PROHIBITED.
   Except as set forth in §
91.055(B), it shall be unlawful for any person to cut, cut down or otherwise
deface, injure or destroy any tree or shrubbery located on any public right-of-
way within the city.
(Ord. 22, passed 12-23-1896) Penalty, see §
91.999
STREET NUMBERS
§ 91.070 RESIDENCES, PLACES OF BUSINESS TO BE NUMBERED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SUITABLE. Numbers shall be considered SUITABLE when at least three inches
in height, displayed in more than one foot above or beside the door used as the
entrance to the business, and in a contrasting or reflective material that can
be readily seen from the street or parking lot that faces the building.
   (B)   On or before January 1, 1989, every residence and place of business,
including educational buildings and places of assembly, shall display in a
conspicuous place a suitable identification number. For those residences and
places of business which do not know their number, a suitable number can be
obtained from the county planning and zoning office. Responsibility for placing
this number upon the business or residence shall fall upon the property owner.
(Ord. 5-79, passed 4-2-1979; Ord. 13-88C, passed 11-7-1988) Penalty, see §
91.999
CULVERTS
§ 91.085 CULVERTS REQUIRED.
   Before any new driveway or other access is cut into a city street, there
shall be installed a culvert or other method for drainage, unless the Director
of Public Works determines, in accordance with the provisions of §
91.087, that no culvert or other method of drainage is necessary. If a culvert
for drainage is required, it shall be a minimum of 15 inches in diameter and 20
feet long.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 5-5-1986) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.086 PERMIT REQUIRED; INSPECTION OF SITE.
   As soon as a building permit is issued by the County Planning and Zoning
Commission, the property owner shall contact the Director of Public Works at
the City Hall to secure a permit for entering on a city street. The Director of
Public Works shall inspect the proposed property and determine the size and
length of the culvert which must be installed before the driveway or other
access is allowed to enter on the city street. The Director of Public Works may
require a culvert in excess of the minimums stated in §
91.085 if necessary on the particular property. The permit issued by the
Director of Public Works shall indicate the size and length of the culvert
required for the particular property.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 5-5-1986) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.087 VARIANCES.
   (A)   If the property owner believes that better drainage would be provided
by another method other than a culvert, the property owner or authorized agent
may petition the Director of Public Works for a variance of this subchapter’s
culvert requirement.
   (B)   If the Director of Public Works, after inspecting the property and
reviewing the method proposed by the property owner, concurs that the alternate
method is equal to or better than the culvert method, then the Director of
Public Works may grant a variance to the owner and inscribe on the permit the
alternate method of drainage which will be allowed on the particular property.
If the Director of Public Works determines that no culvert or other drainage
method is necessary, he or she shall so indicate on the permit issued by the
city to access city streets.
   (C)   If the Director of Public Works does not grant the variance, he or she
shall state his or her grounds on the permit for the disapproval and what size
of culvert will be required. The property owner may appeal the decision of the
Director of Public Works by petitioning the Board of Adjustments and Appeals in
writing for a hearing stating the grounds for the appeal. The Board of
Adjustments and Appeals will then set a public hearing for the appeal within 30
days of the written appeal. If no appeal is taken within 30 days, the order
shall be final and unappealable.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 5-5-1986)
§ 91.088 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   If the property owner or his or her authorized agent fails to obtain the
inspection by the Director of Public Works or fails to install the culvert
designated on the permit after the inspection, the city may, at its discretion,
install the culvert at the owner’s expense and place a lien on the property for
the cost of the installation, or may petition the Code Enforcement Board to
require the installation of the culvert in conformity with this subchapter and
impose a fine.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 5-5-1986)
ENTRANCES ON CITY STREETS
§ 91.100 ENCROACHMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   Before any encroachment is allowed upon city streets or alleys, a
permit must be granted by the Public Works Director. A fee of $100 must be paid
at the time of the application. Failure to obtain the encroachment permit may
result in appropriate proceedings in the Oldham District Court or Code
Enforcement Board including a “stop work order” being issued and/or issuance of
a violation citation with penalties of $50 each day the encroachment is
maintained without a permit constituting a separate offense.
   (B)   Before a building permit is issued by the County Planning and Zoning
Commission, the property owner will be responsible to contact the Director of
Public Works at City Hall to apply for and obtain an encroachment permit for
entering on a city street. At this time the Director will inspect the property
and the location of the proposed driveway or other access to determine whether
the location is appropriate. This inspection will be in conjunction with the
inspection required by §
91.086 for culvert installation. The Director is given the discretion to
approve or disapprove the location of the proposed encroachment. The permit
issued by the city after approval by the Director will contain the following
conditions.
      (1)   The permit holder agrees to complete the construction of the
entrance as directed prior to any other work being initiated on the permitted
property.
      (2)   The permit holder agrees to maintain the entrance to include any
required pipe in its approved condition during the permitted construction.
      (3)   The permit holder will limit ingress or egress to the approved
entrance during the permitted construction.
      (4)   The permit holder agrees to accept responsibility for any foreign
material deposited upon the city streets as a result of construction on
permitted property and shall immediately remove said material.
      (5)   The permit holder agrees to promptly repair any damage done to the
city’s right-of-way resulting from his or her actions or those of his or her
agents to include roadway, ditches, shoulders and the like, during the
permitted construction.
      (6)   At any time during the construction on said property, failure to
comply with the terms of the permit shall result in a stop work order to
include any construction on said property.
   (C)   If the property owner disagrees with the decision of the Public Works
Director concerning the location of the proposed access, he or she may appeal
that decision to the Board of Adjustments and Appeals.
   (D)   If the property owner or his or her authorized agent fails to obtain
the encroachment permit, the Planning and Zoning Administrator shall not issue
a building permit for the subject property.
   (E)   The city will be charging $100 for an encroachment permit for
residential, commercial and industrial uses. Applicants for residential uses
will be required to submit a plat, but it does not have to be certified by an
engineer. Applicants for commercial and industrial uses will be required to
submit a plat prepared, signed and certified by an engineer, registered to do
business in the state.
(Ord. 3-94, passed 3-7-1994; Ord. 2-2001, passed - -; Ord. 28-2006, passed 1-2-
2006; Ord. 16-2007, passed 4-9-2007; Ord. 4-2016, passed 4-4-2016)
SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE
§ 91.115 STANDARDS OF SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Responsibility. Unless otherwise specified herein, all owners,
occupants and persons having the care and custody of buildings and lots in the
city shall be responsible for performing the duties set out herein and shall be
separately and equally punishable by fine or other penalty for all violations
of this section, provided that failure of civil authorities to charge any one
of these responsible persons for violation of this section shall not preclude
enforcement hereof against another such responsible person. Third parties
causing damage to sidewalks shall likewise be responsible for repair and shall
be punishable for failure to repair to the same extent as are owners, occupants
and custodians.
   (B)   Enforcement. The Director of Public Works shall be responsible for
making all inspections and issuing all notices required hereby.
   (C)   Removal of litter. It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant or any
person having the care of any real estate abutting on any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk free of dirt, litter and trash at all times. Any such person who
permits such conditions to continue after reasonable notice to clean the
sidewalk from the Director of Public Works shall be deemed in violation of this
section.
   (D)   Damage to sidewalk. It shall be unlawful for any person to dig, break,
displace or damage in any manner any sidewalk or curb, except in making
improvements to adjoining lots. Whoever shall so dig, break, displace or damage
any sidewalk or curb while making adjoining improvements shall restore the
sidewalk or curb to its proper condition within 48 hours after completion of
such work or damage unless such time should be extended by the Director of
Public Works. All repairs shall be in conformity with the requirements of the
Director of Public Works. Persons causing sidewalk damage unrelated to
adjoining improvements shall be jointly responsible with property owners,
occupants and custodians for repair.
   (E)   Specifications of sidewalk construction. It shall be the duty of the
Director of Public Works or other authorized person to supervise construction
or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause specifications to
be prepared for the construction of the various types of pavement and shall
transmit specifications to the legislative body for approval. Any homeowner or
property owner installing new or repairing existing sidewalks pursuant to the
provisions of this section shall obstruct the sidewalks to conform to the
specifications prepared by the Director of Public Works.
   (F)   Notice and time for sidewalk repair.
      (1)   Whenever the Director of Public Works discovers in the city the
existence of holes, cracks or other sidewalk defects causing depressions or
uneven surfaces of more than three-fourths-inch, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner of the abutting property in writing to repair the sidewalk at
his or her own expense within a period of 30 days after delivery of such notice
or be subject to fine. Such notice directed to the owner of the abutting
property shall describe the property location and shall identify the area (in
square feet) of the sidewalk to be repaired by reference to pavement markings
or in such other manner as to make the defective pavement ascertainable. If
such owner is a nonresident of the city, or cannot be found, the notice will be
delivered to his or her agent having charge of the property, and if there is no
such agent, it may be delivered to the occupant of the property.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of each owner of property in the city within
30 days after receipt of the above-required notice to repair, at his or her own
expense, all holes, uneven surfaces, cracks, breaks, deterioration, and other
defects in the sidewalk upon which the property abuts, as specified in the
notice and in accordance with the provisions of this section; provided,
however, that concrete sidewalks shall not be poured with the temperature is
below 40°F though the 30 days may have expired, but shall be poured as soon as
possible after that temperature has been reached.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to waive or affect the
right of the city to order the reconstruction of any sidewalk at any time upon
less than 30 days’ notice when determined by the Director of Public Works that
an especially hazardous condition exists.
      (4)   Any owner or any agent of the owner or occupant of such property
who shall fail to repair defective sidewalks as required in this section shall
be personally liable in the civil action for any personal injury or property
damage resulting therefrom.
   (G)   Maintenance by city. Notwithstanding any provision herein to the
contrary, the city may, at its election, and without notice other than provided
above, effect the cleaning or sidewalk repairs required herein and charge the
responsible person for the actual cost of labor or materials, or for the
contract price.
(Ord. 10-88C, passed 9-6-1988; Ord. 13-2015, passed 11-2-2015) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Unlawful conduct
   
92.07   Standards for noise pollution; exemptions
   
92.08   Release of lighter-than-air objects
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   BONA FIDE FARMING OPERATION. The operation and maintenance of a farm,
situated on five contiguous acres or more of land used for the production of
livestock, poultry, poultry products, dairy, dairy products or horticulture
products or for the growing of crops such as, but not limited to, tobacco,
corn, soybeans and wheat.
   CONSTRUCTION or DEMOLITION ACTIVITY. The erection (including excavation),
demolition, alteration or repair of any building, structure or roadway, for
which all necessary and proper governmental permits have been obtained.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   INTENSITY. The magnitude and strength of noise.
   INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE. The provisions of §
155.15 shall supplement the definition and remedies for nuisances set out in
this chapter.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NOISE. The intensity, frequency, duration and character of sound or sounds
from a source or sources.
   NUISANCE. Any condition or the use of premises or of building exteriors
which is detrimental to the property of others or which causes or tends to
cause substantial diminution in the value of other properties or which renders
such properties as dangerous or detrimental or adverse to the health or welfare
or is offensive to the senses of the residents in the city.
   PARKING LOTS. Any off-street parking facility for public use, and the
approaches to same, whether publicly or privately-owned, and shall include, but
not be limited to, parks, shopping centers, restaurants, entertainment centers,
taverns, car washes, banking or financial institutions, whether publicly or
privately-owned, operated or controlled.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, association, partnership, joint venture,
corporation or any private entity of any nature.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Capable of being distinctly heard by a person with normal
hearing.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any road, street, avenue, alley, boulevard, highway, lane or
court, including the berm, shoulder or any public property adjacent thereto,
bridge, viaduct, trestle and the approaches to them, or sidewalk.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
   UNREASONABLE PERIOD OF TIME. A period of time in excess of that necessary to
accomplish:
      (1)   A danger warning with a horn or other audible signaling device; or
      (2)   The preservation or protection of property or the life, safety or
welfare of a person or persons by use of an audible signaling device.
   UNREASONABLY LOUD, HARSH OR EXCESSIVE NOISE. Any manufactured noise plainly
audible at a distance of 50 feet from its point of origination or emanation.
   VEHICLE. Any machine or device in, on, or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn on any right-of-way or parking lot.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 2-6-2006; Ord. 12-2006, passed 9-5-2006)
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter and in §
155.15 or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon. The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb or property of, or cause hurt, damage or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof;
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish/debris and abandoned, discarded or unused
objects or equipment. Including, but not limited to, an accumulation on any
premises of filth, refuse, trash, garbage or other waste material and/or
abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as furniture, stoves,
refrigerators, toys, freezers, washers, dryers, cans, containers which endanger
the public health, welfare or safety, or is materially detrimental to the
property of others or which causes or tends to cause a nuisance because of the
danger that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin,
rodents or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk or property of
another or cause substantial diminution in the value of other properties.
Garbage containers deposited on the street 24 hours prior to scheduled pickup
and garbage containers left on the street 24 after scheduled pickup;
   (C)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which creates
a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity;
   (D)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass or other
vegetation. Excessive growth shall be deemed the growth of weeds, grass or
other vegetation to a height in excess of one foot;
   (E)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place;
   (F)   Trees and shrubbery, athletic goals and equipment, skateboard ramps,
vehicles obstructing streets, sidewalks and drainage. The growing and
maintenance of trees or shrubbery, the use or storage of athletic goals,
equipment, skateboard ramps or vehicles which in any way interferes with the
use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes injury to
streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage;
   (G)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors; and
   (H)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in an
inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile parts,
or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by the city
for such purposes.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 2-6-2006; Ord. 7-2009, passed 1-4-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When one of the conditions specified in §§
92.03 or
155.15 is discovered, the Code Enforcement Officer discovering such conditions
shall give ten days written notice to the owner of the property to remedy the
situation. This notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner
of the property as it appears on the current tax assessment roll or affixed to
the door of the property.
   (B)   Upon failure of the owner of the property to comply, the Police Chief
may authorize city employees to go upon the property to remove the rubbish,
excessive growth of weeds or grass or other condition constituting a nuisance.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the situation. The Code
Enforcement Officer shall submit an affidavit to the County Clerk evidencing
the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings to clear the
property. The affidavit shall be filed in the County Clerk’s office where it
shall constitute notice to all persons of the lien of the city.
   (D)   The lien shall bear interest at 6% per annum.
   (E)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges for the removal of
rubbish, excessive weeds and grass, or the correction of any condition
constituting a nuisance shall be sold for nonpayment for the same and the
proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay the charges after deducting the
costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens. The foreclosure
shall be in equity in the name of the city and shall join all persons having an
interest in the property as shown in the record of the County Court Clerk’s
office. The foreclosure action may be maintained against any property for which
such a bill or lien has remained unpaid for 60 days after it has been rendered.
   (F)   In the alternative to the above procedure, the city, at its
discretion, may issue a citation to the offending property owner to appear in
the City Code Enforcement Board or County District Court to answer to a
misdemeanor offense.
(Ord. 4-86, passed 6-2-1986)
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
§ 92.06 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to make, continue
or cause to be made or continued, any unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive
noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace or safety of others, unless the making and continuing of the
noise is necessary for the protection or preservation of property or the life,
health or safety of a person or persons.
   (B)   The following acts are hereby declared to be unreasonably loud, harsh
or excessive noises in violation of this chapter, but the enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or other such audible signaling device on
any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any right-of-way, parking lot or
other public place, except as a danger warning, for an unreasonable period of
time;
      (2)   The use or operation of any radio, stereo or other machine or
device for the producing, reproducing or amplification of sound in any vehicle
in such a manner as to create and unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise,
that disturbs the peace, quiet or comfort of others;
      (3)   The use or operation of, or allowing the use or operation of, any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device
for the producing or reproducing of sound in such a manner as to create an
unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise, which disturbs the peace, quiet
and comfort of others by creating or allowing a louder volume than is necessary
for the convenient hearing of the person or persons who are voluntarily in the
room, chamber or vehicle in which any above described machine, device or
musical instruments is located;
      (4)   The use or operation of any vehicle in such a manner as to produce
any unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise, or to discharge into the open
air the exhaust of any vehicle except through a muffler or other device which
will effectively prevent any unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noises
therefrom;
      (5)   Creation of any unreasonably loud, harsh, or excessive noise in
connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle, or by the operation of
any such vehicle; and
      (6)   The use of any mechanical loud speaker, amplifier, sound system,
stereo or radio on any moving or standing vehicle for advertising,
entertainment or any other purpose, in such a manner as to create an
unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise.
(Ord. 12-2006, passed 9-5-2006) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 STANDARDS FOR NOISE POLLUTION; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Standards. The standards which shall be considered in determining
whether a violation exists shall include but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   The volume of the noise;
      (2)   The intensity of the noise;
      (3)   The volume and intensity of back-ground noise, if any;
      (4)   The proximity of the noise to a residential area, place of public
accommodation such as a hotel, motel, inn, campground and the like, health care
facilities, churches or schools;
      (5)   The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise emanates;
      (6)   The density of inhabitation of the area within which the noise
emanates;
      (7)   The time of day or night the noise occurs;
      (8)   The duration of the noise; and
      (9)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following uses and activities shall be exempt:
      (1)   Noises originating or emanating from safety signals, warning
devices and emergency pressure relief valves;
      (2)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle or law
enforcement training facilities;
      (3)   Noises resulting from construction or demolition activity provided
such activity takes place between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
      (4)   Noises relating to the use of farm machinery, or other machinery
for agricultural purposes in bona fide farming operations;
      (5)   Noises relating to the use of lawn mowers or other machinery for
landscaping purposes between the hours of sunrise and sunset;
      (6)   Noises originating or emanating from public recreational
facilities, such as, but not limited to, fairgrounds, sports arenas, sports
stadiums, amusement parks, racetracks and other public amusement
establishments;
      (7)   The operation of any aircraft in conformity with, or pursuant to,
federal law, federal air regulations and/or air traffic control instructions;
      (8)   Noises resulting from any and all transportation, flood control,
utility company maintenance and construction operations at any time on rights-
of-way and noises from situations which may occur on private real property,
including in parking lots, deemed necessary to serve the best interest of the
public and to protect the public’s health and well being, including, but not
limited to, street or hard surface sweeping or cleaning, debris and limb
removal, removal of downed wires restoring electrical service, repairing
traffic signals, unplugging sewers, snow removal, house moving, vacuuming
catch-basins, removal of damaged poles and vehicles, repair of water hydrants
and mains, gas lines, oil lines, and sewers;
      (9)   Noises from activities conducted on public parks or playgrounds and
public or private school grounds, including, but not limited to, school
athletic and school entertainment events;
      (10)   Noises from activities conducted on property owned or operated by
civic, charitable or religious organizations, including, but not limited to,
neighborhood or church festivals and entertainment events;
      (11)   Noises from activities at parades provided a valid parade permit
has been obtained from the city;
      (12)   Noises from activities at firework displays provided all necessary
permits have been obtained;
      (13)   Noises from activities conducted on rights-of-way of the city
including, but not limited to, festivals and entertainment events, provided all
necessary permits have been obtained; and
      (14)   Noises relating to the collection of refuse between the hours of
6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 12-2006, passed 9-5-2006)
§ 92.08 RELEASE OF LIGHTER-THAN-AIR OBJECTS.
   No person shall knowingly release or launch into the atmosphere above the
city any plastic, mylar or non-biodegradable balloons filled with a gas that is
lighter than air, with the exception of balloons released for scientific or
meteorological purposes. Additionally, no sky lanterns that utilize open flames
to produce heat for lighter-than-air objects shall be released into the
atmosphere above the city.
(Ord. 2-2024, passed 3-4-2024)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
   (E)   Unlawful conduct. Any person violating §
92.06 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $250 for a first offense
within a two-year period. Any person violating any provision §
92.06 a second time within a two-year period shall be fined not less than $250
nor more than $500 and/or imprisoned for a period not exceeding 60 days. Any
person violating any provision of §
92.06 a third time within a two-year period shall be fined not less than $500
and/or imprisoned for a period not exceeding 180 days. Each separate occurrence
or each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense. It shall be a defense for an owner, lessee or
occupant of any premises involved in an offense by some other party, if there
is posted on said property a sign adequately noticeable in size (no larger than
12 square feet), which contains sufficient warnings as to the criminal
liability applicable for noise pollution violations. Said sign shall not
contain any other messages such as advertising for said business.
(Ord. 4-86, passed 6-2-1986; Ord. 12-2006, passed 9-5-2006; Ord. 6-2011, passed
5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Title
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Use and sale of fireworks
   
93.04   Fireworks in city limits
   
93.05   Seasonal and permanent fireworks retailers
   
93.06   Fireworks permit
   
93.07   Ancillary fireworks retailers
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Adoption of Kentucky Fire Prevention Code (Standards of Safety)
   
93.21   Designated enforcement officer
   
93.22   Appeal process
   
93.23   Saving clause
   
93.24   Storage of flammables and other matter
Open Burning
   
93.35   Restrictions on open burning
   
93.36   Controlled burning
   
93.37   Location and containment of open fires
   
93.38   Permit required for burning on construction or demolition sites
   
93.39   Constant attention to open fires required
   
93.40   Authority to prohibit open fires
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Explosives, see
Ch. 99
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Fireworks
Enforcement Code”.
(Ord. 18-2013, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AERIAL OR AUDIBLE CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Those consumer fireworks described in
KRS 227.702(2) and (3) only.
   ANCILLARY FIREWORKS RETAILER. Any person, business entity, association or
corporation of any kind, which is open to the public year round and at least 20
calendar days per month, and which offers for sale, exposes for sale, sells at
retail or wholesale, or keeps with intent to sell only those fireworks as
described in KRS 227.702(1) and which such sales are ancillary to its primary
course of business.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Shall have the same meaning as in KRS 227.702.
   FIREWORKS. Shall have the same meaning as in KRS 227.700 except it shall not
include those described in KRS 227.702(1).
   PERMANENT FIREWORKS RETAILER. Any person, business entity, association or
corporation of any kind which is open to the public year round and at least 20
calendar days per month, and, which offers for sale, exposes for sale, sells at
retail or wholesale, or keeps with intent to sell any consumer fireworks as its
primary course of business.
   SEASONAL FIREWORKS RETAILER. Any person, business entity, association or
corporation of any kind which is not considered a permanent fireworks retailer,
and which offers for sale, exposes for sale, sells at retail or wholesale, or
keeps with intent to sell any consumer fireworks described in KRS 227.702(2)
and/or (3).
(Ord. 18-2013, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 93.03 USE AND SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   The use or sale of fireworks, including consumer fireworks, is prohibited
except as set forth herein. The use or sale of any fireworks other than
consumer fireworks, including display fireworks as defined in KRS 227.706, are
subject to the applicable restrictions of state and federal law and are further
prohibited at all times within the city without written approval of the city’s
Chief of Police.
(Ord. 18-2013, passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 FIREWORKS IN CITY LIMITS.
   Fireworks and consumer fireworks shall not be used, ignited, fired or
exploded in the city limits, except as follows.
   (A)   Fireworks and consumer fireworks must be handled, stored, used,
possessed and sold in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local
law.
   (B)   Fireworks and consumer fireworks may only be used, ignited, fired or
exploded between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., except, that they may
be used, ignited, fired, or exploded between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on
December 31 to midnight on January 1, and also between the hours of 10:00 a.m.
and midnight on the following dates or holidays: July 3, July 4 and Memorial
Day.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, and regardless
of the day of the week on which July 4 falls, persons may use, ignite, fire or
explode fireworks or consumer fireworks on any date specifically named or
designated by the City Council members as the date to celebrate Independence
Day for the city, if other than the actual date of July 4 between the hours of
10:00 a.m. and midnight.
   (D)   No person may use, ignite, fire or explode any fireworks or consumer
fireworks as defined in KRS 227.702(2) and (3) if they are under the age of 18,
or within 200 feet of any structure, motor vehicle (whether operational or non-
operational) or any person other than the person who is using, igniting, firing
or exploding the fireworks or consumer fireworks as defined in KRS 227.702(2),
or where the use of such fireworks places that person in violation of any other
law, regulation or ordinance.
   (E)   These regulations shall not apply to public fireworks displays by the
City of LaGrange properly in conjunction with police and fire departments.
(Ord. 18-2013, passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 SEASONAL AND PERMANENT FIREWORKS RETAILERS.
   Seasonal fireworks retailers and permanent fireworks retailers within the
city shall:
   (A)   Submit an application for a “retail fireworks permit” from the city’s
Code Enforcement Officer, at least 15 days prior to the applicant’s desired
effective date for the retail fireworks permit, on a form approved by the Chief
of Police which shall, in addition to any requirements established by the Chief
of Police or his or her designee, at a minimum require the submission of the
name, phone number and permanent address of the applicant. In the event that
the applicant desires to operate multiple locations, a separate application
does not have to be submitted for each location, however, each location must
have a separate firework sales permit. Additionally, all applications must
include a detailed site plan for the proposed location, the address of the
proposed location and contact information for the owner of the proposed
location if other than the applicant;
   (B)   Provide proof of registration with the State Fire Marshal in
accordance with the applicable provisions of KRS Chapter 227;
   (C)   Obtain a signature on the application from the County Planning
Commission indicating that the proposed location on the application is zoned
appropriately for the conduct of said business;
   (D)   Obtain a business license from the city;
   (E)   Provide a certificate of insurance or other valid proof of general
liability insurance in an amount of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence
which shall remain in effect at all times while engaged in the permitted
activity;
   (F)   (1)   Pay a permit fee according to the following table:
 
Type of Applicant             Permit Fee          Permit Period
                                                  Automatically expires 60
Seasonal fireworks retailer   $1,000 per location calendar days after the
                                                  effective date
                                                  Automatically expires 365
                                                  calendar days after the
                                                  effective date or upon a date
Permanent fireworks retailer  $3,000 per location in which the location no
                                                  longer qualifies as a
                                                  permanent fireworks retailer
                                                  as defined herein
                                                  Automatically expires 365
                                                  calendar days after the
Permanent fireworks retailer                      effective date or upon a date
(renewal)                     $600 per location   in which the location no
                                                  longer qualifies as a
                                                  permanent fireworks retailer
                                                  as defined herein
 
      (2)   In the event that an applicant wishes to operate more than one
geographical location within the city, each location must have a separate
permit and each permit is subject to the applicable permit fee.
   (G)   Comply with all aspects of applicable provisions of KRS Chapter 227,
the International Building Code with Kentucky Amendments (adopted edition),
NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection Association) and the city’s code of
ordinances;
   (H)   Not allow any person under 18 years of age to sell consumer fireworks;
   (I)   Not give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer fireworks to any person
under 18 years of age; and
   (J)   Not offer for sale, expose for sale or sell consumer fireworks except
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 18-2013, passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 FIREWORKS PERMIT.
   A valid retail fireworks permit must be prominently displayed at each
location and at all times during the hours of operation. The Chief of Police or
his or her designee may revoke or suspend any retail fireworks permit of any
site which is in violation of this chapter or KRS Chapter 227 or any other part
of the city’s code of ordinances.
(Ord. 18-2013, passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 ANCILLARY FIREWORKS RETAILERS.
   Ancillary fireworks retailers shall:
   (A)   Comply with all aspects of the applicable provisions of KRS Chapter
227, the International Building Code with Kentucky Amendments (adopted
edition), NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection Association) and the city’s code
of ordinances;
   (B)   Not give, offer for sale or sell any consumer fireworks to any person
under 18 years of age;
   (C)   Not offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail or wholesale or
keep with intent to sell any consumer fireworks other than those described in
KRS 227.702(1);
   (D)   Obtain a business license from the city; and
   (E)   Maintain a certificate of insurance or other valid proof of general
liability insurance in an amount of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence.
(Ord. 18-2013, passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
93.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY FIRE PREVENTION CODE (STANDARDS OF SAFETY).
   The Kentucky Fire Prevention Code (Standards of Safety) as promulgated in
815 KAR 10:060 by the Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction on the advice and recommendation of the State Fire Marshal, is
hereby adopted in full as an ordinance of the city. Copies of the Kentucky Fire
Prevention Code book are available through the LaGrange Fire Department, and
the Kentucky Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction, 1047 U.S. 127
South, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 7-7-1997; Ord. 16-99, passed 1-3-2000)
§ 93.21 DESIGNATED ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The LaGrange Fire Chief shall be designated as the local enforcement officer
for said Standards of Safety.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 7-7-1997)
§ 93.22 APPEAL PROCESS.
   (A)   All final decisions of the fire code official shall be appealable to a
local appeals board which shall be the members of the City Council.
   (B)   Any appeal from any adverse decision by the fire code official shall
be made to the City Council in writing within 30 days of the date of the final
action taken by the fire code official.
   (C)   The City Council will conduct a due process hearing on the appeal of
the aggrieved citizen.
   (D)   The final decision of the City Council shall be appealable to the
Oldham Circuit Court within 30 days of the final decision by the City Council.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 7-7-1997)
§ 93.23 SAVING CLAUSE.
   Nothing in this subchapter or in the Fire Prevention Code hereby adopted
shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any court, or
any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action
acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance; nor shall any just or legal
right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 7-7-1997)
§ 93.24 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior or any material of
a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for these hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.35 RESTRICTIONS ON OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall burn garbage within the city
limits.
   (B)   All burning is prohibited on any city street or pavement within the
city limits.
   (C)   No person, firm or corporation shall burn any trash, refuse or leaves
on city rights-of-way within the city limits.
   (D)   No person, firm or corporation shall be permitted to burn a building
or structure within the city limits for purposes of demolition without first
obtaining a permit as provided in §
93.38.
(Ord. 8-79, passed 4-23-1979; Ord. 16-90, passed 1-7-1990) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36 CONTROLLED BURNING.
   Controlled burning of paper, leaves and similar type materials, excluding
garbage, shall not be allowed in the city without a controlled burn permit from
the Fire Department.
(Ord. 8-79, passed 4-23-1979) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.37 LOCATION AND CONTAINMENT OF OPEN FIRES.
   No person, firm or corporation, or agent thereof may kindle or maintain any
open fire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained unless the
location is not less than 25 feet from any structure and adequate provision is
made to prevent fire from spreading closer than 25 feet to any structure.
(Ord. 8-79, passed 4-23-1979) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.38 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR BURNING ON CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION SITES.
   During the construction or demolition of buildings or other structures, no
waste materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on the premises or
in the immediate vicinity without a permit or other proper authorization from
the LaGrange Fire Department.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.39 CONSTANT ATTENTION TO OPEN FIRES REQUIRED.
   Open fires, if permitted, shall be constantly attended by a competent person
not less than 18 years of age.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.40 AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT OPEN FIRES.
   The city may prohibit any or all open fires when natural conditions, the
materials being burned, or local circumstances make these fires potentially
hazardous or harmful, or environmentally regulated by county, state or federal
agencies.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.03   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.04   Hauling loose material
   
94.05   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.06   Litter on private property; owner’s duties
   
94.07   Depositing litter in receptacles
   
94.08   Littering parks
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish as defined herein.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or other
public area in the city, owned or used by the city and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited, temporarily or continuously uninhabited, or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to the dwelling, house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACES. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes including garbage,
rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles and solid
market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes,
cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and
similar materials.
(Ord. 6-78, passed 5-1-1978)
§ 94.02 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property. Violators may be issued citations by the Code Enforcement Officer
with right to a public hearing before the Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 6-78, passed 5-1-1978) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any
kind.
(Ord. 6-78, passed 5-1-1978) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk
or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in vehicles
provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of
the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place. Any materials which fall from, or which
are thrown, blown or deposited from any vehicle upon any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place, shall be removed immediately by the person in
charge of the vehicle.
(Ord. 6-78, passed 5-1-1978) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(Ord. 6-78, passed 5-1-1978) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; OWNER’S DUTIES.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
   (C)   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all
times maintain the premises free of litter. This section shall not prohibit the
storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for collection. Violators
shall be issued citations stating their right to be heard before the Code
Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 6-78, passed 5-1-1978) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 DEPOSITING LITTER IN RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street,
sidewalk or other public place within the city except in public receptacles, in
authorized private receptacles, or in official city dumps.
   (B)   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place, or
upon private property.
(Ord. 6-78, passed 5-1-1978) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 LITTERING PARKS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the city except
in public receptacles and in a manner that the litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon
any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not provided,
all litter shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for
its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided herein.
(Ord. 6-78, passed 5-1-1978) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 95: ALARM REGISTRY
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Registration
   
95.03   Alarm response
   
95.04   Hearing procedures
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any assembly of equipment arranged to signal the occurrence of
an illegal entry, fire, health emergency or other activity requiring urgent
attention and to which police, fire or emergency medical teams of the county or
city are expected to respond.
   ALARM USER. The person, partnership, association or corporation in control
of the building or structure or facility or portion thereof wherein an alarm
system is maintained.
   UNWANTED ALARM. An alarm signal eliciting a response by the police, fire or
emergency medical teams when a situation requiring a response by any of those
agencies does not in fact exist.
(Ord. 10-90, passed 9-4-1990)
§ 95.02 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an alarm user to have an operational alarm
system on his or her property unless that alarm system is registered with
County Central Dispatch as herein provided.
   (B)   Within 180 days from the effective date of this chapter, all alarm
users shall register their alarm systems with the County Dispatching Agency on
forms provided by that agency. There shall be no fee assessed for registering
the alarm systems.
   (C)   In addition to other needed information, the alarm system registration
shall include the type of alarm, the name, address and telephone number of the
user of the property wherein the alarm system is installed, and the emergency
telephone number of the user or his or her representative to permit prompt
notification of alarm calls and also to facilitate and assist the police in
inspection of the property when responding to alarms. Changes in emergency
telephone numbers shall be kept current, and failure to provide updated
information shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   A decal with the alarm user’s permit number will be issued with the
alarm user’s permit. The decal must be prominently posted on or near the front
entrance to the premises or structure so that the permit number on the decal is
visible from the outside of the structure or premises.
(Ord. 10-90, passed 9-4-1990)
§ 95.03 ALARM RESPONSE.
   (A)   Whenever an alarm is activated in the city requiring an emergency
response to the location by a police agency, fire department or emergency
medical personnel and there is an emergency response to the alarm, the police
officer or ranking official of such other agency as does respond shall inspect
the area protected by the system and shall determine whether the emergency
response was required as indicated by the alarm system or whether in some way
the alarm system malfunctioned or was activated by mistake and thereby was an
unwanted alarm.
   (B)   If the police officer or ranking official of another responding agency
determines the alarm to be an unwanted alarm, said officer or ranking official
shall make a report of the unwanted alarm, a notification of which shall be
mailed to the alarm user at the location of the said alarm system installation
advising the alarm user of the false alarm.
(Ord. 10-90, passed 9-4-1990)
§ 95.04 HEARING PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The LaGrange Code Enforcement Board is hereby authorized to hear
appeals from alarm users located within the city limits on the issue whether
the alarm system in question activated an unwanted alarm as determined by a
code enforcement officer or ranking official of another responding agency at
the scene of such activated alarm. Upon receipt of any false alarm report, the
alarm user shall have ten days, orally or in writing, to request a hearing
before the hearing officer.
   (B)   At the hearing, which must be scheduled and concluded within 15 days
from the date the request from same is received, the alarm user shall have the
right to present evidence and testimony. The hearing officer shall make written
findings available to the alarm user and the ranking officer of the responding
agency within ten days from the date the hearing is concluded.
(Ord. 10-90, passed 9-4-1990)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   It is hereby found that unwanted or false alarms within any calendar year is
excessive and constitutes a public nuisance, and violators shall be subject to
penalties as set forth in §
92.99.
(Ord. 10-90, passed 9-4-1990)
CHAPTER 96: FAIR HOUSING PRACTICES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   City policy
   
96.03   Unlawful practices
   
96.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
96.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
96.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
96.07   Exemption
   
96.08   Administration
   
96.09   Education and conciliation
   
96.10   Enforcement
   
96.11   Investigations; subpoenas; giving of evidence
   
96.12   Enforcement by private persons
   
96.13   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
96.14   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
96.04,
96.05 or
96.06.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 3-95, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 96.02 CITY POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the city.
(Ord. 3-95, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 96.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section and §
96.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth in this section shall apply to all dwellings except as exempted by
division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in §
96.04 shall apply to any single-family house sold or rented by an owner:
      (1)   Provided that the private individual owner does not own more than
three single-family houses at any one time;
      (2)   Provided further, in the case of the sale of any single-family
house by a private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of
the sale or who was not the most recent resident of the house prior to the
sale, the exemption granted by this division (B) shall apply only with respect
to one sale within any 24-month period;
      (3)   Provided further, that the bona fide private individual owner does
not own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf,
under any express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a
portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of, more than three single-
family houses at any one time; and
      (4)   Provided further, that the sale or rental of any single-family
house shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only if the house
is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman,
or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any broker, agent, salesman
or person and without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
96.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
         (b)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of the living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) of this section, a person shall be
deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 3-95, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 96.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
96.03, and except as exempted by §§
96.03(B) and
96.07, it shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, familial status or disability status;
   (B)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or privileges
of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or facilities
in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, familial status or disability status;
   (C)   Make print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status or disability
status, or an intention to make any preference, limitation or discrimination;
or
   (D)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status, or disability status that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when the dwelling is in fact so
available.
(Ord. 3-95, passed 3-6-1995) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of any loan or other
financial assistance, because of the race, color, religion or national origin
of the person or of any person associated with him or her in connection with
the loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of the loan or other
financial assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants
or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which the loan or
other financial assistance is to be made or given; provided that nothing
contained in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the
exception contained in §
96.03(B).
(Ord. 3-95, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 96.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of access, membership or participation, on account of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, familial status or disability status.
(Ord. 3-95, passed 3-6-1995) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in the religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a private club not in fact open
to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
(Ord. 3-95, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 96.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be vested in the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may delegate any of these functions, duties and powers to
employees of the city or to boards of such employees, including functions,
duties and powers with respect to investigating, conciliating, hearing,
determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or otherwise acting as to any
work, business or matter under this chapter. The Mayor shall by rule prescribe
the rights of appeal from the decisions of his or her hearing examiners to
other hearing examiners or to other officers in the city, to boards of
officers, or to himself or herself, as shall be appropriate and in accordance
with the law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Mayor to further these purposes.
(Ord. 3-95, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 96.09 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Mayor shall commence
such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the purposes of
this chapter. He or she shall call conferences of persons in the housing
industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of
this chapter and his or her suggested means of implementing it, and shall
endeavor with their advice to establish programs of voluntary compliance and
enforcement.
(Ord. 3-95, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 96.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the Mayor. Complaints shall be in writing
and shall contain such information and be in such form as the Mayor requires.
Upon receipt of such a complaint, the Mayor shall furnish a copy of the same to
the person or persons who allegedly committed or are about to commit the
alleged discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving a
complaint, or within 30 days after the expiration of any period of reference
under division (C) of this section, the Mayor shall investigate the complaint
and give notice in writing to the person aggrieved whether he or she intends to
resolve it. If the Mayor decides to resolve the complaints, he or she shall
proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing
practice by informal methods of conference, conciliation and persuasion.
Nothing said or done in the course of these informal endeavors may be made
public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this chapter
without the written consent of the persons concerned. Any employee of the Mayor
who shall make public any information shall be in violation of this provision
and shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
96.99.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) of this section shall be filed within
180 days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegation of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him or her and with the leave of the Mayor, which shall be granted
whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his or her answer
at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Mayor, the Mayor
has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this chapter, the person
aggrieved may, within 30 days thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary
of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Mayor will assist in
this filing.
   (D)   If the Mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance within 30
days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days hereafter
commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the respondent named
in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected by this chapter,
insofar as those rights relate to the subject of the complaint, If the court
finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur,
the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in the practice or order
affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Mayor shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary compliance.
(Ord. 3-95, passed 3-6-1995) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.11 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS; GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the Mayor shall have access at all
reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and other
evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record, and copy the
materials and take and record the testimony or statements of any persons as are
reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided,
however, that the Mayor first complies with the provisions of the Fourth
Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The Mayor may issue
subpoenas to compel his or her access to or the production of materials, or the
appearance of persons, and may issue interrogatories to a respondent, to the
same extent and subject to the same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas
or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a civil action in the United
States district court for the district in which the investigation is taking
place. The Mayor may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Mayor, a respondent shall be entitled
to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in the name of the
Mayor to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as subpoenas
issued by the Mayor himself or herself. Subpoenas issued at the request of a
respondent shall show on their face the name and address of the respondent and
shall state that they were issued at his or her request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Mayor shall be entitled to the
same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings in United States
district courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a subpoena issued at the
request of a respondent shall be paid by him or her.
   (D)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, the
person may petition the Mayor to revoke or modify the subpoena. The Mayor shall
grant the petition if he or she finds that the subpoena requires appearance or
attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it requires production of
evidence which does not relate to any matter under investigation, that it does
not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be produced, that
compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other good reason.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Mayor or other
person at whose request it was issued may petition for its enforcement in the
state court for the district in which the person to whom the subpoena was
addressed resides, was served or transacts business.
   (F)   No person shall willfully fail or neglect to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or other evidence,
if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order
of the Mayor. No person shall, with intent thereby to mislead the Mayor, make
or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact in any report,
account, record or other document submitted to the Mayor pursuant to its
subpoena or other order, or willfully neglect or fail to make or cause to be
made full, true and correct entries in any reports, accounts, records or other
documents, or willfully mutilate, alter or by any other means falsify any
documentary evidence.
   (G)   The City Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Mayor
participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 3-95, passed 3-6-1995) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.12 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted by §§
96.03 through
96.06 may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts of general
jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days after the
alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided, however, that the
court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this section or §
96.10(D) from time to time before bringing it to trial, if the court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the Mayor are likely to result in satisfactory
settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained of in the
complaint made to the Mayor and which practice forms the basis for the action
in court; and provided, however, that any sale, encumbrance, or rental
consummated prior to the issuance of any court order issued under the authority
of this chapter, and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer or tenant
without actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or civil
action under the provisions of this chapter shall not be affected.
   (B)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the case of
a prevailing plaintiff; provided, that the plaintiff, in the opinion of the
court, is not financially able to assume the attorney fees.
(Ord. 3-95, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 96.13 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
96.03 through
96.06. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Ord. 3-95, passed 3-6-1995) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.14 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   No person shall, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, disability or
national origin and because he or she is or has been selling, purchasing,
renting, financing, occupying or contracting or negotiating for the sale,
purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or applying for or
participating in any service, organization or facility relating to the business
of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
that person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, disability or national origin, in any of the activities, services,
organizations or facilities described in division (A) of this section; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion or national origin, in any of the activities, services,
organizations or facilities described in division (A) of this section, or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to so participate.
(Ord. 3-95, passed 3-6-1995) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of a citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 97: TREE PRESERVATION
Section
   
97.01   Definition
   
97.02   Creation and establishment of City Tree Board
   
97.03   Term of office
   
97.04   Compensation
   
97.05   Duties and responsibilities
   
97.06   Operation
   
97.07   Street tree species to be planted
   
97.08   Distance from curb to sidewalk
   
97.09   Public tree care
   
97.10   Tree topping
   
97.11   Pruning corner clearance
   
97.12   Dead or diseased tree removal on public property
   
97.13   Removal of trees and branches that impede traffic
   
97.14   Interference with Tree Board prohibited
   
97.15   Review by City Council; appeal
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or on the
rights-of-way or easements within the city. Boundaries to property lines may be
indicated on deeds or plats. STREET TREES may include any trees on city parks,
traffic circles or traffic triangles which are the property of the city.
Boundary disputes shall be submitted to the county surveyor or the planning and
zoning maps will be used for resolution.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 97.02 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF CITY TREE BOARD.
   There is hereby created and established a Tree Board for the city which may
consist of not more than five nor less than three citizens who are residents of
this city, and who shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of the City
Council. If no Tree Board is appointed, the duties and responsibilities shall
be assumed by the Director of Public Works in accordance with §
97.05.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 97.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The initial Tree Board members shall serve one year and all future Board
members will serve for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur
during the term of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed by the
Mayor and approved by the City Council for the unexpired portion of the term.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 97.04 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 97.05 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate,
counsel, develop, administer and/or update annually and administer the written
plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or
disposition of trees and shrubs along streets and in other public areas. The
plan will be presented to the City Council when a plan is established or any
changes are made to the plan, and upon their acceptance and approval by the
City Council, shall constitute the official comprehensive tree plan for the
city.
   (B)   The Board, when requested by the City Council, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 97.06 OPERATION.
   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations,
subject to approval of the City Council. A majority of its members shall be a
quorum for the transaction of business. All members will be notified at least
24 hours before a Tree Board meeting is to occur.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 97.07 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The Tree Board may formulate an official street tree list of species and
sub-species for the city. The list of allowable species shall be broken down
into categories of small, medium and large trees. No citizen shall plant any
trees on city right-of-way, city property or city parks without approval of the
Board or Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 97.08 DISTANCE FROM CURB TO SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees and bushes shall be planted from curbs or curblines, and
sidewalks, and rights-of-way will be in accordance with the three species size
classes listed in §
97.06. No trees shall be planted in any ditch line or easement used for storm
water runoff.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 97.09 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the right-of-way or easement lines of all streets,
alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to
ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such
public grounds without the approval of the Tree Board. The city may remove or
cause to be removed, any tree or part thereof, in the city’s right-of-way or
other public property, which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of
its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water
lines, sidewalks or other public improvements, or is affected with any
injurious fungus, insect or other pests without the Tree Board approval.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 97.10 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or entity,
with the exception of the Public Works Department, to top any street tree, park
tree or other tree on public property. TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting
back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree’s
crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the
tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under
utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical may be exempt from this section at the determination of the City
Tree Board. It is unlawful for any person to prune any tree on city property,
city rights-of-way or city parks without the permission of the Tree Board and/
or Public Works Department.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 97.11 PRUNING CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches so that the branches shall not obstruct the view
of any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of eight
feet above the surface of the street or sidewalk. Owners shall remove all dead,
diseased or dangerous trees or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a
menace to the safety of the public. The city shall have the right to require
the property owner, upon ten days’ written notice, to prune any tree or shrub
private property when the tree or shrub interferes with the visibility of any
traffic-control device or sign, or intersection. Removal shall be done by the
owners at their own expense within ten days after the date of service of
notice. In the event of failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the
city shall have the authority to do the trimming or pruning and charge the cost
of trimming or pruning and removal on the owner’s property tax bill.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 97.12 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   After review of the Tree Board, and upon the Board’s recommendation, the
city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead trees within the
city’s right-of-way or easement when such trees constitute a hazard to life and
property or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential threat to
other trees within the city.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 97.13 REMOVAL OF TREES AND BRANCHES THAT IMPEDE TRAFFIC.
   Trees and branches which fall across public streets, sidewalks or foot paths
that impede traffic shall be cleared by the city from such public way at the
city’s expense.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 97.14 INTERFERENCE WITH TREE BOARD PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
Tree Board or Public Works or any of its agents or servants while engaging in
and about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of
any street tree as authorized in this chapter.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 97.15 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL; APPEAL.
   The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall have the right to review the
conduct, acts and decisions of the Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any
ruling or order of the Tree Board to the Board of Adjustments and Appeals who
may hear the matter and make the final decision, provided the appeal is filed,
in writing, within ten days of the ruling or order appealed from.
(Ord. 15-95, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
Cross-reference:
   General penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 98: PARKS
Section
Wilborn Park
   
98.01   Adoption of rules and regulations
   
98.02   Park season
   
98.03   Park hours
   
98.04   General rules for lakes or open spaces
   
98.05   Fishing policy at Wilborn Park, The Glen and Eagle Creek Golf Course
Walsh Park
   
98.20   General rules
Mundo Park
   
98.35   Rules and regulations
   
98.36   Springs Park
 
   
98.99   Penalty
WILBORN PARK
§ 98.01 ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations covering park season, park hours,
general rules and fishing policy are hereby adopted by the city. This chapter
will be enforced by the LaGrange Code Enforcement Board or the Oldham County
District Court.
(Ord. 13-97, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 98.02 PARK SEASON.
   (A)   Open daily. Memorial Day through Labor Day weekend.
   (B)   Open weekends. April 1 through Memorial Day weekend and Labor Day
through December 1.
   (C)   Closed. December 1 through April 1.
(Ord. 13-97, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 98.03 PARK HOURS.
   (A)   The parks shall be open to the public during daylight hours only.
   (B)   The parks shall be closed on Mondays for general maintenance. (Closed
on Tuesday when holiday weekends include Monday.)
(Ord. 13-97, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 98.04 GENERAL RULES FOR LAKES OR OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Parks with lakes will be open during daylight hours only.
   (B)   All children must be accompanied by an adult.
   (C)   Watercraft of any type are not allowed on lakes.
   (D)   No wading or swimming at any time.
   (E)   No hunting or trapping at any time.
   (F)   Groundfires or bonfires are not permitted.
   (G)   No ice skating or walking on frozen water.
   (H)   No camping.
   (I)   No open playing of radios or boom boxes.
   (J)   No littering.
   (K)   No alcohol allowed.
   (L)   No feeding the geese or ducks.
   (M)   Pets must be on leashes at all times, unless a specific pet run area
is secured.
   (N)   Citations may be issued for violations of park rules by the Code
Enforcement Officer or police officers.
(Ord. 9-2011, passed 8-1-2011; Ord. 18-2014, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 98.05 FISHING POLICY AT WILBORN PARK, THE GLEN AND EAGLE CREEK GOLF COURSE.
   (A)   Catch and keep rules.
      (1)   Each fisherman must have a valid Kentucky fishing license.
      (2)   Rainbow trout.
         (a)   Daily limit: five.
         (b)   Minimum size limit: none.
         (c)   No culling of trout. (CULLING is holding a trout in a live well,
fish basket or stringer and later replacing it with another.)
      (3)   Largemouth bass.
         (a)   Daily limit: one.
         (b)   Minimum size limit: 15 inches.
      (4)   Catfish.
         (a)   Daily limit: four.
         (b)   Minimum size limit: none.
      (5)   Bluegill/other sunfish.
         (a)   Daily limit: 15.
         (b)   Minimum size limit: none.
      (6)   Fifteen fish limit per 24-hour period.
   (B)   Fishing is permitted at Wilborn Park, The Glen and at Eagle Creek Golf
Course; however, at the golf course, fishing is only allowed at the front pond
adjacent to Highway 53 and the side pond at the golf course adjacent to
Lakewood Drive. Fishing is prohibited at all other ponds at the golf course.
(Ord. 13-97, passed 9-2-1997; Ord. 17-2017, passed 12-4-2017)
WALSH PARK
§ 98.20 GENERAL RULES.
   (A)   The park will be open during daylight hours only.
   (B)   All children must be accompanied by an adult.
   (C)   Groundfires or bonfires are not permitted.
   (D)   No camping, except by special group permit.
   (E)   No open playing of radios or boom boxes.
   (F)   No littering.
   (G)   No alcohol allowed.
   (H)   Please properly dispose of trash in waste containers or take trash
with you when you leave.
   (I)   Note: citations will be issued for violations of park rules.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 9-2011, passed 8-1-2011)
MUNDO PARK
§ 98.35 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Park open during daylight hours only.
   (B)   All children must be accompanied by an adult.
   (C)   Groundfires or bonfires are not permitted.
   (D)   No camping, except by special group permit.
   (E)   No open playing of radios or boom boxes.
   (F)   No littering.
   (G)   No alcohol allowed.
   (H)   Please properly dispose of trash in waste containers or take trash
with you when you leave.
   (I)   Please park in designated areas only.
   (J)   Any and all pets shall be under owner’s control at all times.
   (K)   Note: citations will be issued for violations of park rules.
(Ord. 1-2007, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 9-2011, passed 8-1-2011) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.36 SPRINGS PARK.
   All general rules and regulations for other parks and public properties, as
the case may be, shall apply to Springs Park. Specific rules may be posted at
the playground, splash pad, skate park, basketball court, pavilion or other
facilities, subject to penalties for violations under §
98.99
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 99: EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
99.01   Authority and scope
   
99.02   Storage, transportation and use
   
99.03   Blasting permits
   
99.04   Manufacture and sale
 
   
99.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks and fire prevention, see
Ch. 93
§ 99.01 AUTHORITY AND SCOPE.
   (A)   This code shall apply to the manufacture, possession, storage, sale,
transportation and use of explosives and blasting agents.
   (B)   This code shall not apply to:
      (1)   Explosives or blasting agents while in the course of transportation
via railroad, water, highway or air when the explosives and blasting agents are
being moved under the jurisdiction of, and in conformity with, regulations
adopted by any federal or state department or agency;
      (2)   The transportation and use of explosives or blasting agents in the
normal and emergency operation of state or federal agencies nor to municipal
fire and police departments, providing they are acting in their official
capacity and in the proper performance of their duties;
      (3)   Small arms ammunition and components thereof, which are subject to
the Gun Control Act of 1968 (18 U.S.C. Chapter 44) and regulations promulgated
thereunder;
      (4)   Blasting standards KRS 351.315 through 351.370 and regulations 805
KAR 4:010 through 4:060; and
      (5)   Explosives or blasting agents being used on the site of federal or
state projects.
(Ord. 4-2004, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 15-2004, passed 9-7-2004)
§ 99.02 STORAGE, TRANSPORTATION AND USE.
   All activities within the scope of this code shall conform to the
regulations of the Kentucky Department of Mines and Minerals 805 KAR 4:005
through 805 KAR 4:165.
(Ord. 4-2004, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 15-2004, passed 9-7-2004)
§ 99.03 BLASTING PERMITS.
   (A)   No person or corporation shall conduct a blasting operation within the
city without first obtaining a permit from the Director of the Public Works
Department, or his or her designee.
   (B)   The fee for a blasting permit or permit renewal shall be $250.
   (C)   No person or corporation shall be issued a permit to blast within the
city unless the person to be in charge of the blasting holds a valid state
blasters license and a current city business license.
   (D)   The blasting permits shall specify the location of the blasting to be
permitted and shall be supported by a site map showing any and all structures
within 1,000 feet of the blasting.
   (E)   In the event that a project is not completed at the expiration of a
blasting permit, the blasting permit may be renewed annually upon the
applicant’s payment of the renewal fee and review by the Director of the Public
Works Department.
   (F)   A permit allowing blasting may be issued upon completion of
application, review and proof of notification and shall not become valid until
ten days after its issuance. The Public Works Director shall review and approve
or deny the application. The person in charge of the blasting shall provide
verification of notification to the following agencies: the City Police
Department; the City Fire Department; and the City Utilities Commission.
   (G)   The person in charge of the blasting shall also publish a blasting
schedule at least ten days before the planned initiation of blasting. The
blasting schedule shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in
the locality of the blasting site.
   (H)   The blasting schedule shall contain at a minimum:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the blasting permitee;
      (2)   Identification of the specific areas in which blasting will take
place;
      (3)   Identification of the dates and time periods when explosives are to
be detonated;
      (4)   Identification of the methods to be used to control access to the
blasting area; and
      (5)   Identification of the types and patterns of audible warnings and
all-clear signals to be used before and after blasting.
   (I)   False statements, made for the purpose of obtaining a permit, shall
render the permit null and void from the time of issue.
(Ord. 4-2004, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 15-2004, passed 9-7-2004) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.04 MANUFACTURE AND SALE.
   (A)   No person or corporation shall operate a business establishment where
explosives are maintained for the sale, or manufacture for sale, of explosives
in the city without first obtaining a permit from the Director of the Public
Works Department.
   (B)   The fee for this permit is $250.
(Ord. 4-2004, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 15-2004, passed 9-7-2004) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSE TAX
      
111.   TEMPORARY VENDOR PERMIT
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
114.   PRECIOUS METALS DEALERS
      
115.   BANK FRANCHISE/LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
      
116.   CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS
      
117.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
      
118.   COMPENSATION TAX
      
119.   RENTAL PROPERTIES
      
120.   HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLES
      
121.   CANNABIS BUSINESS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSE TAX
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License application required
   
110.03   Business license tax payment required
   
110.04   Apportionment
   
110.05   Returns required
   
110.06   Extensions
   
110.07   Refunds
   
110.08   Federal audit provisions
   
110.09   Administrative provisions
   
110.10   Information to remain confidential
   
110.11   Use of business license tax
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit in the city. BUSINESS
shall not include the usual activities of board trade, Chambers of Commerce,
trade associations, or unions, or other associations performing services
usually performed by trade associations or unions. BUSINESS shall not include
funds, foundations, corporations or associations organized and operated for the
exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
educational, civic or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings,
incomes or receipts of the unit, group or association, inures to the benefit of
any private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   CITY. The City of LaGrange, Kentucky.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of the person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for the services,
the term EMPLOYER means the person having control of the payment of the wages;
and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, the term EMPLOYER means the person.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months ending on the last day of any
month other than December.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All revenues or proceeds derived from the sale, lease or
rental of goods or services, or property by a business entity reduced by the
following:
      (1)   Sales and excise taxes paid; and
      (2)   Returns and allowances.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31,
2006, exclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than
amendments that extend provisions in effect on December 31, 2004, that would
otherwise terminate.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or nonresident of the city.
Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a penalty
in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a partnership
or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and directors
thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease or rental of goods, services or
property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any city of the first to fifth class, county, urban county,
charter county, consolidated local government, school district, special taxing
district or any other statutorily created entity with the authority to levy net
profits, gross receipts or occupational license taxes.
   TAXABLE GROSS RECEIPTS.
      (1)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenues, both
within and without the city, means GROSS RECEIPTS as defined in the Internal
Revenue Code, and as apportioned under §
110.04.
      (2)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenues only
within the city, means GROSS RECEIPTS as defined in the Internal Revenue Code.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net income is computed.
(Ord. 28-2007, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 110.02 LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person and business entity engaged in any business in the city
shall be required to apply for and obtain a business license from the city
before the commencement of business or in the event of a change of business
status.
   (B)   A stop work order may be issued by a Code Enforcement Officer with any
citation for a violation and all business activities that are alleged to be in
furtherance of violations must cease upon the issuance of the stop work order.
   (C)   If a civil action is filed to collect an imposed fine and/or interest,
or to enforce a stop work order, then attorney fees or legal costs incurred by
the city shall be recovered from the violator and awarded to the city by the
court.
   (D)   Licensees are required to notify the city of any changes in address,
the cessation of business or any other changes that render the information
supplied to the city in the license application, inaccurate.
   (E)   Exemptions.
      (1)   In conformity with the law of the Commonwealth, the burden of
proving entitlement to an exemption is on the party claiming an exemption to
demonstrate his, her or its entitlement to the exemption. Exemptions from
taxation are generally disfavored and all doubts are resolved against an
exemption. Some nonresident persons and businesses may be exempt from this tax.
It is the burden of a nonresident person to prove that he, she or it is
entitled to an exemption.
      (2)   If a nonresident claims an exemption, that must be shown by
demonstrating in an affidavit that he, she or it has an isolated and infrequent
connection to the city for business.
(Ord. 28-2007, passed 12-3-2007; Ord. 20-2013, passed 11-4-2013; Ord. 2-2014,
passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 16-2014, passed 9-2-2014; Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 BUSINESS LICENSE TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, every person
or business entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or
business entity that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue
Service or the Kentucky Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to
the city a business license tax for the privilege of engaging in such
activities within the city. The business license tax shall be measured by a
percentage of the gross receipts according to the following schedule from
business conducted in the city by a resident or nonresident business entity.
 
Gross Receipts                         Tax Rate
First $0.01 to $1,000,000              $0.0008
Balance of income $1,000,000.01 and up $0.0005
 
      (2)   Or, at a minimum, $55, whichever is greater, for the privilege of
engaging in any business within the city.
   (B)   The business license tax imposed in this section shall not apply to
employees as defined in §
110.01, nor to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company, combined
trust, banking and title insurance company organized and doing business in this
state, any savings and loan association whether state or federally chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the Kentucky National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, county and local primary, regular or
special elections;
      (4)   Public service corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the state’s Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly a non-
public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required to
pay a license fee on their gross receipts derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the city;
      (5)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Chapter 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages. Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion
of their gross receipts derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages; and
      (6)   Life insurance companies incorporated under the laws of and doing
business in the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 28-2007, passed 12-3-2007; Ord. 7-2016, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 110.04 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, gross receipts
shall be apportioned as follows for business entities with sales revenue in
more than one tax district, by multiplying the gross receipts by the sales
factor as set forth in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sale, lease or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenues from the sale, lease or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing the income-producing activity within the city, and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (C)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity’s business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of gross receipts.
   (D)   All partnerships, corporations and all other entities where income is
“passed through” to the owners, are subject to this chapter. The business
license tax imposed in this chapter is assessed against income before it is
“passed through” these entities to the owners.
   (E)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any business
license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the business
license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the business
entity had business activity in the city.
   (F)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the business license tax shall be computed for the purposes of this
chapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. 28-2007, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 110.05 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year beginning on April 15, 2009 for the tax year
beginning January 1, 2008, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal year,
which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the
close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Whenever, in the opinion of the city, it is necessary to examine the
federal income tax return of any business entity in order to audit the return,
the city may compel the business entity to produce for inspection a copy of any
statements and schedules in support thereof that have not been previously
filed. The city may also require copies of reports of adjustments made by the
federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to a business license tax governed by
the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability of the business entity.
   (D)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the business license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
   (F)   Every business entity making payments of $600 or more to persons other
than employees for services performed within the city, are responsible for
maintaining the records of those payments and for completing IRS Form 1099 on
or before February 28 of the year following the close of the calendar year in
which the compensation was paid. Persons or business entities not required to
remit a Form 1099 remain liable to the city to remit equivalent information for
any compensation made to persons or business entities that are not employees.
(Ord. 28-2007, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 110.06 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the business license tax, requests the extension and pays the amount properly
estimated as its tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business shall pay,
as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the tax
shown due on the return, but not previously paid, from the time the tax was due
until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the city. A fraction of
a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. 28-2007, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 110.07 REFUNDS.
   Where there has been an overpayment of gross receipts tax upon business
levied under §
110.03, a refund or credit shall be made to any person or business entity to
the extent of overpayment only upon a written application for refund or credit
to the city within two years from the date that overpayment was made.
(Ord. 28-2007, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 110.08 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city
may examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this section.
         (a)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
         (b)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates
gross receipts, or omits an amount properly includable in gross receipts, or
both, which understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the
amount of gross receipts stated in the return, the additional tax may be
assessed at any time within six years after the return was filed.
         (c)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly
to adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this section, or six months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (2)   The times provided in this section may be extended by agreement
between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this section, a
return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall
be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted for filing the
return shall also be considered as extending the last day prescribed by law for
filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 28-2007, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 110.09 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may
be refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is the
later, except that:
         (a)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
110.08 has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
city, the limitation contained in this section shall be extended accordingly.
         (b)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to
adjustments resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a
claim for refund or credit within the time provided for in this section or six
months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and division (A) of this section,
a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return
shall be considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Ord. 28-2007, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 110.10 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall intentionally
and without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns or reports required to be filed with the tax district or other proper
officer, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person’s business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer’s properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the tax district from testifying in any court, or from
introducing as evidence returns or reports filed with the tax district, in an
action for violation of a tax district tax laws or in any action challenging a
tax district tax laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue
of the Commonwealth or his or her duly authorized agent, all such information
and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the city if the
Commissioner of Revenue of the Commonwealth grants to the city the reciprocal
right to obtain information from the files and records of the Kentucky Revenue
Cabinet and maintains the privileged character of the information so furnished;
provided, further, that the city may publish statistics based on the
information in such a manner as not to reveal data respecting gross receipts or
compensation of any person.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) of this section with any other taxing
entity, should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect
diligent enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 28-2007, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 110.11 USE OF BUSINESS LICENSE TAX.
   All money derived from the license taxes under the provisions of this
chapter shall be paid to the city and placed to the credit of the city’s
General Revenue Fund.
(Ord. 28-2007, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $200, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 111: TEMPORARY VENDOR PERMIT
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Temporary vendor permit requirements
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Temporary vendor permit fees
   
111.10   Exceptions
   
111.11   Food services vendors
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EVENT. An association of more than ten itinerant merchants for the temporary
transaction of business within the city, not to exceed seven days.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares, foodstuffs, beverages or any object or information for
sale, rent, use or access.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle,
trailer, cart, tent, table or booth space, or any place within the city,
whether in a permanent, temporary or mobile unit.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT. A motor vehicle, truck, trailer, van or other mobile unit
engaged in the preparation or sale of food, beverages or other consumable
products, including alcohol, tobacco or similar substances.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale or rent, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any place within the city. A person who is a PEDDLER
is not an itinerant merchant.
   POP UP SHOP. A temporary, movable structure occupying less than 25 square
feet from which an itinerant merchant, solicitor, peddler or other person
engages in the sale of goods, performance of services or distribution of
information.
   SERVICES. A transaction in which no physical goods are transferred from the
seller to the buyer.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
   TEMPORARY. A period of time less than 30 consecutive days or less than 15
cumulative days within a single year, where a day means doing any business or
having any goods for sale within the city.
   VENDOR. Any person who is an ITINERANT MERCHANT, PEDDLER or SOLICITOR as
defined in this section.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 111.02 TEMPORARY VENDOR PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a temporary vendor permit before engaging in such activity within the
city.
   (B)   Any person who is coordinating or organizing an event within the city
shall obtain an event vendor permit before engaging in such activity within the
city.
   (C)   The fee for all temporary vendor permits required by this chapter
shall be as set forth in §
111.09.
   (D)   No temporary vendor permit issued under this chapter shall be
transferable.
   (E)   All temporary vendor permits issued under this chapter shall expire
one year after the date of issuance thereof.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   All applicants for vendor permit required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Code Enforcement Office for a temporary vendor permit.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or possesses any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the city at any time
for violations including, but not limited to, willful misstatements, fraudulent
activity, misrepresentation and any violation of local, state or federal laws.
Notice of the revocation shall be mailed to the permit holder at his or her
last known address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Council, within 14 days after notice of the decision
has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written statement setting
forth the grounds for appeal. The Council shall set the time and place for a
hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the person in the same
manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any permit issued to an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor under
this chapter shall be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In
the event more than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the
business, separate permits shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Office shall issue a permit to each itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor under this chapter. The permit shall contain the
name of the vendor, the issued and expiration date of the permit, and the
number of the permit. The permit shall be kept on the person of the individual
during such time as he or she is engaged in the permitted business.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 111.09 TEMPORARY VENDOR PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The fee for a temporary vendor permit shall be $20.The fee for an
event vendor permit shall be $5 per vendor, not to exceed $300.
   (B)   A temporary vendor permit may be renewed one time for an additional
fee of $20. An event vendor permit shall not be renewed.
   (C)   Any further business activity within the city in excess of that which
is allowed by a temporary permit and one extension shall require a business
license under §
110.02, payment of the license fee and quarterly payment of any compensation
taxes due and owing.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 111.10 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Vendors under the age of 18 are not required to obtain a temporary
vendor permit.
   (B)   The sale, delivery or peddling of fruits, vegetables, berries, eggs,
farm produce and agricultural products, including vendors participating in the
La Grange Farmers’ Market and Artisans do not require a temporary vendor
permit.
   (C)   Home-based revenue generating activities where services are advertised
and performed regularly are not exempt.
   (D)   Non-profit and not-for-profit fundraising sales carried on by
religious, charitable, educational, benevolent, fraternal or social
organizations which are registered with the Commonwealth of Kentucky as a non-
profit corporation, are exempt.
   (E)   Casual and isolated sales, including yard sales and garage sales
conducted on residential premises, are exempt.
   (F)   This chapter shall not apply to firework permits, which are covered
under
Chapter 93.
   (G)   Any holder of a current city business license is not required to
obtain a temporary vendor permit.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 111.11 FOOD SERVICES VENDORS.
   (A)   Every food service establishment and/or retail food service
establishment, as defined in KRS 217.015, in the city, including mobile food
units, shall be required to present proof of their/its permit from the Kentucky
Cabinet for Health Services as described in 902 KAR 45:110, and proof of
inspection as issued by the County Health Department, or the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, in accordance with the Kentucky Food Code, for reproduction by the
city, when application is tendered for a business license.
   (B)   Mobile food units shall not park on city right-of-way or any streets
located within the city limits without an approved event closing of right-of-
way form.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   For violations of this chapter, the civil fine for each offense shall be as
follows.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation, and
an additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $200, if paid within 30 days of citation,
and an additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation, and
an additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation.
(Ord. 1-2022, passed 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by PAWNBROKERS to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1,000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the provisions of this chapter
and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The register shall:
      (1)   Be reported to an online, Internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
      (2)   Of all persons who have left any property that has been pawned or
sold, show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, and the names and:
         (a)   A driver’s license number;
         (b)   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
         (c)   If the identification specified in divisions (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)
(b) of this section is not available, a Social Security number may be accepted.
      (3)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law enforcement
officer of the city when in the discharge of his or her official duty; and
      (4)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
division (A)(4), FULL DESCRIPTION includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Make;
         (b)   Model;
         (c)   Color;
         (d)   Size;
         (e)   Manufacturer;
         (f)   Vintage; and
         (g)   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
   (B)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the merchandise
shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
   (C) Prior to the release of property to a representative of law enforcement,
the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker a case
report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (D) Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned, by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying the person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers, and for other expenses,
losses and incidental costs associated with servicing these loans. Further,
this fee, when made and collected, shall not be deemed as interest for any
purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly charge, receive or
contract for any interest or consideration greater than that allowed by this
section.
(KRS 226.080) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for the payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time, nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter
unless otherwise provided by KRS 226.100.
   (B)   However, county police, for the purpose of locating stolen goods, may
carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04   Due date; interest
   
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
   
113.06   Requests for refunds
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
(Ord. 14-84, passed 10-15-1984; Ord. 11-90, passed 10-1-1990)
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 10% of the first year’s premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
(Ord. 14-84, passed 10-15-1984; Ord. 11-90, passed 10-1-1990; Ord. 29-2007,
passed 1-7-2008)
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 10% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar year by reason of the issuance
of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the city on
those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact, less
all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax imposed
upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers Compensation Act; premiums
received on policies of group health insurance provided for state employees
under KRS 18A.225(2); premiums received on health insurance policies issued to
individuals; and premiums received on policies issued through the state health
plan created in KRS 304.17B-005.
(Ord. 14-84, passed 10-15-1984; Ord. 11-90, passed 10-1-1990; Ord. 29-2007,
passed 1-7-2008)
§ 113.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(Ord. 14-84, passed 10-15-1984; Ord. 11-90, passed 10-1-1990)
§ 113.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 14-84, passed 10-15-1984; Ord. 11-90, passed 10-1-1990)
§ 113.06 REQUESTS FOR REFUNDS.
   (A)   No insurance company shall be entitled to a refund for any tax
erroneously paid pursuant to the terms of this section unless the request for
refund be made to the city in writing within 18 months of the end of the
calendar year on which the tax is paid. Additionally, the request shall be
accompanied by documentation supporting the request which shall include at
least the following:
      (1)   The name and address of each and every insured upon whom tax was
erroneously paid;
      (2)   The type of risk being insured against;
      (3)   The amount of the insurance premium charged by the company; and
      (4)   Other information as may be reasonably requested by the city.
   (B)   Further, unless the request for refund be made as set forth above, no
set off may be made by the insurance company for erroneously paid premium
against future taxes owed.
(Ord. 19-2007, passed 6-4-2007)
CHAPTER 114: PRECIOUS METALS DEALERS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Licensing agent
   
114.03   License required
   
114.04   Bond requirements
   
114.05   Exhibition of license
   
114.06   Regulation of license holders
   
114.07   Inspection of records and merchandise
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MERCHANT. Any person, firm or corporation or other business entity who shall
engage in, do, or transact any business in the city for the sale or purchase of
jewels, gems and precious metals, and who for the purpose of carrying on such
business shall hire, lease, use or occupy any building, structure, tent or
room, including rooms in hotels or lodging houses, any motor vehicle, car or
boat, or who shall use or occupy any street, alley or other public place.
   PRECIOUS METALS, JEWELS AND GEMS. Any items such as silver flatware, cups,
pitchers or other items such as jewelry, coins or wares, containing gold,
silver or other precious metal.
(Ord. 3-84, passed 2-20-1984)
§ 114.02 LICENSING AGENT.
   The County Zoning Administrator is hereby designated as the agent for
licensing by the City Council under the terms hereafter set out.
(Ord. 3-84, passed 2-20-1984)
§ 114.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every merchant engaged in the business of buying and selling precious
metals, jewels and gems within the limits of the city shall prior to the
beginning of operation pay a minimum annual license fee of $50, receiving
therefor a certificate or badge bearing an adequate identification of the
person. The license shall be in form prescribed by the County Zoning
Administrator. No license shall be transferable nor shall such license
authorize the activities licensed by any person other than the person to whom
it is issued.
(Ord. 3-84, passed 2-20-1984) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   No license shall be issued until the applicant has delivered a bond in the
amount of $5,000 with surety or sureties approved by the County Zoning
Administrator, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the acts
hereinafter set forth. The bond shall be in full force and effect until one
year after the merchant has ceased doing business in the city.
(Ord. 3-84, passed 2-20-1984) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   Every person, firm or corporation to whom a license is issued shall at all
times have the license certificate prominently and publicly displayed on the
site where the business is conducted.
(Ord. 3-84, passed 2-20-1984) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 REGULATION OF LICENSE HOLDERS.
   (A) No person, firm, or corporation licensed pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter shall:
      (1) Purchase any precious metals, jewel or gem from any person under the
age of l8 years;
      (2) Resell or modify in any way any merchandise purchased until the
expiration of at least ten days; and
      (3) Accept or purchase merchandise without recording or obtaining in a
form prescribed by the County Zoning Administrator:
         (a) The name, address, Social Security number, driver’s license number
and place of employment of the seller, as verified by two forms of
identification;
         (b) A photograph or digital image of the seller; and
         (c) A full description of the merchandise purchased. Such description
shall be in plain, legible, English handwriting. If any merchandise purchased
has engraved thereon any numbers, words or initials, or contains any setting or
marking of any kind, the description shall so state.
   (B) All information required pursuant to this section shall be available for
inspection for a period of one year.
(Ord. 3-84, passed 2-20-1984) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 INSPECTION OF RECORDS AND MERCHANDISE.
   Any person engaged as a merchant shall produce upon reasonable demand and
during regular business hours, any records or merchandise requested by any
member of the County Police Department, Kentucky State Police, city police,
City of Pewee Valley Police and the County Sheriff’s Department.
(Ord. 3-84, passed 2-20-1984) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 115: BANK FRANCHISE/LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
Section
   
115.01   Imposition of tax; tax rate
   
115.02   Lien on property
   
115.03   Use of tax funds
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 IMPOSITION OF TAX; TAX RATE.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on all “financial institutions”, as defined in
KRS Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city, for the 1996
tax year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% on all
deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136, maintained by such financial
institutions.
   (B)   For transition purposes, the 1996 tax year will be treated differently
in terms of collection of taxes than for all subsequent years. For the 1996 tax
year, the following timetable is hereby established. The city will issue tax
bills to financial institutions no later than May 1, 1997. Payment of the tax
shall be due with a 2% discount by May 31, 1997 or without the discount by June
30, 1997.
   (C)   For all tax years subsequent to the 1996 tax year, the following
timetable is hereby established. The city will issue tax bills to financial
institutions no later than December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be
due with a 2% discount by December 31 of each year or without the discount by
January 31 of each year.
(Ord. 10-96, passed 9-5-1996)
§ 115.02 LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject to
the tax imposed by these sections, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
(Ord. 10-96, passed 9-5-1996)
§ 115.03 USE OF TAX FUNDS.
   All monies collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid into the
General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 10-96, passed 9-5-1996)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 116: CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Certificate of registration required for charitable or civic
organizations; exemptions
   
116.03   Registration statement; registration fee
   
116.04   Issuance of certificates of registration; standards for granting or
denying a registration; notice of hearing
   
116.05   Closing statement to be filed on expiration of certificate
registration
   
116.06   Professional solicitors and fundraising consultants
   
116.07   Identification of registrant and charitable purpose
   
116.08   Revocation, suspension or refusal to renew any registration; notice of
hearing
   
116.09   Unlawful solicitation activity
   
116.10   Existing regulations
   
116.11   Finality of Administrator’s actions
   
116.12   Severability
   
116.98   Civil remedies
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person holding the position of Mayor, or his or her
designee, or any successor department or agency thereof.
   CHARITABLE OR CIVIC ORGANIZATION. Any person determined by the Internal
Revenue Service or the Kentucky Department of Revenue to be a tax-exempt
organization; or a person or organization defined under KRS 367.650(2).
   CHARITABLE OR CIVIC PURPOSE. Any purpose or activity which holds itself out
to be benevolent, educational, philanthropic, humane, patriotic, religious,
eleemosynary or fraternal or to be established for a social welfare or
advocacy, public health, environmental conservation, or civic purpose, or is
designed to serve the welfare of society generally or any class or group to
which society is morally obligated or a specific community or to preserve or
improve the culture thereof or environment enjoyed thereby; or as may otherwise
be defined under applicable federal or state statutes or revenue rulings of the
Internal Revenue Service or Kentucky Department of Revenue.
   CITY GOVERNMENT. City of LaGrange.
   CONTRIBUTION. Any grant, promise or pledge of money, credit, property,
financial assistance or other thing of any kind or value in response to a
solicitation for a charitable or civic purpose. It does not include: bona fide
fees, dues or assessments paid by members, if that membership is not conferred
solely as consideration for making a contribution in response to a
solicitation; or money, property or compensated services received from any
governmental authority.
   FUNDRAISING CONSULTANT. Any person, who, for compensation, plans, manages,
advises, consults or develops material for or with respect to the solicitation
for any charitable organization. A FUNDRAISING CONSULTANT shall not, at any
time, have custody of contributions from a solicitation or solicit
contributions, directly or indirectly. If a fundraising consultant’s fee is
related to the amount of contributions received from a solicitation in which he
or she took part, the consultant is considered a professional solicitor. A
FUNDRAISING CONSULTANT shall not employ, procure or otherwise engage any
compensated person to solicit contributions. A bona fide salaried officer,
employee or volunteer of a charitable organization shall not be deemed to be a
FUNDRAISING CONSULTANT, unless he or she is employed or engaged as a
fundraising consultant or a professional solicitor by another charitable
organization.
   HIGHWAY. Any public road, street, avenue, alley or boulevard, bridge,
viaduct or trestle and the approaches to them, including private residential
roads and parking lots covered by an agreement under KRS 61.362; and off-street
parking facilities offered for public use, whether publicly or privately owned,
except for-hire parking facilities listed in KRS 189.700.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, trust, partnership, organization,
foundation, society or other legal entity.
   PROFESSIONAL SOLICITOR.
      (1)   A person who for compensation or other financial consideration
solicits contributions in this city directly or indirectly, for or on behalf of
a charitable organization. A person qualifies as a professional solicitor if he
or she is hired on a fee, commission or percentage basis and the work is
performed by him or her, or his or her agents, or the employees or volunteers
of the benefitting charitable organization under the direction, supervision or
instruction of the solicitor. A PROFESSIONAL SOLICITOR conducts or supervises
specific fundraising activities or events in which gifts are solicited,
received and deposited by the professional solicitor or his or her agents,
expenses are paid, and net proceeds delivered to the charitable organization. A
bona fide salaried officer, employee or volunteer of a charitable organization
shall not be deemed to be a PROFESSIONAL SOLICITOR, unless he or she is
employed or engaged as a fundraising consultant or a professional solicitor by
another charitable organization.
      (2)   Any person, professional solicitor, fundraising consultant or
telemarketer who acts as a subcontractor or agent or employee for or on behalf
of any person, professional solicitor or fundraising consultant to solicit
contributions in the city directly or indirectly for or on behalf of any
charitable or civic organization, for purposes of this chapter shall be
considered as a professional solicitor and shall comply with all provisions of
this chapter.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any organization the activity of which is protected
by § 1(2) of the Kentucky Constitution and the First Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States.
   RESIDENT AGENT. A person who resides within Oldham County, Kentucky or a
Kentucky county, which borders Oldham County, Kentucky.
   SOLICIT and SOLICITATION. Engaging in or requesting, directly or indirectly,
that an addressed person or limited audience or the public generally make a
contribution or contributions. SOLICITATION shall be deemed to have taken place
when the request is made, whether or not the requested contribution is made.
   SOLICITOR. A natural person who, by personal contact, transmits an oral
communication or writing, which identifies that person, requests a specific
person to make a contribution for charitable or civic purposes.
(Ord. 13-2005, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 116.02 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED FOR CHARITABLE OR CIVIC
ORGANIZATIONS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Subject to the exceptions and exemptions contained in this chapter,
any person, other than a professional solicitor or fundraising consultant, who
solicits contributions or contracts with a professional solicitor or
fundraising consultant to solicit contributions from persons within the legal
boundaries of the city for charitable or civic purposes, shall have first
obtained a certificate of registration from the Administrator in the manner
prescribed by §§
116.03 and
116.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   In order to be eligible to obtain and maintain a certificate of
registration, a person must have a resident agent for purposes of receiving any
notice provided for in this chapter, furnishing information required or
requested by the Administrator, or for service of any civil or criminal
process.
   (C)   The following types of solicitations are hereby exempt from the
certificate of registration requirement as set forth in division (A) of this
section, except when soliciting charitable contributions on a highway and the
adjoining intersections thereof, then they are subject to division (A) of this
section, but are exempt from paying any fees under §§
116.03(D) or
116.04(H):
      (1)   Solicitations by a charitable or civic organization for
contributions solely from its members and their families, provided that
membership in such organizations is not included in the solicitation in order
to avoid the provisions of this chapter, and further provided that such
memberships are not granted solely upon the basis of such contributions;
      (2)   Solicitations by a religious organization for contributions for
religious purposes such as maintenance of a house of worship, conduct of
services and propagation of its faith or tenets as distinguished from other
charitable and civic purposes employed by non-religious organizations;
      (3)   Solicitations by a publicly owned or non-profit privately endowed
educational institution which is approved or licensed by the State Board of
Education, the Council on Higher Education or an equivalent public authority of
the jurisdiction where such institution is located, when such solicitations are
sought from its alumni, faculty members, student body and their families, and
corporations, for the establishment or continuance of the institution’s
educational program; and
      (4)   Solicitations by a student group or parent-teacher association on
behalf of their educational institution or its related activities, conducted
with the approval of the administration of said educational institution.
   (D)   For any purpose under this chapter where a Social Security number is
required to be furnished, a person may in lieu thereof submit any other
government-issued identification number.
(Ord. 13-2005, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 116.03 REGISTRATION STATEMENT; REGISTRATION FEE.
   (A)   Any person required to obtain a certificate of registration pursuant
to §
116.02(A) of this chapter shall submit a sworn written registration statement
to the Administrator, as well as a law enforcement records check authorization.
All registration statements shall be on forms provided by the Administrator and
they shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The full legal name of the person registering to solicit
contributions for charitable purposes;
      (2)   Whether the person registering is an individual, partnership,
corporation or association, and:
         (a)   If an individual, such person’s business and residential
address, business and residential telephone number, date of birth and Social
Security number;
         (b)   If a partnership, the business address and telephone number of
the partnership and the full legal names of all partners, their principal
business and residential addresses, business and residential telephone numbers,
date of birth and Social Security numbers;
         (c)   If a corporation, the state of incorporation, the mailing
address, principal business location, Social Security number, residential
address and telephone number and full legal name of the individual with overall
operating responsibility of the local office of the corporation, the names of
all officers and directors or trustees of the corporation and the tax
identification or employer identification number, if any, of the corporation,
and a copy of the articles of incorporation; and
         (d)   If an association, the association’s principal business address
and telephone number, if any, and the full legal names and principal business
and residential addresses, telephone numbers, Social Security numbers, and date
of birth of all members of the association. If there are more than ten members
of the association, however, the person registering may alternatively list the
full legal names, principal business and residential addresses, telephone
numbers, Social Security numbers, and date of birth of the officers and
directors of trustees of the association. If the association is part of a
multi-state organization or association, the mailing address and street
location of its principal headquarters shall be given, in addition to the
mailing address and business location of its local office.
      (3)   The charitable or civic purpose of the solicitation, the amount or
value of contributions intended to be raised for such purposes, and an estimate
of approximate expenses that will be incurred in connection with the
solicitation, including any wages, fees, commissions, expenses or emoluments to
be expended or paid to any person in connection with such solicitation;
      (4)   The full legal names, residential addresses, Social Security
numbers and date of birth of all individuals authorized to incur expenses
related to the solicitation or to disburse any proceeds of the solicitation;
      (5)   The full legal name, business and residential address, telephone
number, Social Security number and date of birth of each person, up to five
individuals, who will have organizational responsibility with respect to the
solicitation of contributions. If any such person is a professional solicitor
or fundraising consultant, however, that person will be so identified by
registrant and for each professional solicitor or fund raising consultant, the
registrant shall provide either the information required by §
116.03(A)(2) or the certificate of registration number, for the professional
solicitor or fundraising consultant;
      (6)   The time period within which the solicitation of contributions is
to be made, giving the date of the beginning of solicitation and its projected
conclusion;
      (7)   The dates and times of proposed solicitations, and the highways and
the adjoining intersections thereof where solicitations are to be conducted for
the next year following the date of the application. Only one person or group
of persons shall be allowed to solicit charitable contributions on the highways
and adjoining intersections thereof at any given time;
      (8)   The registrant shall list the five most populous cities in which it
has solicited contributions during the previous five years;
      (9)   Evidence that the registrant has third-party liability insurance
with a single limit of no less than $500,000 which insurance covers the
activities of all of the registrant’s officers, agents, employees, volunteers
and contractors;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that the granting of a certificate of
registration by the city will not be used as or represented to be an
endorsement by the city or any of its officers or employees;
      (11)   As to each, if any, officer, director, trustee, partner or any
current agent or employee engaging in the solicitation of contributions who,
within the past five years has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude, shall provide the full legal name, Social Security
number, and date of birth of the individual, the nature of the offense, the
state where the conviction occurred, and the year of the conviction;
      (12)   If the registrant is unable to provide any of the foregoing
information, the registrant shall set forth an explanation of the reasons why
such information is not available; and
      (13)   Each registration statement shall be signed by an individual on
behalf of the person registering. If the person registering is an individual,
then such individual shall sign the registration statement. If the registrant
is a partnership, then the managing partner or the partner charged with
disbursing the contributions solicited shall sign. If the registrant is a
corporation or an association, then its chief executive officer or the officer
charged with disbursing the contributions solicited shall sign. The individual
signing the registration statement shall sign the statement and swear before an
officer authorized to administer oaths that the individual has read the
registration statement and that all the information contained therein is true
and correct to the best of the individual’s knowledge.
   (B)   Compliance with the registration statement requirements of §
116.03(A) hereof may be met by filing with the Director a complete and accurate
copy of the disclosure requirement statement prepared and filed with the
Kentucky Attorney General pursuant to KRS 367.650 through 367.670 et seq., and
specifically with KRS 367.668. Said copy of the disclosure statement filed with
the Kentucky Attorney General shall be re-executed by the appropriate officer
(s) of the soliciting entity, under oath, within 90 days prior to the date upon
which said copy is filed with the Director.
   (C)   The disclosure statement shall be accompanied by the Internal Revenue
Service Form 990 most recently filed by the soliciting entity, and each
succeeding Form 990 shall, by copy, be filed with the Director so long as the
soliciting entity shall continue making charitable solicitations within the
city. Such filing will satisfy all periodic reporting requirements under this
chapter.
   (D)   Unless the applicant is exempt from paying fees under §
116.02(C), every registration statement shall be accompanied by a $50
registration and processing fee, which fee is non-refundable.
(Ord. 13-2005, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 116.04 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION; STANDARDS FOR GRANTING OR
DENYING A REGISTRATION; NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   Within ten working days of the receipt of the registration statement,
the Administrator shall either issue a certificate of registration or notify
the registrant that the registration statement does not comply with
requirements of §
116.03(A) and specifically identify what information or explanation has not
been furnished.
   (B)   Within five working days of the receipt of written information or
explanation not previously furnished by the registrant, the Administrator shall
issue the certificate of registration, unless the Administrator determines:
      (1)   Any statement made in the application is untrue, false, misleading,
incomplete or factually incorrect; and/or
      (2)   The applicant or the principal officers of the organization
submitting the application have been previously convicted of violating the
provisions of this chapter, or convicted of violating similar statutes or
ordinances enacted by other jurisdictions to regulate the conduct of charitable
solicitations, or convicted of any crime involving fraud or theft by deception
in the last five years.
   (C)   In the event that the Administrator makes an affirmative finding as to
divisions(B)(1) and/or (B)(2) of this section, the Administrator shall give
written notice to the applicant by certified mail, which notice states the
deficiency found in applicant’s registration statement, and that the
registration is denied.
   (D)   In the event that a registration is denied for any reason, the
applicant may request a hearing before the Administrator or his or her designee
by filing with the Administrator within five working days of receipt of the
Administrator’s denial a written request that the Administrator reconsider the
denial. The request shall set forth with specificity the reasons for the
request. The Administrator shall conduct a hearing within 15 working days of
the date of receipt of the applicant’s request, unless the applicant requests
an extension and agrees, in writing, not to conduct any solicitation activity
during the period prior to the hearing. The applicant may be present in person
or by representative and shall be entitled to legal counsel. Additionally, the
applicant shall be entitled to introduce evidence on his or her behalf and
correct any identified errors or omissions in the registration statement. The
Administrator shall issue a decision within ten working days after the hearing.
   (E)   In the event the Administrator issues a decision adverse to the
applicant, the applicant may appeal to the Oldham Circuit Court within 30 days
after the Administrator’s denial.
   (F)   During the pendency of any certificate of registration issued pursuant
to this chapter, the registrant shall advise the Administrator within five
working days of any supplemental information required on the registration
statement. The registrant shall also notify the Administrator within five
working days of any changes in the information provided by the registrant on
the registration statement, which occur during the effective period of the
certificate of registration.
   (G)   A certificate of registration issued by the Administrator to any
person or organization is non-transferable and shall bear the name and address
of the person or organization conducting the solicitation, the number of the
certificate of registration, the date of issuance, the effective dates of the
certificate of registration, and the methods of solicitation the registrant has
proposed to use for all solicitations conducted pursuant to such certificate.
Each such certificate shall have prominently printed thereon the following:
“The issuance of this certificate of registration is not an endorsement by the
City Government or any of its departments, officers, or employees.” No
certificate of registration shall be valid for a period beyond December 31 of
the calendar year in which it was issued.
   (H)   A certificate of registration for a registrant may be renewed annually
upon payment of a $50 renewal fee. Registrants exempt under §
116.02(C) shall not be required to submit a payment. At the time of the
renewal, the registrant shall update its registration statement by providing
current and accurate information with respect to all items initially required
to be on the registration statement as delineated in the provisions of §
116.03.
(Ord. 13-2005, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 116.05 CLOSING STATEMENT TO BE FILED ON EXPIRATION OF CERTIFICATE
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   No later than 90 days after the expiration of the certificate of
registration, each registrant shall file a closing statement with the
Administrator. Except as provided to the contrary herein, the closing statement
shall be a financial statement that is either:
      (1)   On a form provided by the Administrator for this purpose and sworn
to before a notary public by the individual who signed the registration
statement on behalf of the registrant; or
      (2)   Audited by a certified public accountant.
   (B)   Whether submitted on the form provided by the Administrator or audited
by a certified public accountant, the closing statement shall indicate the
total contributions collected or pledged from the solicitation, the purpose or
purposes for which such contributions have been or will be disbursed by the
registrant, all costs incurred in and related to the solicitation showing the
date and payee of each expenditure, any incurred but unpaid expenses and any
other anticipated disbursements of collected or pledged contributions showing
the actual or projected date of each disbursement. If funds have been or will
be kept by the registrant for over 30 days before disbursement for any purpose,
the name of the financial institution, if any, with which such funds have been
or will be deposited and the account numbers, the requirement to show the total
contributions represented by any food or tangible property, other than money,
that has been collected or pledged may be satisfied by estimating the monetary
value of the food or other tangible property to the nearest multiple of $100.
   (C)   All registration statements and closing statements filed with the
Administrator shall be public records and shall be available to the public in
conformity with the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 et seq.
   (D)   The Administrator shall compile all closing financial statements from
all registrants registered pursuant to this chapter into booklet form to be
made available to the general public. The Administrator shall update this
information at least every six months.
(Ord. 13-2005, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 116.06 PROFESSIONAL SOLICITORS AND FUNDRAISING CONSULTANTS.
   (A)   Before engaging in the business of a professional solicitor or
fundraising consultant in the city, any person who intends to act as a
professional solicitor or fundraising consultant shall first comply with all
applicable provisions of the KRS 367.650 through 367.669, and shall register
with the Administrator by providing the following information:
      (1)   A photocopy of the letter of compliance from the Attorney General
of Kentucky with the assigned registration number indicated thereon;
      (2)   A registration form provided by the Administrator completed
pursuant to and consistent with applicable state law, and which contains
provision for the disclosure of any person, professional solicitor, fundraising
consultant or telemarketer with whom the registrant may or has subcontracted or
engaged in any manner directly or indirectly to solicit any charitable
contributions; and
      (3)   Proof of registration with the city if required to do so by law.
   (B)   Every registration statement shall be accompanied by a fee of $200 for
a professional solicitor, and a fee of $100 for a fundraising consultant. Such
fee will be non-refundable.
   (C)   Within ten working days of the receipt of the registration statement,
the Administrator shall either issue a certificate of registration upon
compliance of all requirements contained in division (A) of this section, or,
notify the registrant that the registration statement does not comply with this
chapter, and specifically identify what information has not been furnished that
is required before a certificate of registration can be issued. Within five
working days of receipt of the information requested, but previously not
furnished by the registrant, the Administrator shall issue the certificate of
registration provided all requirements of this chapter have been met. In the
event these requirements are not satisfied, the Administrator shall give
written notice to the registrant by certified mail, which notice states the
deficiency found in the registrant’s information, and that the registration has
been denied. In the event the registration is denied, the registrant may
request a hearing before the Administrator or his or her designee by filing
with the Administrator within five working days of receipt of the
Administrator’s denial a written request that the Administrator reconsider the
denial. The request shall specifically set forth the reasons for the request.
The Administrator shall conduct a hearing within 15 working days of the date of
receipt of the applicant’s request, unless the applicant requests an extension
and agrees, in writing, not to conduct any solicitation activity during the
period prior to the hearing. The applicant may be present in person or by
representative and shall be entitled to legal counsel. Additionally, the
applicant shall be entitled to introduce evidence on his or her behalf and
correct any identified errors or omissions in the registration statement. The
Administrator shall issue a decision within ten working days after the hearing.
In the event the Administrator issues a decision adverse to the registrant, the
registrant may appeal to the Oldham Circuit Court within 30 days after the
Administrator’s denial.
   (D)   A certificate of registration issued by the Administrator to any
person or organization is non-transferable and shall bear the name and address
of the person or organization registering as a professional solicitor or
fundraising consultant, and the termination date of the certificate of
registration shall be December 31 of the year in which it was issued. Each such
certificate shall have properly printed thereon the following: “The issuance of
this certificate of registration is not an endorsement by the City of La Grange
or any of its departments, officers or employees.”
   (E)   A certificate of registration for a professional solicitor or a
fundraising consultant may be renewed annually upon payment of a $200 renewal
fee for a professional solicitor or a $100 renewal fee for a fundraising
consultant. At the time of the renewal, the professional solicitor or
fundraising consultant shall update its registration statement by providing
current and accurate information with respect to all items initially required
to be on the registration statement by divisions (A) and (C) of this section.
(Ord. 13-2005, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 116.07 IDENTIFICATION OF REGISTRANT AND CHARITABLE PURPOSE.
   (A)   All persons, professional solicitors and fundraising consultants shall
exhibit evidence of their certificate of registration at the site of
solicitation. The charity for which the proceeds of the public solicitation
will be used shall be legibly posted on any receptacle used for such purpose at
the site of solicitation.
   (B)   Solicitations, which are conducted on a highway, shall conform to all
of the provisions of §
116.09(O).
(Ord. 13-2005, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 116.08 REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR REFUSAL TO RENEW ANY REGISTRATION; NOTICE OF
HEARING.
   (A)   The Administrator shall require such person to show cause why his or
her registration should not be suspended, revoked or not renewed, if the
Administrator determines that any registrant:
      (1)   Has violated any applicable provision of KRS 367.650 through
367.669 or any provision of §§
116.01 through
116.98 of this chapter;
      (2)   Has refused or failed, after notice, to produce any records or
disclose any information required pursuant to KRS 367.650 through 367.669 or
any provision of §§
116.01 through
116.98 of this chapter;
      (3)   Has made a material false statement in an application, statement or
report required to be filed under KRS 367.650 through 367.669 or any provision
of §§
116.01 through
116.98 of this chapter; or
      (4)   Has been convicted of any crime involving, fraud or theft by
deception in the last five years.
   (B)   The Administrator shall send written notice of the show cause hearing
by certified mail return receipt requested, and shall state the grounds for the
hearing as well as the time and date of the hearing.
   (C)   The Administrative hearing shall be held within 15 working days of the
date of the notice. Failure or refusal to accept the notice may not be grounds
for delaying or otherwise challenging the hearing.
   (D)   The Administrator shall issue a decision within ten working days of
the completion of the hearing. Should the decision be adverse to the
registrant, the registrant shall have 30 days to appeal the Administrator’s
decision to the Oldham Circuit Court. During that time period, the registrant
is prohibited from soliciting unless otherwise ordered by the Oldham Circuit
Court.
(Ord. 13-2005, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 116.09 UNLAWFUL SOLICITATION ACTIVITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, professional solicitor or
fundraising consultant, directly or through an agent or employee, to solicit
contributions for charitable purposes within the city unless a certificate of
registration has been obtained from the Administrator.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any individual, as the agent or employee of
another, to solicit contributions for charitable purposes in the city unless
his or her principal or employer has received a certificate of registration.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or through an agent or
employee, to solicit contributions for charitable purposes within the city
after the expiration of any certificate of registration.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person who shall solicit contributions
for charitable purposes in the city to represent, in connection with such
solicitation, that the issuance of a certificate of registration by the city
government constitutes an endorsement or approval of the purposes of such
solicitation by the city or any department, officer or employee thereof.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person issued a certificate of
registration to solicit contributions for charitable purposes to fail to file
any financial statement that this chapter requires to be filed with the
Administrator.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or through an agent or
employee, to act as a professional solicitor of fundraising consultant within
the city unless such person shall have first obtained the certificate of
registration from the Administrator.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any individual, as the agent or employee of
another, to act as a solicitor for a professional solicitor or fundraising
consultant in the city unless his or her principal or employer has received a
certificate of registration.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or through an agent or
employee, to act as a professional solicitor or fundraising consultant within
the city after the expiration of any unrenewed certificate of registration.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person acting as a professional solicitor
or fundraising consultant in the city to represent, in connection with any
solicitation activity, that the issuance of a certificate of registration by
the city government constitutes an endorsement or approval of the purposes of
such solicitation by the city or any department, officer or employee thereof.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any professional solicitor or fundraising
consultant issued a certificate of registration hereunder to fail to file with
the Administrator the financial statement required by this chapter.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person, professional solicitor or
fundraising consultant to use the word “police”, “law enforcement”,
“firefighters”, “firemen”, “sheriffs”, “constables” or “veterans”, for the
purpose of soliciting contributions, unless authorized to do so by an
established organization representing such specific groups or entities. Such
proof of said authorization shall be filed with said application for
registration.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful for any person, professional solicitor or
fundraising consultant to represent or lead anyone in any manner to believe
that a solicitation is for or on behalf of a charitable organization; or
utilizing any emblem, device or printed matter belonging to or associated with
a charitable organization; or otherwise representing that any part of the
contributions received will be donated to a charitable organization without
first being authorized in writing to do so by the charitable organization.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful for any person, professional solicitor or
fundraising consultant to utilize a name, symbol or statement so closely
related or similar to that used by another charitable organization, public
official, or public agency that its use would tend to confuse or mislead a
solicited person.
   (N)   It shall be unlawful for any person, professional solicitor or
fundraising consultant to commingle their personal funds with contributions
collected from a charitable solicitation. Separate books, records and bank
accounts shall be kept by persons, professional solicitors or fundraising
consultants regarding charitable solicitation activity. In addition, daily
totals shall be kept showing the aggregate amount of contributions collected
and/or received by all persons, professional solicitors and/or fundraising
consultants engaged in solicitation activity on behalf of a person or
charitable or civic organization.
   (O)   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether individually or as the
agent or employee of another, or as a volunteer, to stand on a highway for the
purpose of soliciting contributions unless such person is at least 18 years of
age and otherwise complies with the provisions of KRS 189.570(21). All such
individuals at all times when participating in such activity must:
      (1)   Carry with them a government-issued identification card which
verifies their age;
      (2)   Wear a badge or sticker, which prominently displays the name of the
organization for whom the solicitation is being conducted, and the
organization’s license number as issued by the Administrator;
      (3)   Utilize safety equipment including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Wearing bright orange or yellow safety vests;
         (b)   Placing orange cones, minimum height of 30 inches, six cones per
lane being worked, at a minimum of ten feet apart; and
         (c)   Displaying a legible sign with dimensions of at least two feet
by three feet, on which is printed the name of the organization, and which is
visible from each direction of the highway upon which the solicitation is being
conducted.
      (4)   Withdraw from an intersection to a place of safety on a median or
on the side of a highway before the light turns green in the direction they are
working;
      (5)   Limit solicitation activity to one person for each lane of traffic;
      (6)   Refrain from yelling at or otherwise distracting motorists, and
from touching any vehicle; and
      (7)   Not conduct any solicitation activity before sunrise or after
sunset, as published daily in The Courier-Journal, or in inclement weather
during which, in the judgment of any law enforcement officer, conducting
solicitation activity would constitute a hazard to individuals conducting
solicitation activity or to motorists.
   (P)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed organization to engage in
solicitation activity on a highway within the city for more that nine days in
any calendar year.
   (Q)   It shall be unlawful to violate any other provision of this chapter
not specifically enumerated in this section.
(Ord. 13-2005, passed 11-7-2005) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.10 EXISTING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All registrations issued under the authority of any ordinance or
regulation of the former city or Oldham County shall be valid and remain in
full force and effect until their expiration dates but charitable solicitations
and professional solicitor or fundraising consultant activities pursuant to
such registrations, including post-solicitation reporting requirements, shall
be governed by this chapter.
   (B)   On the anniversary date of any registration issued under the authority
of any ordinance or regulation of the city or Oldham County, each such
registrant who wishes to renew or continue its charitable solicitation or
professional solicitor or fundraising consultant activities in Oldham County
shall register with the Administrator in the manner required by this chapter
and, unless exempt, pay the registration fee.
(Ord. 13-2005, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 116.11 FINALITY OF ADMINISTRATOR’S ACTIONS.
   Any action or determination made by the Administrator pursuant to any
provision of this chapter shall be deemed final and conclusive as to the issues
addressed by such action or determination; provided, however, that nothing
contained herein shall prevent any person from exercising any right, or seeking
any remedy, to which said person is entitled, nor from filing any action with
any other agency or court of appropriate jurisdiction.
(Ord. 13-2005, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 116.12 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter as now or later amended or its application
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Ord. 13-2005, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 116.98 CIVIL REMEDIES.
   The Administrator shall have authority to enforce the provisions of this
chapter in the name of the city government by filing any proper legal or
equitable action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 13-2005, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 117: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
Section
   
117.01   Adoption of State Alcoholic Beverage Control Law
   
117.02   Published notice of application
   
117.03   Delinquent taxes; license withheld
   
117.04   Forfeitures
   
117.05   Compliance with other ordinances and regulations
   
117.06   Conditions governing licenses
   
117.07   Issuance of license; receipt of fees
   
117.08   Revocation or suspension of license
   
117.09   Transfer of license or business
   
117.10   Liquor; hours of sale and distribution
   
117.11   Minors; prohibitions governing
   
117.12   Display of printed warning; advertising, and other signage
   
117.13   Treating prohibited; sampling permitted
   
117.14   Premises; approval of by Health Department and fire prevention
   
117.15   Books and records
   
117.16   Spirits outside locked department; discovery of
   
117.17   Operation without a license
   
117.18   Licensee to notify employee that sales of alcohol to minors
prohibited; acknowledgment
   
117.19   Licensee required to notify employee that proof of age required
   
117.20   Conditions, prohibitions, restrictions and enforcement
   
117.21   Failure to pay fines
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 ADOPTION OF STATE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL LAW.
   (A)   Generally. The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Laws and
Administrative Regulations of the Commonwealth (KRS Chapters 241, 243 and 244),
and all amendments and supplements thereto, are adopted in full, as far as
applicable, as a portion of this chapter except as otherwise lawfully provided
herein. The city’s Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) Administrator shall
administer all alcoholic beverage control ordinances and regulations of the
city and all statutes of the Commonwealth relating to the sale of alcohol and
the regulations of the Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control Board. The
definitions of the words used throughout this chapter, unless the context
requires otherwise, shall have the same meaning as those set out in Kentucky
Alcoholic Beverage Control law (KRS Chapters 241, 242, 243 and 244) of the
Commonwealth and all amendments and supplements thereto.
   (B)   City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator; duties and powers.
      (1)   The duties of the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
(hereinafter referred to as the City ABC Administrator) are hereby assigned to
the Chief of Police.
      (2)   The compensation for the office of City ABC Administrator, if any,
together with the salaries of any other personnel assisting the City ABC
Administrator shall be fixed from time to time by the City Council.
      (3)   The functions of the City ABC Administrator shall be the same with
respect to city licenses and regulations as the function of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board of the Commonwealth (hereinafter referred to as the ABC
Board) with respect to state licenses and regulations for the sale of alcoholic
beverages, except that no amendment to these regulations proposed by the City
ABC Administrator may be less stringent than the statutes relating to alcoholic
beverage control, or than regulations of the ABC Board. No regulation of the
City ABC Administrator shall become effective until it has first been
appropriately approved by the City Council.
      (4)   No person shall be a City ABC Administrator, an investigator or an
employee of the city under the supervision of the City ABC Administrator, who
would be disqualified to be a member of the ABC Board under KRS 241.100.
      (5)   The City ABC Administrator shall have all authority as authorized
under KRS Chapters 241 through 244.
      (6)   Should the City ABC Administrator at any time have reasonable
grounds to believe that any applicant, licensee, employee of a licensee, or any
stockholder, agent or employee of a licensed corporation, has a criminal
record, he or she shall have the authority to require such person to appear in
person at the City Police Department for the purpose of having his or her
fingerprints taken.
      (7)   The City ABC Administrator shall, before entering upon his or her
duties as such, take the oath as prescribed in § 228 of the Constitution.
      (8)   Appeals from the orders of the City ABC Administrator may be taken
to the State ABC Board by filing with the Board within 30 days a certified copy
of the orders of the City ABC Administrator. Matters at issue shall be heard by
the ABC Board as upon an original proceeding. Appeals from the orders of the
City ABC Administrator shall be governed by KRS Chapter 13B.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 117.02 PUBLISHED NOTICE OF APPLICATION.
   The City ABC Administrator shall not approve any application for an original
license to sell alcoholic beverages until the applicant has caused to be
published a concise advertisement in accordance with the provisions of KRS
243.360.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 117.03 DELINQUENT TAXES; LICENSE WITHHELD.
   No license to sell alcoholic beverages shall be granted to any person who is
delinquent in the payment of any taxes due to the city at the time of issuing
the license. Nor shall any license be granted to sell on any premises or
property, owned and occupied by the licensee, on which there are any delinquent
taxes or liens due to the city. Where the property or premises on which a
license to sell is sought, is rented or occupied by the applicant for a license
but is owned by another, no license shall be granted if the taxes or liens of
the city due on the property or premises have not been paid. In such cases, the
City ABC Administrator may not issue a license to sell alcohol until he or she
has received from the applicant a written statement from the city which
indicates that the applicant for the license and the owner of the property or
premises on which the license is sought have paid in full all unpaid and
delinquent taxes or liens referred to above which were owed to the city.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 117.04 FORFEITURES.
   If any license issued under this chapter is revoked or cancelled for any
reason by the City ABC Administrator, the licensee shall forfeit any and all
claims, which the licensee might otherwise have had to any portion of the
license fee paid by the licensee on the issuing of the license.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 117.05 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS.
   No license shall be issued or renewed to any person for selling at retail or
wholesale any alcoholic beverages at any premises or location where such
business or associated activities are prohibited under state law, or are in
violation or conflict with any regulation, including, but not limited to,
signs, fire prevention and/or the zoning code and regulations of the city and
any ordinance supplementary or amendatory to it, and any license issued in
violation of this section shall be void. However, any person who held a city
ABC license for the sale of alcohol, and actually carried on thereunder this
business (during or within the last month of the preceding license period)
shall be granted a similar license by the City ABC Administrator for the same
business at the same premises or location, until its prior stated expiration
date, at no additional cost.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 117.06 CONDITIONS GOVERNING LICENSES.
   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be granted subject to the
following conditions, and all other conditions of other ordinances and
regulations of the city applicable thereto.
   (A)   Each licensed premises shall at all times be conducted in an orderly
manner and no disorderly, riotous or indecent conduct shall be allowed at any
time on any licensed premises and no nuisance suffered, permitted or maintained
thereon.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this chapter to sell, keep
or permit to be sold, or kept on the licensed premises any controlled
substances as defined in KRS Chapter 218A, except at a licensed pharmacy. In
addition to other penalties set out in this chapter for the violation of this
section the City ABC Administrator shall also have the authority to revoke the
license issued to the premises.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or any employee of any
licensee, to permit or allow acts of prostitution, gambling or the possession
of any gambling device on the licensed premises, unless the gambling activity
is licensed by the Kentucky Lottery, the Kentucky Racing Commission for pari-
mutuel betting or the Office of Charitable Gaming.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or employee of any licensee, to
allow the premises to become overcrowded or violate any ordinance or regulation
of the Fire Prevention or Fire Marshal offices.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.07 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; RECEIPT OF FEES.
   (A)   All licenses permitted under state law for a city with a population of
the fourth class shall be allowed and all licenses granted under this chapter
shall be approved and issued by the City ABC Administrator. All license fees
from licenses issued under this chapter shall be collected by the City ABC
Administrator.
   (B)   All licenses approved by the City ABC Administrator and issued by the
city shall begin on July 1 of any year and shall expire on June 30 of the
following year.
   (C)   All fees that are imposed by KRS 243.030 and 243.040 are to be paid to
the Kentucky ABC. In addition to those fees paid to the Kentucky ABC, any
licensee engaged in the sale, possession or distribution of spirituous, vinous
or malt liquors, or operating a brew-on-premises establishment, shall pay the
following fees to the City ABC Administrator, which are authorized under KRS
243.070, and the fees shall be paid when application for a license is made.
   (D)   Fees.
Distilled spirit licenses As set forth in KRS 243.030
Distilled spirit licenses                                    As set forth in KRS
                                                             243.030
Rectifier’s license - class A, per annum                   $2,580
Rectifier’s license - class B, per annum                   $825
Brewer’s license, per annum                                $2,580
Microbrewery license, per annum                              $520
Wholesaler’s distilled spirit and wine license, per annum  $2,060
Distributor’s license, per annum                           $520
Quota retail package license, per annum                      $570
Quota retail drink license, per annum                        $620
Special temporary license, per event                         $50
Special temporary auction license, per event                 $100
Limited restaurant license, per annum                        $780
Limited golf course license, per annum                       $720
Qualified historic site license, per annum                   $1,030
Extended hours supplemental license, per annum               $2,060
NQ-1 retail drink license (nonquota), per annum              $4,120
NQ-2 retail drink license (nonquota), per annum              $830
NQ-3 retail drink license (nonquota), per annum              $310
NQ-4 retail malt beverage drink license (nonquota), per      $210
annum
Secondary NQ malt beverage “retail package” license, per $50**
annum
Secondary NQ-4 malt beverage “retail drink” license, per $50**
annum
Supplemental bar license - fee for first 5, no additional
charge after 5
   NQ-2 retail drink                                      $830
   Limited restaurant                                     $780
   Limited golf course                                    $720
   Quota retail drink                                     $620
   NQ-3 retail drink                                      $310
** The qualifying holder of either type of retail malt beverage (beer) licenses
(either the NQ-4 retail malt beverage drink or the NQ- retail malt beverage
package license) may add the second license for a reduced licensing fee of $50
per annum.
A caterer’s license may be issued as a supplementary license to a caterer that
holds a quota retail package license, a quota retail drink license, an NQ1
license, an NQ2 license, or a limited restaurant license. The caterer’s license
may be issued as a primary license to a caterer in any wet territory or in any
moist territory under KRS 242.1244 for the premises that serves as the caterer’s
commissary and designated banquet hall. No primary caterer’s license shall be
issued to a premises that operates as a restaurant. The alcoholic beverage stock
of the caterer shall be kept under lock and key at the licensed premises during
the time that the alcoholic beverages are not being used in conjunction with a
catered function. All caterer’s licensees shall comply with KRS 243.033.
Caterer’s license (even if supplementary), per annum       $830
Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum               $520
 
      (1)   * Any licenses issued after January 1 of any year shall be assessed
a fee equal to one-half of the annual fee for the remainder of the license
period.
      (2)   In addition to the above-mentioned fees, a regulatory license fee
on gross receipts shall be imposed as follows.
         (a)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075, there is hereby imposed a regulatory
license fee on the gross receipts of sale of alcoholic beverages of each
license issued by the City ABC Administrator. The regulatory license fee shall
be 5% of gross sales of all alcoholic beverages sold by the drink. In the case
of retail sales of package distilled spirits and wine, the regulatory license
fee shall be 5% of gross sales. The regulatory license fee shall be 5% on gross
retail sales of package malt beverages. These fees shall be paid quarterly. For
year 2013—2014 and thereafter, the city shall adopt at the budget adoption for
each subsequent fiscal year, such annual rate for the regulatory license fee as
shall be reasonably estimated to ensure full reimbursement to the city for the
cost of any additional policing, regulatory, or administrative expense related
to the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city. Should the city fail to address
the regulatory license fee in any budget, then the regulatory license fee shall
remain at the level at which it was last fixed until such time as the city
shall adjust the fee.
         (b)   Payment of such regulatory fee shall be remitted to the City ABC
Administrator, and shall be held in a separate account maintained for the
purpose of fully reimbursing the city for the estimated cost of any additional
policing, regulatory or administrative expense related to the sale of alcoholic
beverages in the city. The regulatory license fee shall be in addition to any
other taxes, fees or licenses permitted by law, except that a credit against a
regulatory license fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount equal to any
license fee imposed by the city pursuant to KRS 243.070. Payment of the
regulatory license fee shall accompany the tax return approved for such use by
the city. The return and payment are due no later than by the end of the month
immediately following each calendar quarter (July 1 to September 30; October 1
to December 31; January 1 to March 31; April 1 to June 30).
         (c)   Failure to pay such quarterly remittance within ten days of the
due date constitutes a violation and subjects the licensee to suspension or
revocation. A civil action may be filed by the city to collect the unpaid fee,
penalties and interest. If such a civil action is filed, the licensee shall be
responsible for the expense of attorney fees and the costs associated with
prosecuting the civil action.
         (d)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay quarterly
remittance by the due date shall be 5% of the tax for each 90 days or fraction
thereof. The total late filing penalty shall not exceed 25% of the tax;
provided, however, that in no case shall the penalty be less than $10.
         (e)   Interest at the rate of 8% per annum shall apply to any late
payments.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012; Ord. 13-2012, passed 11-5-2012; Ord. 14-2012,
passed 1-7-2013; Ord. 3-2013, passed 3-4-2013; Ord. 11-2013, passed 7-1-2013;
Ord. 21-2013, passed 11-4-2013; Ord. 3-2015, passed 6-1-2015; Ord. 9-2017,
passed 9-5-2017; Ord. 13-2018, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 117.08 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or any amendment
thereof, by a duly authorized agent or employee of a licensee shall constitute
a violation by the licensee. It shall be the duty of the City ABC Administrator
to make a written report of any violation of this chapter or any amendment
thereof, or of any rules or regulations of the City ABC Administrator, observed
by any member of the Police Department of the city. Members of the Police
Department of the city shall report any observed violation of this chapter or
any amendment thereof, or of any rules or regulations of the City ABC
Administrator, to the City ABC Administrator without undue delay. Whenever any
licensee shall violate any provision of this chapter or any ordinance relating
to the subject of alcoholic beverage control or any of the rules or regulations
of the City ABC Administrator, or any of the provisions of the alcoholic
beverage control laws of the Commonwealth, or any amendments or supplements
thereto, or any of the rules and regulations adopted by the Kentucky State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, or any acts of Congress, or rule or
regulation of any federal board, agency or commission relative to the
regulation and taxation of alcoholic beverages, proceedings for the revocation
of the license shall be instituted in the manner and under the procedure
established by the Kentucky State Alcoholic Beverage Control Law.
   (B)   For a violation of any section of this chapter or any amendment
thereof or of any rule or regulation of the City ABC Administrator, or of any
rule or regulation of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, or any acts
of Congress or rule or regulation of any federal board, agency or commission
relative to the regulation and taxation of alcoholic beverages, or on
conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction for any such violation, the
City ABC Administrator is authorized and empowered to order the revocation or
suspension of any license issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 117.09 TRANSFER OF LICENSE OR BUSINESS.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned by the
holder, except as provided in the alcoholic beverage control laws of the
Commonwealth, KRS 243.630 and per approval of the City ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.10 LIQUOR; HOURS OF SALE AND DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   The licensee shall be permitted to sell or dispense distilled spirits,
wine and/or malt beverages by the drink Monday through Saturday between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. and midnight.
   (B)   Alcohol may be sold or dispensed on Sundays, between the hours of noon
and 11:00 p.m.
   (C)   The licensee shall provide a separate locked department or covered,
making it visually inaccessible in which all stocks of distilled spirits and
wine are kept during these hours when sales are prohibited. See KRS 244.290.
   (D)   All delivery of alcoholic beverages in the city shall be made during
normal business hours, Monday through Saturday.
   (E)   The licensee may sell and dispense distilled spirits and wine on New
Year’s Eve until 2:00 a.m. on January 1, regardless of the day of the week on
which New Year’s Eve occurs, provided that the appropriate licenses have been
obtained from both the city and the State ABC Board (including, but not limited
to, an extended hours license). If New Year’s Eve falls on a Sunday, alcoholic
beverages may be sold and dispensed commencing at noon; if New Year’s Day falls
on a Sunday, then distilled spirits and wine may be sold and dispensed until 2:
00 a.m. on January 1; provided, however, that in either instance, the
appropriate licenses for Sunday sales and for extended hours sales has been
obtained from both the city and the state’s ABC Board.
   (F)   The distribution and sales by wholesale and delivery of any alcoholic
beverages may occur only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight,
Monday through Saturday. No person shall distribute or sell by wholesale any
such beverages at any time on Sunday.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012; Ord. 14-2012, passed 1-7-2013; Ord. 1-2016,
passed 3-7-2016) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.11 MINORS; PROHIBITIONS GOVERNING.
   The provisions of KRS Chapter 244 and Title 804 KAR involving prohibitions
governing minors shall apply to licensees and licensed premises within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 117.12 DISPLAY OF PRINTED WARNING; ADVERTISING, AND OTHER SIGNAGE.
   (A)   All signage shall be in compliance with any and all other existing
rules and regulations of the city and the Oldham County Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   (B)   Signage which refers directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages
will be limited to one sign not more than two square feet that must be
displayed from the inside of the window. No additional signs, banners, posters
or other type of advertising which refers either directly or indirectly to
alcoholic beverages shall be visible from the exterior of any premises licensed
for the sale of alcoholic beverages, except that reference to such may be
included in the name of the business. This restriction shall not prevent any
licensee from placing in the windows of the licensed premises business cards
not larger than three inches by two inches in size, setting forth the price at
which he or she offers alcoholic beverages for sale.
   (C)   No flashing lights shall be used to illuminate the exterior of any
premises licensed under this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee to distribute or cause to be
distributed any handbills, circulars or cards as a medium of advertising
alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with KRS 244.130.
   (F)   The provisions of KRS 244.083 requiring the display of printed
warnings shall apply to licensees and licensed premises within the jurisdiction
of the city.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012; Ord. 14-2012, passed 1-7-2013) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.13 TREATING PROHIBITED; SAMPLING PERMITTED.
   The provisions of KRS 244.050 shall apply to licensees and licensed premises
within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 117.14 PREMISES; APPROVAL OF BY HEALTH DEPARTMENT AND FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   Generally. Upon the initial application for an alcoholic beverage
license, the City ABC Administrator shall not grant the license under this
chapter to any applicant until the applicant and the applicant’s place of
business have been approved by the County Board of Health and the city’s Fire
and Rescue Department. Upon renewal of an alcoholic beverage license, the
requirement of approval by the Board of Health and Fire and Rescue Department
before issuance will be waived if the applicant’s business has been approved by
the Board of Health and Fire and Rescue Department during the prior licensing
period.
   (B)   Patio and outdoor sales.
      (1)   Patio and outdoor sales of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted
only on premises licensed for sales of alcoholic beverages by the drink.
         (a)   No licensee shall offer alcoholic beverages for sale in a patio
or outdoor area of the licensee’s premises except in a clearly defined patio or
outdoor area that is enclosed by a fence or other screening, not less than four
feet in height. All outdoor areas and screening shall be subject to the
approval of the City ABC Administrator. An exception to this restriction may be
granted for seasonal sidewalk cafés, upon application to and authorization from
the ABC City Administrator. The permission to operate a sidewalk café shall be
governed by the provisions of this chapter and shall be subject to the
regulation of local zoning authorities as well as code enforcement and public
safety officers.
         (b)   No licensee shall offer patio or outdoor sales of alcoholic
beverages unless the patio or outdoor area and fencing or screening area shall
have been approved in advance by the ABC Administrator.
         (c)   Unless exempted by the following provisions of this chapter, and
by permission of the City ABC Administrator, patio areas must comply with the
screening requirements of this chapter. Sidewalk café seating areas must comply
with this chapter and with local zoning laws and other public safety
requirements noted in this chapter, or in other local ordinances, statutes or
regulations.
      (2)   Exception to screening requirement for outdoor sales and service of
alcoholic beverages, specifically, permitted sidewalk cafés in the city’s
downtown business area:
         (a)   Licensees in the downtown business district/area may request an
exception from the outdoor screening of patio provision in order to permit
seasonal sidewalk cafés that serve food and alcoholic beverages as an adjunct
to the primary and adjacent licensed premises. In the case of permitted
sidewalk cafés, they shall be deemed part of the licensed premises; and
         (b)   Any food establishment which operates a restaurant and is
licensed under this chapter and the provisions of the State ABC Code, may, upon
application to the City ABC Administrator, ask permission to expand the
operation of that restaurant onto a part, and only that part, of the public
sidewalk which immediately adjoins the licensed premises (hereinafter referred
to as “sidewalk café”). Licensees who do not serve food shall not be eligible
to apply for a sidewalk café permit.
      (3)   Conditions for sidewalk café permit: the issuance of a permit shall
be subject to the following conditions and restrictions.
         (a)   No sidewalk café shall be permitted in any portion of the public
sidewalk where normal pedestrian traffic flow is obstructed. A minimum
clearance width of 36 inches must be maintained on the public sidewalk at all
times. The sidewalk café shall not be permitted in any manner to obstruct the
entrance/exit to the restaurant.
         (b)   No tables, chairs or any other furnishings, except plant tubs,
shall be placed in the area used for the sidewalk café during any period when
the sidewalk café is not open and being operated. Tables, chairs and other
portable appurtenances shall be confined to the area named or shown on the
approved permit. While such café is in operation, all tables and chairs shall
be kept in a clean, sanitary condition.
         (c)   The use of a portion of the public sidewalk as a sidewalk café
shall not be an exclusive use. All public improvements, including, but not
limited to, trees, light poles, traffic signals, pull boxes or manholes or any
public-initiated maintenance procedures, shall take precedence over said use of
the public sidewalk at all times. Further, the city may require the licensee to
enter into an agreement to use the public sidewalk in exchange for monetary
consideration.
         (d)   The licensee shall, in addition to all other requirements of
law, take reasonable steps to ensure that alcoholic beverages are consumed only
by patrons of the establishment who are of age, and not by passersby or persons
who are not of age or who are obviously or apparently intoxicated.
         (e)   No disposable cups or drinking vessels may be used and the
licensee shall not permit any alcoholic beverages to be taken off premises by
patrons, customers or guests.
         (f)   At no time shall any music originating from any part of the
premises create a nuisance.
         (g)   The licensee must at all times comply with all federal, state
and local laws regarding the sale, service and consumption of alcohol and the
operation of the premises.
         (h)   The permit for sidewalk café may not be assigned or transferred.
      (4)   Other requirements applicable to sidewalk cafés: no sidewalk café
permit shall be effective unless the licensee has filed with the ABC
Administrator evidence of insurance, insuring the licensee against liability
imposed by law arising out of the ownership, maintenance or operation of such
sidewalk café. The insurance shall be in an amount of coverage that is a
minimum of $500,000 per person for bodily injury, and a minimum of $1,000,000
per occurrence for property damage. The city shall be named an additional
insured in the policy required. Such insurance policy shall further provide
expressly that it may not be canceled except upon ten days’ written notice
filed with the ABC Administrator and the City Attorney.
   (C)   Seating. Only permanent seating (excluding bar-type stools, patio
seating or temporary chairs available as needed) satisfies the seating
thresholds that are set by state law.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.15 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   The provisions of KRS 244.150 and 804 KAR 4:100 requiring the retention of
books and records shall apply to licensees and licensed premises within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 117.16 SPIRITS OUTSIDE LOCKED DEPARTMENT; DISCOVERY OF.
   The provisions of KRS Chapter 244 and KAR Title 804, Chapter 7, pertaining
to the discovery of spirits outside a locked department shall apply to
licensees and licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 117.17 OPERATION WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   The provisions of KRS 243.020 pertaining to licensing shall apply to
licensees and licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 117.18 LICENSEE TO NOTIFY EMPLOYEE THAT SALES OF ALCOHOL TO MINORS
PROHIBITED; ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
   (A)   Every licensee selling alcoholic beverages by retail sales shall
notify each individual employed in retail sales that the sale of alcoholic
beverages to any person under the age of 21 years is prohibited.
   (B)   A notice to employees shall be provided before the employee commences
work as a retail sales clerk. The employee shall signify receipt of the notice
required by this section by signing a form that states as follows: “I
understand that under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky it is illegal to
sell alcoholic beverages to persons under the age of 21 years.”
   (C)   The licensee shall maintain the signed acknowledgment required in
division (B) of this section in a place and manner so as to be easily
accessible to any police officer of the city or the City ABC Administrator or
his or her employees conducting an inspection of the retail outlet for purposes
of monitoring compliance in limiting the sale or distribution of alcoholic
beverages to persons under the age of 21 years.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 117.19 LICENSEE REQUIRED TO NOTIFY EMPLOYEE THAT PROOF OF AGE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every licensee selling alcoholic beverages by retail sales shall
notify each employee employed in retail sales that proof of ages is required
from a prospective buyer if it is reasonable to believe that the prospective
buyer is under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   The following unaltered written instruments are the only acceptable
types of identification:
      (1)   An unexpired driver’s license issued by any state, provided such
license contains a picture of the person;
      (2)   An official identification card issued by any state, provided such
identification includes a picture of the person;
      (3)   A United States Armed Forces identification card, provided such
identification includes a picture of the person; or
      (4)   An unexpired passport issued by a government and which contains a
picture of the person and date of birth.
   (C)   Every licensee selling alcoholic beverages by retail sales shall
require all employees who will sell alcoholic beverages to a buyer to complete
STAR (Server Training in Alcoholic Regulations). All persons who are required
to complete the STAR training shall complete that training within 60 days of
the date on which the person first becomes subject to the training requirement.
All persons completing the training required by this section shall be re-
certified in responsible beverage service training from a program approved by
the city not less than once every three years thereafter. The licensee shall be
responsible for compliance with the employee STAR training requirements and
shall maintain for inspection by the City ABC Administrator a record or file on
each employee that shall contain the pertinent training information.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.20 CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS, RESTRICTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee licensed under this chapter to
have or maintain any radio receiving apparatus on such premises which is
intentionally adjusted so as to receive police messages broadcast from any law
enforcement agency in the county as it is now or may hereafter be operated. In
addition to other penalties provided for the violation of this section, the
City ABC Administrator, or his or her designated investigator, shall have the
authority to confiscate any and all such radio receiving apparatus.
   (B)   The licensee shall be responsible for maintaining security on his or
her premises including providing adequate outside lighting to permit customers
to utilize the parking area and to promote the safety, health and welfare of
the general public utilizing the licensed premises. Security standards are
further necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around the licensed
premises.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the licensee under this chapter who sells
alcoholic beverages of any kind, to give away or offer to give away anything
tangible of value as a premium or prize, or for any other purpose in direct
connection with the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   (D)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
person to become drunk or intoxicated on the premises, nor shall any licensee
permit any drunk or intoxicated person to remain on the licensed premises.
   (E)   The licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place a sign at
least eight inches by 11 inches in 30 point or larger type which states as
follows:
 
Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) are subject to a fine of up to one
hundred dollars ($100.00) if they:
   1.   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages.
   2.   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to purchase
alcoholic beverages.
   3.   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages.
 
   (F)   (1)   The licensee, before commencing any business for which a license
has been issued, shall post and display the license at all times in a
conspicuous place in the room or principal room where the business is carried
on so that all persons visiting the place may readily see the license.
      (2)   The licensee shall not at any time post the license on premises
other than the licensed premises or upon premises where traffic in alcoholic
beverages is being carried on by any person other than the licensee, or
knowingly deface, destroy or alter the license in any respect.
   (G)   (1)   The licensee shall post in a prominent place easily seen by
patrons a printed sign at least 11 inches by 14 inches in size, with letters at
least one inch high, supplied by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission, and
with gender-neutral language, which shall warn that drinking alcoholic
beverages prior to conception or during pregnancy can cause birth defects.
      (2)   A person who violates the requirement of division (G)(1) of this
section shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $50. See
KRS 243.895.
   (H)   Any off-premises signage advertising the sale of alcoholic beverages
is prohibited.
   (I)   No wholesaler or distributor shall sell any alcoholic beverages to any
person in the city for any consideration except under the usual credit or cash
terms of the wholesaler or distributor at or before the time of delivery.
Retail sales of liquor and wine may be sold for cash, check, gift card or
nationally recognized bank credit card. A licensee, his or her employees,
servants or agents may not extend personal credit to the public. Retail sales
of beer is not included in this restriction. See KRS 244.300.
   (J)   (1)   No licensee shall knowingly employ in connection with his or her
business any person who:
         (a)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two years;
         (b)   Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly
or indirectly attributable to the use of intoxicating liquors within the last
two years;
         (c)   Is under the age of 20 years who will be serving alcoholic
beverages or who will be having any contact whatsoever with the sale of alcohol
as defined under state statute; and
         (d)   Within two years prior to the date of his or her employment has
had any city license under this chapter revoked for cause.
      (2)   Violations of this division (J) shall subject the licensee, the
employer and the employee to penalties provided in this chapter and shall be
cause for revocation of license.
   (K)   Enforcement.
      (1)   City police officers and the City ABC Administrator are authorized
to enforce this chapter for alleged violations.
      (2)   Investigation and inspection of premises: the City ABC
Administrator and any investigator acting under the authority of the City ABC
Administrator, shall have the full police powers of peace officers within the
boundaries of the city. They, as well as any authorized law enforcement
officer, may inspect any premises where alcoholic or malt beverages are
manufactured, sold, stored or otherwise trafficked without first obtaining a
search warrant.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.21 FAILURE TO PAY FINES.
   The failure of any person or entity to pay any fine imposed upon such person
or entity by the City ABC Administrator or hearing officer for violations of
this chapter within 30 days of its imposition shall be grounds for the issuance
of an order by the City ABC Administrator revoking the eligibility for
employment of that person by licensees, or revoking the license issued by the
City ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalties for violations of this chapter that pertain to alcoholic
beverage laws that are set forth in KRS Chapters 241 through 244 shall be the
same as provided by such chapters. If the offender is a corporation, joint
stock company, association or fiduciary, the principal officer or officers
responsible for the violation may be imprisoned.
   (B)   Any person under the age of 18 years who violates any provisions of
this chapter shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedure prescribed by
statute for minors charged with the commission of a public offense.
   (C)   Any penalty and/or fines imposed under divisions (A) and/or (B) of
this section shall be in addition to and independent of any action which may be
taken by the City Alcoholic Beverage Administrator, in accordance with the
provisions of the state alcoholic beverage control laws and administrative
rules and regulations.
   (D)   In addition to any criminal penalties that may be prescribed, any
person or entity that violates the provisions of this chapter shall appear
before the City ABC Administrator or the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Board
hearing officer for a civil hearing, and shall subject to a civil penalty of
not less than $200 and not more than $500 for each violation if convicted, if a
penalty is not otherwise established in this chapter. Any imposed fine shall be
delivered to the City Clerk to be deposited in the appropriate designated
account within ten days after the date that a written decision of the City ABC
Administrator is issued in which the fine is assessed. An appeal of the written
decision of the City ABC Administrator does not stay the requirement to deliver
the fine to the City Clerk. This section shall not apply to obligations imposed
upon the City ABC Administrator or his or her employees under those sections.
Notice of hearings shall be provided by delivering the same by U.S. mail to the
address that was provided by the licensee with the application for the license,
unless a change of address is submitted to the City Administrator subsequent to
the submission of the application for license. Notice to the licensee must be
postmarked at least seven days prior to the hearing. The City Attorney, or his
or her designee, shall represent the city at the hearing. The licensee has the
right to retain legal counsel for representation at the hearing; however, the
city shall not provide counsel for the licensee if the licensee is unable to
afford legal counsel. The City ABC Administrator shall issue a written
decision, including findings of fact and conclusions of law, within ten days
after the conclusion of the hearing. Any order of suspension or revocation
issued by the City ABC Administrator may be appealed to the State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board within 30 days of the date of the order.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
CHAPTER 118: COMPENSATION TAX
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Compensation tax payment required
   
118.03   Payment of tax quarterly
   
118.04   Apportionment
   
118.05   Employers to withhold
   
118.06   Production of documents
   
118.07   Extensions
   
118.08   Refunds
   
118.09   Audit provisions
   
118.10   Administrative provisions
   
118.11   Information to remain confidential
   
118.12   Use of compensation tax
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include the usual activities of board of trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations or unions, or other associations performing services usually
performed by trade associations or unions. BUSINESS shall not include funds,
foundations, corporations or associations organized and operated for the
exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
educational, civic or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings,
incomes or receipts of such unit, group or association, inures to the benefit
of any private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   CITY. The City of La Grange, Kentucky.
   COMPENSATION. Wages or salaries paid or payable by an employer for services
performed by an employee, which are required to be reported for federal income
tax purposes and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under §§ 401(a), 401
(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h) or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code;
and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or other
payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including but not limited to §§
125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee or elected official of the United States, a state or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
the term EMPLOYER means the person having control of the payment of such wages;
and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, the term EMPLOYER means such
person.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months ending on the last day of any
month other than December.
   INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT. The 2005 agreement by and between the City
of LaGrange, Kentucky and the County of Oldham, Kentucky pursuant to KRS 65.210
to 65.300 establishing the Oldham-LaGrange Development Authority (OLDA) under
KRS 154.50-301 et seq. for the purpose of jointly promoting economic
development with the city and county.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 1,
2003, exclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than
amendments that extend provisions in effect on December 31, 2003, that would
otherwise terminate.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or nonresident of the city.
Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a penalty
in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a partnership
or any form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to limited liability companies or corporations, shall
mean the officers, members and/or directors thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease or rental of goods, services or
property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any city of the first to fifth class with the authority to
levy compensation taxes.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which wages or salaries are earned.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 8-5-2013; Ord. 14-2022, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 118.02 COMPENSATION TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, any person who
earns wages or salaries and is required to make a filing with the Internal
Revenue Service or the Kentucky Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and
pay to the city a compensation tax for the privilege of engaging in such
activities within the city. The compensation tax shall be measured by 1% of all
compensation paid or payable in the city for work done or services performed or
rendered in the city by every resident and nonresident who is an employee.
   (B)   The compensation tax imposed in this section shall not apply to the
following persons:
      (1)   Any members of the Kentucky National Guard for active duty
training, unit training assemblies and annual field training;
      (2)   Any precinct workers for election training or work at election
booths in state, county and local primary, regular or special elections;
      (3)   Persons who have been issued a license under KRS Chapter 243 to
engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic beverages, but only for
compensation earned directly as a result of engaging in that activity. Persons
engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic beverages
are required to file a return but may exclude the portion of their compensation
derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 8-5-2013; Ord. 14-2022, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 118.03 PAYMENT OF TAX QUARTERLY.
   (A)   Every business who employs individuals subject to taxation under this
chapter, shall collect and make quarterly tax payments on behalf of the
employees subject to this tax on or before: the last day of October (for
liability accrued from July 1 through the end of September); and the last day
of January (for liability accrued from October 1 through the end of December of
the prior calendar year); the last day of April (for liability accrued from
January 1 through the end of March); the last day of the July (for liability
accrued from April 1 through the end of June).
   (B)   Any business entity that fails to submit the quarterly payment
required under division (A) of this section by the due date for the quarterly
payment shall pay an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the
amount of the quarterly payment required under division (A) of this section.
   (C)   At the election of the business entity, any installment of the
estimated tax may be paid prior to the date prescribed for its payment.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 8-5-2013; Ord. 14-2022, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 118.04 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the
compensation tax shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or
payable as a result of the work done or service performed or rendered within
the city. The compensation tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage
which the compensation for work performed or services rendered within the city
bears to the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the
city to verify the accuracy of a taxpayer's reported payments under this
chapter, the taxpayer's employer shall maintain adequate records.
   (B)   All income earned by partnerships, S corporations and all other
entities where income is "passed through" to the owners are not subject to this
chapter.
   (C)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
compensation tax due from the employees of the business for the period of that
taxable year during which the business entity had business activity in the
city.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 8-5-2013; Ord. 14-2022, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 118.05 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee,
including government agencies (federal, state of local), and non-profit
organizations with paid staff, shall deduct and withhold from the compensation
a compensation tax calculated under §
118.02.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending December 31 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city, the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall complete and file on a form furnished or approved by the city a
reconciliation of the compensation tax withheld where compensation is paid or
payable to the employees. The city may request, at any time, either copies of
federal Forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or a
detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and compensation tax
deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee for payment
to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this section shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid or
payable to one or more employees of the business entity, and neither the
corporate dissolution or withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor
the cessation of holding any corporate office, shall discharge that liability;
provided that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each and
every person holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became
obligated. No person shall be personally and individually liable under this
division (H) unless such person had authority to collect, truthfully account
for, or pay over the tax imposed by this chapter at the time that the taxes
imposed by this chapter became or become due.
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (G) and (H) of this section, every employee
receiving compensation in the city subject to the tax imposed under §
118.02 shall be personally liable for any amount due. In all cases where the
employer does not withhold the tax levied under this chapter from the employee,
such employee or employees shall be responsible for filing with the city each
quarter in the same manner as if they were the employer.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 8-5-2013; Ord. 14-2022, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 118.06 PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable quarter shall be
made each quarter, on the dates provided herein in §
118.03. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the city.
   (B)   Whenever, in the opinion of the city, it is necessary to examine the
records of any business entity in order to audit the return, the city may
compel the business entity to produce for inspection a copy of any records,
statements and schedules in support thereof that have not been previously
filed. The city may also require copies of reports of adjustments made by the
federal government. The city may compel this inspection by providing written
notice to the business entity. If a request for examination is made, the
requested documents must be produced for examination to the City Attorney
within 30 days of the mailing of the notice to compel inspection.
   (C)   Every business entity who employs persons who are subject to a
compensation tax governed by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records,
render under oath statements, make returns and comply with rules as the city
from time to time may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city
may require a business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make
a return, render statements under oath or keep records, as the city deems
sufficient to determine the tax liability of the employees of the business
entity.
   (D)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable
compensation of any employee of any business entity, the attendance of a
representative of the business entity or any other person having knowledge of
the compensation paid.
   (E)   The full amount of the tax payable by any business entity on behalf of
its employees, as appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the
city at or before the time prescribed for filing the compensation tax return,
determined without regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 8-5-2013; Ord. 14-2022, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 118.07 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months for filing its return, if the business entity, on or before the date
prescribed for payment of the compensation tax, requests the extension and pays
the amount properly estimated as its tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business shall pay,
as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the tax
shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from the time the tax
was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the city. A
fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 8-5-2013; Ord. 14-2022, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 118.08 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
118.05, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer to the extent of
overpayment only if a written application for refund or credit is received by
the city from the employer within two years from the date the overpayment was
made.
   (B)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on the time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city, the compensation tax on the compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file for a refund
within two years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a return. The
employee shall provide by affidavit, and with supporting documentation, a
schedule and computation sufficient to verify the refund claim and the city may
require that the employer provide, by affidavit, a statement corroborating the
schedule and computation of the employee, the percentage of time spent outside
the city and the amount of compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city prior to approval of the refund.
   (C)   In the case where the tax computed under the provisions of this
chapter is less than the amount which has been declared and paid as estimated
tax for the same taxable year, a refund or credit, if a credit is requested,
shall be made upon the filing of a return.
   (D)   (1)   Overpayment resulting from the payment of estimated tax in
excess of the amount determined to be due upon the filing of a return for the
same taxable year may be credited against the amount of estimated tax
determined to be due on any declaration filed for the next succeeding taxable
year or for any deficiency or nonpayment of tax for any previous taxable year.
      (2)   No refund shall be made of any estimated tax paid unless a complete
return is filed as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 8-5-2013; Ord. 14-2022, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 118.09 AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city may
examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division (A).
      (1)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent return
the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
      (2)   (a)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates
compensation, or omits an amount properly includable in compensation, or both,
which understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the amount of
compensation stated on the return, the additional tax may be assessed at any
time within six years after the return was filed.
         (b)   The times provided in this division (A) may be extended by
agreement between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this
division (A)(2), a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for
filing the return shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension
granted for filing the return shall also be considered as extending the last
day prescribed by law for filing the return.
   (B)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any unpaid
tax within six years after the tax becomes payable to the city.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 8-5-2013; Ord. 14-2022, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 118.10 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may be
refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is
later, except that:
      (1)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
118.09 has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
city, the limitation contained in this division (B) shall be extended
accordingly.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (B) and division (A) of this
section, a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the
return shall be considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 8-5-2013; Ord. 14-2022, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 118.11 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall intentionally
and without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the tax district or other proper
officer, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person's business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer's property authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the tax district from testifying in court, or from introducing
as evidence returns or reports filed with the tax district, in an action for
violation of tax district law or in any action challenging a tax district tax
laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue
of the Commonwealth or his or her duly authorized agent all such information
and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the city if the
Commissioner of Revenue of the Commonwealth grants to the city the reciprocal
right to obtain information from the files and records of the Kentucky
Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the information
so furnished; provided, further, that the city may, but is not required to,
publish statistics based on such information in such a manner as not to reveal
data respecting compensation of any person or business entity.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) of this section with any other taxing
entity, should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect
diligent enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 8-5-2013; Ord. 14-2022, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 118.12 USE OF COMPENSATION TAX.
   (A)   All money derived from the compensation taxes under the provisions of
this chapter shall be paid to the city and placed to the credit of the city's
General Revenue Fund; however, one-half of all funds collected as a
compensation tax from businesses and organizations located or doing business
within the boundaries of the Oldham Reserve Property (see Exhibit A-1, attached
to the ordinance codified herein) shall be paid to Oldham County Fiscal Court
in accordance with the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement.
   (B)   A minimum of 20% of net compensation taxes received by the city from
Oldham Reserve businesses after the payment to Oldham County described in
division (A) above shall be set aside in a reserve account for future
infrastructure, utility, public works, and other economic development
obligations under the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement; and
   (C)   Subject to divisions (A) and (B) above, the remainder of all funds
collected as a compensation tax shall be used for the purposes of promoting
economic development within the boundaries of the city, creating job
opportunities for the citizens of the city, and accomplishing public projects,
including completion of the Oldham Reserve infrastructure and utilities
reasonably necessary for economic development and growth in accordance with the
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement; for public works and capital projects to
maintain, repair, and improve city streets, sidewalks, transportation, parking,
drainage, internet access, and other public facilities; for public parks and
recreation activities to promote the health, safety and welfare of the
citizenry; and for public safety and protection of person and property of the
citizens of the city.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 8-5-2013; Ord. 14-2022, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A business entity subject to tax on compensation may be subject
to a penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or fraction
thereof if the business entity:
         (a)   Fails to file any return or report, annual or quarterly, on or
before the due date prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
         (b)   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
      (2)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this subsection shall not
exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than
$25.
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the time prescribed under §
118.05 may be subject to a penalty in amount equal to 5% of the tax due for
each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty levied pursuant to
this division (B) shall not exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the
penalty shall not be less than $25. This division (B) also applies to any
quarterly tax estimate where the payment submitted with the estimate is less
than that required by §
118.03.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid, from the
time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the city. A fraction of a month
is counted as an entire month. This division (C) also applies to any quarterly
tax estimate where the payment submitted with the estimate is less than that
required by §
118.03.
   (D)   Every tax imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (E)   The city may enforce the collection of the compensation tax due under§
118.03 and any fees, penalties and interest as provided in divisions (A), (B),
(C) and (D) of this section as a violation which may be heard by the LaGrange
Code Enforcement Board or by civil action in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction. The city shall be entitled to recover all court costs, postage
expenses, and reasonable attorney(s) and/or paralegal(s) fees incurred by it in
enforcing any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return or willfully makes a
false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected, with the
intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part thereof,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this chapter, or by the rules of the city or
by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
   (I)   Any person violating the provisions of §
118.11 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both.
   (J)   Any person violating the provisions of §
118.11 by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 8-5-2013; Ord. 14-2022, passed 12-5-2022)
CHAPTER 119: RENTAL PROPERTIES
Section
Registration of Rental Properties
   
119.01   Purpose
   
119.02   Definitions
   
119.03   Registration and exceptions
   
119.04   Enforcement
Short-Term Rental Property
   119.20   Short-term rental property
REGISTRATION OF RENTAL PROPERTIES
§ 119.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to establish a registration
system to identify rental property within the city and to obtain accurate
personal information for the property owner thereof for official notification,
service of process, emergency contact involving public health, safety and
welfare, or for enforcement of ordinances concerning the property.
(Ord. 9-2019, passed 6-3-2019)
§ 119.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The real party in interest who owns and controls the rental
property, directly or indirectly; whether through an agent or third party
property manager; provided, however, that in the event of ownership by a
corporation, limited liability company, trust, non-profit organization, foreign
entity or other party, the PROPERTY OWNER shall identify the real name and
street address of the person authorized to accept service or official notices
from the city.
   RENTAL PROPERTY. Any real property located within the city limits that
leased or rented by the owner of the property to other persons or entities for
compensation, directly or indirectly, short-term or long-term, residential or
commercial, oral or written lease, including all zoning uses, vacant land and
all improvements appurtenant thereon. RENTAL PROPERTY with multiple housing
units or multiple uses shall be deemed a single rental property for purposes of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 9-2019, passed 6-3-2019)
§ 119.03 REGISTRATION AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The property owner of every rental property within the city limits
shall register the property as rental property by submitting a verified
application and paying the required fee. The registration is intended to
identify the real party or parties in interest having direct or indirect
financial interest and authority to accept service of process.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall charge each property owner an initial
registration fee of $40, which shall identify all rental properties owned or
controlled by said property owner. An annual renewal form shall be filed by
each property owner on or before November 15 of each year verifying or
correcting the accuracy and completeness of the information on record.
   (C)   The Clerk is authorized and directed to prepare a rental license
registration and renewal form for use in obtaining and maintaining accurate and
current contact information for the owner of each rental property within the
city.
   (D)   The owner of each and every rental property within the city limits
shall be identified to and registered with the City Clerk, and it shall be a
violation of this subchapter to fail to register or omit the registration of
any rental property.
   (E)   This subchapter shall not apply to individual rooms at hotels, motels,
hospitals, hospice facilities, assisted living facilities, nursing homes,
residential care facilities, nor to homeless shelters, emergency or temporary
housing, safe place facilities or public housing.
(Ord. 9-2019, passed 6-3-2019)
§ 119.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   If the property owner fails to register the rental property within 30 days
of its rental, or within 30 days of written notice of violation of this
subchapter, the Code Enforcement Officer may issue a citation to the property
owner, stating the fines and penalties that may be assessed for failure to
comply with this subchapter, as follows.
   (A)   The property owner may be fined up to $50 for each rental property
that has not been registered. If the fine is not paid within 30 days, an
additional fine of $100 and costs may be assessed by the Code Enforcement
Board, with interest thereon at the legal rate.
   (B)   The City Clerk is authorized to record a lien upon the rental property
for any unpaid fines or penalties owed on the property, which may be enforced
by a civil action or recovered from the proceeds of the property.
(Ord. 9-2019, passed 6-3-2019)
SHORT-TERM RENTAL PROPERTY
§ 119.20 SHORT-TERM RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BEDROOM. An area of a short-term rental property normally occupied for
sleeping purposes in compliance with the requirements of the Kentucky Building
Code.
      BUSINESS ENTITY. A corporation, partnership, or other legal entity that
is not a person or a personal or family trust.
      CHANGE OF MANAGER. The transfer of manager from one individual to another
individual.
      CHANGE OF PROPERTY OWNERSHIP. The transfer of property ownership title
from one host to another host.
      HOST. Any person who is the owner of record of real property who offers a
short-term rental property, or portion thereof, for transient occupancy.
         NON-OWNER OCCUPIED HOST. Owner of record of the short-term rental
property whose primary residence is not located on the same lot or immediately
adjacent lot of the short-term rental property (see footnote in division (B)
below).
         OWNER OCCUPIED HOST.
            1.   Owner of record of the short-term rental property whose
primary residence is located on the same lot or immediately adjacent lot of the
short-term rental property.
            2.   An OWNER OCCUPIED HOST may include a trust, corporation,
limited liability company, or other business entity if the property is the
primary residence of a person having ownership and control of the entity with
title to the property.
      HOSTING PLATFORM. A person and/or entity that provides a means through
which a host may offer a short-term rental property, or portion thereof, for
transient occupancy. HOSTING PLATFORMS are typically internet based and enable
a host to advertise the short-term rental property through a website and/or
mobile app.
      MANAGER. An individual with a permanent address located in Oldham County
or within 25 miles of a short-term rental property, measured by driving
distance, who is immediately available 24 hours a day, seven days a week for
the purpose of in-person responses to complaints regarding the condition and
operation, or conduct of the transient guests, of short-term rental property,
and who shall be authorized by the host to undertake remedial action to address
maintenance, safety issues, and compliance of transient guests and invitees.
      OWNER. The person or entity in whom title of record to real property is
vested.
      PRIMARY RESIDENCE. The main home of an individual or family where they
reside a minimum of six months on an annual basis.
      SHORT-TERM RENTAL PROPERTY.
         (a)   A dwelling unit that is used or advertised for rent for
transient occupancy, in which no meals are served by the host, for a time
period less than 30 consecutive days by a transient guest.
         (b)   Any other land use intended for transient occupancy specifically
identified elsewhere in the zoning ordinance shall not be considered as a
SHORT-TERM RENTAL PROPERTY, such as bed and breakfasts, boarding rooms,
extended stay lodging, hotels, motels, hostels, recreational vehicles,
trailers, tents, motor homes, mobile homes, or similar means of transient
occupation of real property.
      SHORT-TERM RENTAL PROPERTY HOUSE RULES. Minimum standards of conduct
posted on the short-term rental property requiring transient guests and their
invitees to be respectful of the neighbors and neighborhood in which the
property is located.
      SHORT-TERM RENTAL PROPERTY MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY. Twice the number of
bedrooms plus four to determine the allowable number of transient guests at a
short-term rental property.
      SHORT-TERM RENTAL PROPERTY NUMBER OF BEDROOMS. Number of bedrooms in a
short-term rental property unit as determined by the official records of the
Oldham County Property Valuation Administrator's records.
      SHORT-TERM RENTAL PROPERTY PERMIT. A required permit reviewed and issued
by the city code enforcement authorizing the establishment and operation of a
short-term rental property for a defined time period.
      TRANSIENT GUESTS. A person or persons who exercise transient occupancy or
is entitled to transient occupancy of any rooms, lodgings or accommodations at
a short-term rental property for a time period less than 30 consecutive days.
      TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY. The permissive occupation or use by a person or
group of a rental property for a time period less than 30 consecutive days, not
to exceed 30 non-consecutive days in any 60-day period.
   (B)   Short-term rental property permitted use and conditional use
standards.
ZONING DISTRICT OWNER OCCUPIED HOST SHORT-TERM NON-OWNER OCCUPIED HOST SHORT-
                RENTAL PROPERTY                TERM RENTAL PROPERTY
ZONING DISTRICT OWNER OCCUPIED HOST SHORT-TERM NON-OWNER OCCUPIED HOST SHORT-
                RENTAL PROPERTY                TERM RENTAL PROPERTY
AG-1            CU                             X
AG-2            CU                             X
CO-1            CU                             X
R-1             CU                             X
R-1A            CU                             X
R-2             CU                             X
R-2A            CU                             X
R-3             CU                             X
R-4             CU                             X
R-4A            CU                             X
T               X                              X
O-1             p                              P
O-2             p                              P
C-N             CU                             CU*
C-1             p                              P
C-2             p                              P
C-3             p                              P
C-4             p                              P
1-1             p                              P
I-2             p                              P
IPD             p                              P
SWF-1           X                              X
PUD             DS                             DS
PRD             DS                             DS
PND             DS                             DS
 
      CU = Conditional Use   P = Permitted Use   X = Not Permitted   DS =
Development Specific
*A Non-owner occupied host short-term rental property may be eligible for a
conditional use permit for short-term rental only if the owner currently
resides in Oldham County or within 25 miles of the short-term rental property.
   (C)   Short-term rental property operating requirements and minimum
standards. Every host of a short-term rental property shall comply with the
operating requirements and standards set forth in this division (C), as
follows:
      (1)   The host shall not establish, operate, or advertise a short-term
rental property without having first obtained and maintained in good standing a
short-term rental property permit from the city code enforcement.
      (2)   A short-term rental property shall only be available for transient
occupancy for a time period less than 30 consecutive days by a transient guest.
      (3)   A short-term rental property shall be limited to a single
contractual transient guest at a time and simultaneous rental contracts shall
be prohibited. Additionally, the short-term rental property cannot be
advertised on a hosting platform as concurrently available while under contract
with a transient guest.
      (4)   The contractual transient guest of a short-term rental property
shall be a minimum age of 21 years old.
      (5)   The host shall obtain, continuously maintain, and pay premiums for
insurance policies that cover the short-term rental property as a commercial
activity.
      (6)   The host or hosting platform shall be required to collect and remit
all applicable room, occupancy, and sales taxes required by federal, state, and
local governments.
      (7)   The host shall be responsible for compliance with current
applicable laws and regulations of the federal, state, or local governments, as
may be amended from time to time including but not limited to, laws or
regulations on nondiscrimination, zoning, building, safety, property
maintenance, health and sanitation, fire, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, and
other applicable laws.
      (8)   The host shall use reasonable property management practices to
ensure that transient guests and visitors of the short-term rental property do
not create noise disturbances, engage in disorderly conduct, and/or violate
provisions of federal, state, and local regulations.
      (9)   The host shall post and maintain a copy of the current short-term
rental property permit on the hosting platform and on the inside of the short-
term rental property unit in a conspicuous location near the primary door.
      (10)   The host shall post and maintain inside the short-term rental
property unit in a conspicuous location the following minimum house rules for
use of transient guests:
         (a)   The name of the host telephone/cell number and email in which
the host may be reached on a 24 hours a day, seven days a week basis.
         (b)   The name of the manager and telephone/cell number and email in
which the manager may be reached on a 24 hours a day, seven days a week basis.
         (c)   Maximum number of transient guests authorized to exercise
transient occupancy within the short-term rental property.
         (d)   Evacuation routes from the short-term rental property unit in
the event of an emergency requiring withdrawal from the unit.
         (e)   Parking shall be on the same property in which the short-term
rental property unit is located and not on adjoining properties or streets.
         (f)   Trash pick-up day and that trash and refuse shall not be stored
within public views except in proper containers with a closeable lid.
         (g)   Any device or machine utilized for the amplification of sound
shall not be audible at the adjoining property lines.
         (h)   Loud or disturbing outdoor and group activities shall not occur
during the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
      (11)   Outdoor signage which identifies the short-term rental property in
residentially zoned areas is strictly prohibited and outdoor signage which
identifies the short-term rental in non-residentially zoned areas must obtain
an appropriate sign permit from the city.
      (12)   Parking shall be provided on the same property in which the short-
term rental property dwelling unit is located. The minimum number of parking
spaces for transient guests shall be determined by the maximum occupancy
divided by two and one-half. Parking on the street is not allowed unless the
short-term rental property has no driveway, alley or other means of vehicular
parking.
      (13)   Trash and refuse shall not be stored within public views except in
proper containers with a closeable lid.
      (14)   Any device or machine utilized for the amplification of sound
shall not be audible at the property line of the short-term rental property.
      (15)   Outdoor and group activities shall not occur during the hours of
10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Such outdoor activities include but are not limited to
swimming, hot tubbing, loud partying, lighted games, and other disturbances of
the peace.
      (16)   Transient guests and their invitees shall comply with nuisance
ordinances and be subject to citations and jurisdiction of the Lagrange Code
Enforcement Board and the Oldham County Courts.
   (D)   Short-term rental property permit required.
      (1)   No person, firm, or corporation shall own or operate a short-term
rental property on any premises within Oldham County unless the short-term
rental has been registered annually with the City Code Enforcement Board.
      (2)   Applications shall include the following:
         (a)   Payment of application fee of $150 ($125 annual renewal fee).
         (b)   Completed application.
         (c)   Accompanying supporting information consisting of the following:
            1.   The name of the host, the postal mailing and email addresses
of the host, and telephone number by which the host may be reached on a 24
hours a day, seven days a week basis.
            2.   The name of the manager, the postal mailing and email
addresses of the manager, and telephone number by which the manager may be
reached on a 24 hours a day, seven days a week basis.
            3.   A floor plan of the unit showing number of bedrooms, details
of all levels of the dwelling unit and any attached structures, location of
windows, doors (interior and exterior), and locations of the required smoke
detectors.
            4.   A plot plan of the property showing the shape of the property,
location of the dwelling unit, location of all other structures, and location
of driveway and required parking spaces.
            5.   Owner-occupied host must provide proof of primary residence
and provide two documents to verify their primary residence. Acceptable
documents include, but are not limited to, a driver's license, state
identification card, vehicle registration, voter registration, utility bills,
and work identification or badge. Such documents must be current and show the
host's name and mailing address matching that of the short-term rental
property.
            6.   Proof of premises liability insurance policies that cover the
short-term rental property as a commercial activity.
            7.   A sworn statement that the applicant has confirmed that
operating the proposed short-term rental property does not violate any
homeowners association agreement or bylaws, condominium agreement, covenants,
codes and restrictions, deed restrictions, and/or any other agreement governing
and limiting the use of the proposed short-term rental property. If a
homeowners association exists a written statement from the homeowners
association must be provided in addition to the applicant's written statement.
   (E)   Expiration, renewal, or revocation of short-term rental property
permit.
      (1)   Short-term rental property permits shall be continuously maintained
by the host and ordinarily expire on December 31 of every year and must be
renewed annually. Permits are issued to the host and do not run with the land.
      (2)   If any of the following events occur prior to the December 31
renewal date it triggers an expiration of the short-term rental property permit
and a required renewal application of the short-term rental property permit:
         (a)   1.   Change of property ownership.
            2.   Change of manager.
            3.   Change of insurance policy.
            4.   Change in the maximum number of bedrooms.
            5.   Change in status of any previously approved conditional use.
         (b)   No fee is required for renewal triggered by change of manager or
insurance.
         (c)   A renewal application grace period of 30 days will be allowed
from the date of the triggering event for administrative review of the
application.
      (3)   Short-term rental property permits shall be subject to revocation
or suspension for good cause at the discretion of the Code Enforcement Officer
in the event of any of the following occurrences:
         (a)   Failure by the host to submit accurate and true information with
a short-term rental property application.
         (b)   Failure by the host to renew an expired short-term rental
property permit by the ordinary December 31 renewal date of every year.
         (c)   Failure by the host to renew an expired short-term rental
property permit that has been triggered by an event.
         (d)   Advertising on a hosting platform an occupancy that exceeds the
allowable short-term rental property's maximum occupancy.
         (e)   Enforcement action undertaken by city code enforcement regarding
the operation or unpermitted use of short-term rental property.
         (f)   Hosts and/or transient guests may be issued citations for
violations of city ordinances to be heard by the City Code Enforcement Board.
         (g)   Two or more citations and/or criminal complaints regarding the
operation of the short-term rental property or conduct of transient guests
shall be grounds for revocation.
         (h)   In the event of a revocation of a short-term rental property
permit an administrative appeal may be filed by the host to the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals. In the event of a revocation of a short-term rental
property permit the host may not make an application for a different short-term
rental property permit on the same property for a period of one year.
(Ord. 20-2023, passed 1-3-2024)
CHAPTER 120: HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLES
Section
   
120.01   License established; compliance with business license and compensation
tax regulations
   
120.02   Application for license
   
120.03   Inspection of vehicles to assure conformance with safety regulations
   
120.04   Responsibilities of licensee
   
120.05   Minimum standards; veterinary care
 
   
120.99   Penalty
§ 120.01 LICENSE ESTABLISHED; COMPLIANCE WITH BUSINESS LICENSE AND COMPENSATION
TAX REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A license for a horse drawn vehicle business is hereby established for
the city for the privilege of operating within the city limits.
   (B)   The horse-drawn vehicle business shall be subject to the rules and
regulations set out in this chapter which must be complied with as a condition
for a license.
   (C)   The horse drawn vehicle business is subject to the business license
tax under
Chapter 110 and the compensation tax under
Chapter 118, if applicable.
   (D)   No license may be transferred or assigned to a third party without the
prior written consent of the city Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 5-1-2023)
§ 120.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Owners of horse-drawn vehicle businesses shall apply to the city for a
license to use the public streets of the city. Each carriage and horse must
have a permit issued by the Code Enforcement Officer. The owners shall supply
the city with the following:
   (A)   A description of each horse to be used in this business.
   (B)   A description of each vehicle to be used and its seating capacity.
   (C)   The names of all persons other than the applicant who will operate or
control any of the horses, vehicles, or other property used in the business.
   (D)   The proposed routes for the owner's vehicles, the hours of operation,
and the station or office from which the vehicles shall be operated; all of
which shall be approved by the city Code Enforcement Officer.
   (E)   When deciding to approve or deny the proposed routes the Code
Enforcement Officer shall take into account those factors which are in the best
interest of the city, including but not limited to, public health and safety,
traffic flow, damage to roadways and infrastructure, waste management, and
animal care.
   (F)   A copy of an approved insurance policy and indemnity bond. The
insurance policy shall provide liability insurance coverage, defense and
indemnity of the city for injury to persons or property, including death of
individuals or animals, in accidents resulting from any causes for which the
driver or owner of the horse-drawn vehicle business would be liable on account
of liability imposed on them by law in the minimum amount of $1,000,000, where
the city shall be listed as an additionally named insured.
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 5-1-2023) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.03 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES TO ASSURE CONFORMANCE WITH SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   Each vehicle to be used in the horse-drawn vehicle business shall be
inspected by the city designated agent prior to the issuance of any license. An
inspection shall verify that the vehicle conforms with the safety requirements
set out below. As a minimum standard and to be included in these regulations
are the following:
   (A)   Vehicles will have no less than one and three-eighths inch spoke
wheels with a rubber covering thick enough to protect the streets from damage
and to keep noise to a minimum.
   (B)   All vehicles will be equipped with front lights on both sides that are
capable of illuminating an object 100 feet in front of the carriage; turn
signals on the front and the rear of the vehicle; flashing warning lights on
the front and the rear of the vehicle; taillights; and brake lights.
   (C)   All vehicles will be equipped with hydraulic brakes on the rear axle
of the vehicle and with a horn or other device capable of making an abrupt
sound sufficiently loud to be heard under all ordinary traffic conditions.
   (D)   Each vehicle will be equipped with a device to catch horse manure from
falling to the pavement.
   (E)   Each vehicle will be equipped with the slow-moving vehicle emblem
required by the Commonwealth of Kentucky to be attached to the rear of the
vehicle.
   (F)   No vehicle shall be wider than eight feet, including fenders, running
boards, and safety mirrors and devices.
   (G)   All vehicles and carriages must be in safe working order upon
presentation and shall pass inspection by the city Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 5-1-2023) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.04 RESPONSIBILITIES OF LICENSEE.
   A licensee, having been issued a license under this chapter to engage in the
business of operating horse-drawn vehicles or driving horse-drawn vehicles,
shall be responsible for the following:
   (A)   Ensuring that the horse and vehicle are attended at all times
including when loading or discharging passengers.
   (B)   Requiring that all passengers be seated except when boarding or
discharging.
   (C)   Making available to any person, upon request, the rates for all tours
and trips offered by the business.
   (D)   Spraying all liquid waste from the horse immediately with the
appropriate chemical to eliminate all noxious odor and bacteria.
   (E)   Disposing of manure from the manure-catching device on the horse-drawn
vehicle upon return to its base of operations.
   (F)   Preventing the driver from soliciting patronage or in any manner
annoying or obstructing the movement of any person or following any person for
the purpose of soliciting patronage.
   (G)   Operating safe and sanitary horse-drawn vehicles at all times.
   (H)   Otherwise conducting the horse-drawn vehicle business in accordance
with this chapter and other requirements of law.
   (I)   All drivers must be over 16 years of age, possess a current driver's
license to operate vehicles on the highways of Kentucky, and submit evidence of
sufficient training and capability of handling the horse and carriage in a safe
manner.
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 5-1-2023) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.05 MINIMUM STANDARDS; VETERINARY CARE.
   A licensee shall, in addition to other requirements of this chapter, comply
with the minimum standards of this section.
   (A)   All horses shall be provided with daily food and water, free from
contamination. The food shall be wholesome, palatable, and of sufficient
quantity and nutritive value to meet the normal daily requirements for the
condition and size of the horse.
   (B)   (1)   Licensed horses under this chapter shall be exempt from the
prohibition of farm animals under §
90.09. No stabling or pasturing of horses shall be allowed within the city
limits, without a special permit from the Code Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   The licensee shall not permit any horse or horses to be kept,
maintained, stored, or remain inside the limits of the city between the hours
of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m., unless a horse trailer permit is issued by the
Code Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   All horses used in the horse-drawn vehicle business must have a
veterinarian examination not more than six months old affirming the general
good health of the horse, having sufficient body weight and strength to pull
the carriage, with no lameness, open sores or nasal discharge. The veterinary
records must provide proof of coggins, vaccinations, and certificate of good
health.
   (D)   Horses shall be properly shod with four rubber compound type
horseshoes, borium shoes, or similar nonslip-type shoes that are a proper fit
to keep the animal from slipping on the pavement. The hooves shall be kept
trimmed.
   (E)   Horses shall be kept clean and in particular, the areas in contact
with the harness or other tack.
   (F)   Horses shall not be worked more than two hours without being given a
cumulative total of 30 minutes of rest. The maximum working period for any one
horse shall be eight hours out of every 24 hours.
   (G)   The speed at which any horse is driven shall not exceed a slow trot.
   (H)   No horse shall be over-ridden or driven to result in overheating or
exhaustion.
   (I)   Horses shall be provided water at the loading site and on routes at
all times that they are working.
   (J)   All harnesses and bridles shall be kept oiled and clean so as to be
soft at all times.
   (K)   All harnesses will be properly fitted and maintained, and kept free of
makeshift-like wire, sisal rope, and rusty chain.
   (L)   No horse is to be worked with equipment causing an impairment of
vision other than normal blinders.
   (M)   No one horse shall ever pull more than eight adult passengers. No
carriage shall be overloaded with more passengers than there are seats. No
person shall hang on or upon the outside of the carriage.
   (N)   Unsanitary conditions shall not be permitted to be present on any town
route, horse rest area or any area where the horses are kept. All these areas
shall be kept clean and free of conditions which might harbor or be conducive
to the breeding of insects or rodents.
   (O)   No horse shall be subject to any cruel or harassing treatment,
including any violation of the mandatory rest periods, feeding and watering
schedules, and workload limits established pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 5-1-2023) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any individual who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a violation and shall be subject for each offense to a fine or
penalty not to exceed $500 per offense as determined by the Code Enforcement
Board, or other remedial orders, including a stop work order or other
injunctive relief.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall subject the offender to the above civil penalty,
plus court or administrative costs and reasonable attorney's fees, which may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of a debt if not paid by
the offender within 30 days following a final order by the Code Board.
(Ord. 3-2023, passed 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 121: CANNABIS BUSINESS
Section
   
121.01   Cannabis business operations
   
121.02   Regulation of cannabis business
   
121.03   Conditional use permits
§ 121.01 CANNABIS BUSINESS OPERATIONS.
   Any cannabis business licensed to conduct operations within the Commonwealth
of Kentucky under KRS 218B may be permitted to conduct such cannabis business
operations within the city limits as a conditional use subject to all
regulations, conditions, restrictions or binding elements as may be imposed by
the Board of Adjustments and Appeals under KRS 100.237.
(Ord. 14-2024, passed 10-4-2024)
§ 121.02 REGULATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESS.
   The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall have full power to hear and
decide applications for conditional use permits for any cannabis business
operations specifically named in KRS 218B.010, to allow the proper integration
in the community of cannabis business operations that are suitable only in
specific locations within the city or zoning district only if certain
conditions are met that are not less restrictive than KRS 218B relating to the
time, place and manner of cannabis business operations, provided that no
conditions or regulations impose undue burdens or make the cannabis business
unreasonable or impractical to operate.
(Ord. 14-2024, passed 10-4-2024)
§ 121.03 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   All cannabis business operations, whether classified as a cultivator,
dispensary, processor, producer, or safety compliance facility under KRS 218B,
shall henceforth be considered conditional uses as defined in KRS 100.111 and
100.237.
   (B)   No cannabis business operations shall be permitted on any residential
property nor on any commercial property contiguous with or across the street
from any residential property. Nor shall any cannabis business operations be
permitted on or adjacent to any mixed use property unless the property has a
waiver of residential uses.
   (C)   No cannabis business operation shall be permitted within 1,000 feet of
any school or daycare, or the boundary of either historic district within the
city limits.
   (D)   No advertisements or signage to patronize cannabis business operations
or to purchase cannabis goods or services are permitted in the city limits,
except for approved signage identifying the name, address, hours and contact
information of the business.
   (E)   Parking and landscaping for cannabis business operations shall conform
with the Oldham County Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision
Regulations, subject to review and approval of building plans.
   (F)   Cannabis business operations must remain compliant with all state
licensing requirements and administrative regulations, or the conditional use
will be automatically revoked.
   (G)   Conditional use permits shall be unique to each cannabis business
operation and may not be transferred without a new application and hearing.
(Ord. 14-2024, passed 10-4-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
131.   FAMILY OFFENSES
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND JUSTICE
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
137.   SEXUAL OFFENSES
      
138.   INCHOATE OFFENSES
      
139.   GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII
      
140.   SMOKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Editor’s note:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against persons. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Offense KRS Section Penalty Class
Offense                        KRS Section Penalty Class
Assault                         
   First degree             508.010     B felony
   Second degree            508.020     C felony
   Third degree             508.025     A or B misdemeanor or C or D felony
   Fourth degree            508.030     A misdemeanor
   Under emotional disturban508.040     B misdemeanor or D felony
Criminal abuse
   First degree             508.100     C felony
   Second degree            508.110     D felony
   Third degree             508.120     A misdemeanor
Criminal coercion              509.080     A misdemeanor
Custodial interference         509.070     D felony
Kidnapping                     509.040     A or B felony; capital offense
Manslaughter
   First degree             507.030     B felony
   Second degree            507.040     C felony
Menacing                       508.050     B misdemeanor
Murder                         507.020     Capital offense
Reckless homicide              507.050     D felony
Terroristic threatening        508.080     A misdemeanor
Unlawful imprisonment
   First degree             509.020     D felony
   Second degree            509.030     A misdemeanor
Wanton endangerment
   First degree             508.060     D felony
   Second degree            508.070     A misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 131: FAMILY OFFENSES
Editor’s note:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common family offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Offense KRS Section Penalty Class
Offense                                    KRS Section Penalty Class
Bigamy                                     530.010     D felony
Concealing birth of infant                 530.030     A misdemeanor
Incest                                     530.020     A, B or C felony
Incompetent person, endangering welfare of 530.080     A misdemeanor
Minors
   Abandonment of                       530.040     D felony
   Endangering welfare of               530.060     A misdemeanor
   Unlawful transaction with
   First degree                         530.064     A, B or C felony
   Second degree                        530.065     D felony
   Third degree                         530.070     A misdemeanor
Nonsupport                                 530.050     A misdemeanor
Nonsupport, flagrant                       530.050     D felony
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
Cross-reference:
   Domestic violence, see §
35.019
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
132.01   Removing or defacing signs, posters, notices or advertisements
   
132.02   References to statutory offenses
§ 132.01 REMOVING OR DEFACING SIGNS, POSTERS, NOTICES, OR ADVERTISEMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or deface any sign,
poster, notice or advertisement that may be posted or exhibited in the city
except upon the authority of the person or persons posting up or exhibiting the
same.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the Chief of Police
or his or her designee acting pursuant to §
133.01.
(Ord. 30, passed 12-23-1896) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 REFERENCES TO STATUTORY OFFENSES.
Editor’s note:
   This section contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against property. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Offense KRS Section Penalty Class
Offense                             KRS Section Penalty Class
Arson
   Defrauding insurer            513.060     D felony
   First degree                  513.020     A felony
   Second degree                 513.030     B felony
   Third degree                  513.040     D felony
Burglary
   First degree                  511.020     B felony
   Second degree                 511.030     C felony
   Third degree                  511.040     D felony
   Possession of burglar’s tool511.050     A misdemeanor
Criminal mischief
   First degree                  512.020     D felony
   Second degree                 512.030     A misdemeanor
Criminal trespass
   First degree                  511.060     A misdemeanor
   Second degree                 511.070     B misdemeanor
   Third degree                  511.080     Violation
Forgery and related offenses
   Criminal simulation           516.110     A misdemeanor
   Forgery
      First degree            516.020     C felony
      Second degree           516.030     D felony
      Third degree            516.040     A misdemeanor
   Possession of forged instrument
      First degree            516.050     C felony
      Second degree           516.060     D felony
      Third degree            516.070     A misdemeanor
   Possession of forgery device  516.090     D felony
   Using slugs
      First degree            516.120     D felony
      Second degree           516.130     B misdemeanor
Littering, criminal                 512.070     A misdemeanor
Noxious substances
   Criminal possession of        512.060     B misdemeanor
   Criminal use of               512.050     B misdemeanor
Posting advertisements unlawfully   512.080     Violation
Robbery
   First degree                  515.020     B felony
   Second degree                 515.030     C felony
Theft and related offenses
   Device for theft of telephone 514.065     A misdemeanor or D felony
services
   Obscuring identity of machine 514.120     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Possession of stolen mail     514.150     D felony
   Receiving stolen property     514.110     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Theft by deception            514.040     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Theft by extortion            514.080     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Theft by failure to make      514.070     A misdemeanor or D felony
disposition
   Theft by unlawful taking      514.030     A misdemeanor or B, C or D
                                                felony
   Theft of labor                514.090     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Theft of mail matter          514.140     D felony
   Theft of property             514.050     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Theft of services             514.060     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Unauthorized use of vehicle   514.100     A misdemeanor or D felony
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Posting of obscene posters, signs, and the like prohibited
   
133.02   References to statutory offenses
§ 133.01 POSTING OF OBSCENE POSTERS, SIGNS, AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   (A) It shall be unlawful for any person to post up or cause to be posted
within the city any obscene picture, sign, painting, notice, poster or
advertisement, or any obscene device or contrivance.
   (B) Any obscene picture, sign, painting, notice, poster, advertisement or
any obscene device or contrivance posted in violation of this section shall be
summarily removed by the Chief of Police or his or her or her designee.
   (C) Material is obscene when the average person, applying contemporary
community standards, would find that the work taken as a whole, appeals to the
prurient interest; the work depicts or describes, in a patently offensive way,
sexual conduct specifically defined by applicable law; and the work, taken as a
whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
(Ord. 23, passed 12-23-1896) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02 REFERENCES TO STATUTORY OFFENSES.
Editor’s note:
   This section contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public morals. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Offense KRS Section Penalty Class
Offense                                                             KRS     Penalty
                                                                    Section Class
Pornography
   Advertising obscene material distribution                     531.050 B
                                                                            misdemeanor
      Distribution of obscene matter                          531.020 A or B
                                                                            misdemeanor
                                                                            A
      Distribution to minor                                   531.030 misdemeanor
                                                                            or D felony
                                                                            A
      Using minors to distribute                              531.040 misdemeanor
                                                                            or D felony
   Portrayal of sexual performance by minor
      Advertising material containing                         531.360 A
                                                                            misdemeanor
      Distributing matter                                     531.340 D felony
                                                                            A
      Possession of matter portraying sexual performance by a 531.335 misdemeanor
                                                                            or D felony
                                                                            A
      Promoting sale of matter containing                     531.350 misdemeanor;
                                                                            C or D
                                                                            felony
      Using minors to distribute such matter                  531.370 C or D
                                                                            felony
                                                                            A or B
   Promoting sale of obscenity                                   531.060 misdemeanor;
                                                                            D felony
   Sexual performance by minor
      Promotion of                                            531.320 A, B, or C
                                                                            felony
      Use of minor                                            531.310 A, B, or C
                                                                            felony
Prostitution offenses
                                                                            Violation or
   Loitering for prostitution purposes                           529.080 B
                                                                            misdemeanor
   Permitting prostitution                                       529.070 B
                                                                            misdemeanor
   Promoting prostitution                                        529.040 D felony; A
                                                                            misdemeanor
   Prostitution                                                  529.020 B
                                                                            misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Editor’s note:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common gambling offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Offense KRS Section Penalty Class
Offense                                   KRS Section Penalty Class
Conspiracy to promote gambling            528.040     D felony
Horse races, messenger betting prohibited 528.110     A misdemeanor
Pari-mutuel wagering                      558.120     A misdemeanor
Permitting gambling                       528.070     B misdemeanor
Possession of gambling device             528.080     A misdemeanor
Possession of gambling records
   First degree                        528.050     D felony
   Second degree                       528.060     A misdemeanor
Promoting gambling
   First degree                        528.020     D felony
   Second degree                       528.030     A misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND JUSTICE
Editor’s note:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public administration
and justice. These citations are intended only as convenient references for
enforcement officers in citing offenders under state law. It is not the
intention of the municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this
code of ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by
reference.
Offense KRS Section Penalty Class
Offense                                    KRS Section Penalty Class
Bribery and related offenses                           
   Bribery of public servant            521.020     C felony
   Receiving unlawful compensation      521.040     A misdemeanor
   Soliciting unlawful compensation     521.030     B misdemeanor
Escape and related offenses
   Bail jumping
      First degree                   520.070     D felony
      Second degree                  520.080     A misdemeanor
   Escape
      First degree                   520.020     C felony
      Second degree                  520.030     D felony
      Third degree                   520.040     B misdemeanor
   Hindering prosecution or apprehension
      First degree                   520.120     D felony
      Second degree                  520.130     A misdemeanor
   Promoting contraband
      First degree                   520.050     D felony
      Second degree                  520.060     A misdemeanor
   Resisting arrest                     520.090     A misdemeanor
   Resisting order to stop motor vehicle520.100     A misdemeanor
Judicial administration, interference with             
   Bribe receiving by juror             524.070     D felony
   Bribe receiving by witness           524.030     D felony
   Bribing a juror                      524.060     D felony
   Bribing a witness                    524.020     D felony
   Intimidating a witness               524.040     D felony
   Jury tampering                       524.090     D felony
   Retaliating against a witness        524.055     D felony
   Simulating legal process             524.110     B misdemeanor
   Tampering with physical evidence     524.100     D felony
   Tampering with a witness             524.050     D felony
   Unlawful practice of law             524.130     B misdemeanor
Perjury and related offenses
   False swearing                       523.040     B misdemeanor
   Perjury
      First degree                   523.020     D felony
      Second degree                  523.030     A misdemeanor
   Unsworn falsification to authorities 523.100     B misdemeanor
Public administration, obstruction of
   Compounding a crime                  519.030     A misdemeanor
   Falsely reporting an incident        519.040     A misdemeanor
   Impersonating a public servant       519.050     A misdemeanor
   Obstructing governmental operations  519.020     A misdemeanor
   Tampering with public records        519.060     A misdemeanor
Public office, abuse of
   Misuse of confidential information   522.040     D felony
   Official misconduct
      First degree                   522.020     A misdemeanor
      Second degree                  522.030     B misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
136.01   Discharge of weapons and explosives
   
136.02   Curfew for minors
   
136.03   References to statutory offenses
§ 136.01 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm or airgun, beebee gun or any
other toy gun projecting lead or any missiles, or to set off any preparation of
gunpowder or other explosives; provided that this section shall not be
construed to prohibit any officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the
performance of his or her duty, nor to any citizen from discharging a firearm
when lawfully defending person or property.
(Ord. 2-96, passed 3-4-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.02 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALLOW. To either permit or neglect to prevent with actual or constructive
knowledge. Knowledge will be presumed if the circumstances be such that a
reasonably prudent parent should have known the child was violating this
section.
      CITY OF LAGRANGE, KENTUCKY or CITY. Includes those areas located inside
of the limits of said city.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
         (a)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian;
         (c)   As a person who stands “in place of parents”; or
         (d)   As person to whom legal custody had been given by order of
court, or by another person(s) or entity with the authority to grant or
transfer legal custody.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry or to stay unnecessarily at, upon or in
any public assembly, building, place, street or highway.
   (B)   Curfew violation.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to be or
remain at, in or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway
with the city at night during the following periods:
         (a)   1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
         (b)   1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. Sunday;
         (c)   11:00 p.m. Sunday to 6:00 a.m. Monday;
         (d)   11:00 p.m. Monday to 6:00 a.m. Tuesday;
         (e)   11:00 p.m. Tuesday to 6:00 a.m. Wednesday;
         (f)   11:00 p.m. Wednesday to 6:00 a.m. Thursday; and
         (g)   11:00 p.m. Thursday to 6:00 a.m. Friday
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent of a minor to allow such minor
to be or remain at, in or upon a public assembly, building, place, street or
highway in the city under circumstances not constituting an exception as
enumerated in division (C) of this section during the time periods contained in
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Exceptions. In the following exception cases a minor found at, in or
upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway in the city during
the nocturnal hours provided for in division (B) of this section shall not be
considered in violation of this section:
      (1)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent;
      (2)   When the minor is accompanied by an adult who has been authorized
by a parent of such minor;
      (3)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech
and the right of assembly, provided that written notice signed by the minor and
countersigned by a parent is in the possession of such minor specifying when,
where and in what manner said minor will be exercising such First Amendment
rights;
      (4)   In case of reasonable necessity but only after such minor’s parent
has communicated to the Police Department in writing the facts establishing
such reasonable necessity; if, in the judgment of the highest ranking police
officer available at the time of a suspected violation of this ordinance,
reasonable necessity is not established, a violation will be determined to have
occurred;
      (5)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor who has not
communicated an objection to a police officer or the police department;
      (6)   When returning home, by a direct route from, and within one hour of
the termination of, a school activity, or any activity of a religious or other
voluntary association, provided that justification indicating the place and
time of termination of said event can be given to and verified by an
investigating officer of the Police Department;
      (7)   When engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of the
state authorize a person under 18 years of age to perform; and
      (8)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle with a
lawfully authorized driver.
   (D)   Police authority.
      (1)   A police officer upon finding or being notified of any minor at, in
or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway whose parent is
believed to be in violation of this section may stop and question such minor
and request such information as his or her name and age and the name and
address of his or her parent, guardian or person having legal custody.
      (2)   If the police officer determines or has reasonable cause to believe
that a curfew violation has occurred, the police officer may obtain from the
minor the information necessary to issue a citation to the minor’s parent, and
then either take the minor home or direct the minor to proceed immediately to
his or her home.
   (E)   Penalty. Any parent, guardian, or person having legal custody allowing
a minor to violate division (B)(1) shall be, for the first offense, subject to
a fine of no more than $100 and for the second and subsequent offenses shall be
subject to a fine of no more than $500 or imprisonment for a period not to
exceed six months or both.
(Ord. 2-96, passed 3-4-1996)
§ 136.03 REFERENCES TO STATUTORY OFFENSES.
Editor’s note:
   This section contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public order. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Offense KRS Section Penalty Class
Offense                          KRS Section Penalty Class
Abuse of corpse                  525.120     D felony
Cruelty to animals
   First degree               525.125     D felony
   Second degree              525.130     A misdemeanor
Desecration of venerated objects 525.105     C felony
                                525.110     A misdemeanor
Disorderly conduct               525.060     B misdemeanor
Disrupting meetings or           525.150     B misdemeanor
processions
Eavesdropping and related
offenses
Divulging illegally obtained     526.060     A misdemeanor
information
Eavesdropping                    526.020     D felony
Installing eavesdropping device  526.030     D felony
Possessing eavesdropping device  526.040     A misdemeanor
Tampering with private           526.050     A misdemeanor
communications
Failure to disperse              525.160     B misdemeanor
                                 KRS 65.870 prohibits any city from regulating
Firearms and weapons             the transfer, ownership, possession, carrying
                                 or transportation of firearms, ammunition or
                                 components of firearms or combinations thereof
Harassing communications         525.080     B misdemeanor
Harassment                       525.070     Violation
Inciting to riot                 525.040     A misdemeanor
Loitering                        525.090     Violation
Obstructing highway or public    525.140     B misdemeanor
passage
Public intoxication              525.100     B misdemeanor
Riot
   First degree               525.020     D felony
   Second degree              525.030     A misdemeanor
Unlawful assembly                525.050     B misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 137: SEXUAL OFFENSES
Editor’s note:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common sexual offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Offense KRS Section Penalty Class
Offense           KRS Section Penalty Class
Indecent exposure 510.150     B misdemeanor
Rape
   First degree510.040     A or B felony
   Second degre510.050     C felony
   Third degree510.060     D felony
Sexual abuse
   First degree510.110     C or D felony
   Second degre510.120     A misdemeanor
   Third degree510.130     B misdemeanor
Sexual misconduct 510.140     A misdemeanor
Sodomy
   First degree510.070     A or B felony
   Second degre510.080     C felony
   Third degree510.090     D felony
   Fourth degre510.100     A misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 138: INCHOATE OFFENSES
Editor’s note:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common inchoate offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
 
Offense               KRS Section Penalty Class
Criminal attempt      506.010     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
Criminal conspiracy   506.040     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
Criminal facilitation 506.080     A or B misdemeanor; D felony
Criminal solicitation 506.030     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
Criminal syndicate    506.120     B or C felony
 
Penalty, see
Ch. 139
CHAPTER 139: GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII
Section
   
139.01   General penalty
§ 139.01 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 140: SMOKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
140.01   Definitions
   
140.02   Prohibition of smoking indoors
   
140.03   Where smoking is not regulated
   
140.04   Non-retaliation and non-waiver of rights
   
140.05   Posting signs
 
   
140.99   Penalty
§ 140.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. A house, apartment or other place of residence used primarily for
conducting activities of daily living, including, without limitation, private
residences, a hospital, hospice or nursing home room. A private residence is a
PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT if it is used as a childcare, adult day care or other
healthcare facility.
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Any device containing or delivering nicotine or
any other substance that can be used in a manner for the purpose of inhaling
the vapor, smoke and/or aerosol from the device. The term includes any such
device, i.e., whether manufactured, distributed, marketed or sold as an e-
cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, e-hookah or vape pen or under any other name or
product descriptor.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space in a structure enclosed from the weather, being
permanent or temporary, enclosed by walls and roof with door(s).
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any location either public or private where an owner,
employer or employee perform their designated duties. This includes, but is not
limited to, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, meeting rooms,
classrooms, employee cafeterias and hallways. A DWELLING is not a place of
employment unless it is used as a childcare, adult day care or health care
facility.
   SMOKING. The use of any device used to ignite or heat tobacco, or any other
substance whether natural or synthetic for the purpose of, i.e., inhalation,
exhalation, burning or carrying any lighted or heated cigar, cigarette, pipe,
hookahs or any other lighted or heated product intended for inhalation, in any
manner or form. SMOKING also includes the use of an electronic smoking device
which creates an aerosol, smoke or vapor in any manner or form, or the use of
any oral smoking device for the purpose of circumventing the prohibition of
smoking in this chapter.
(Ord. 11-2018, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 140.02 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING INDOORS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise noted in division (B) of this section, smoking is
prohibited at places of employment and in enclosed areas.
   (B)   Smoking is prohibited within a reasonable distance of the outside
entrance to, open window of, air intake of a ventilation system in any enclosed
area in which smoking is prohibited by this chapter.
   (C)   Smoking is prohibited in any enclosed areas or vehicles owned, leased,
rented, operated or controlled by the city.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall authorize smoking in any location where
it is otherwise prohibited by statute, ordinance and regulation or by order of
the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 11-2018, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 140.03 WHERE SMOKING IS NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
following area shall by exempt from the provisions of §
140.02: a person’s private dwelling, unless used as a childcare, adult day care
or health care facility.
(Ord. 11-2018, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 140.04 NON-RETALIATION AND NON-WAIVER OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   No employer shall refuse to hire an applicant for employment,
retaliate against or discharge an employee because they exercise their rights
afforded by this chapter to report in an attempt to prosecute a violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   An employee who continues to work in a setting where an employer
allows smoking in violation of this chapter does not waive or otherwise
surrender any legal rights the employee may have against the employer or any
other party.
(Ord. 11-2018, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 140.05 POSTING SIGNS.
   “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking” symbol (consisting of a
pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a
red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted at every entrance/
exit of an enclosed public area.
(Ord. 11-2018, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 140.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   An individual found guilty of violating this chapter is punishable by
a fine not less than $50.
   (B)   An individual who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls a
public place or place of employment and found guilty of violating this chapter
is punishable by a fine of:
      (1)   Not less than $50 for the first offense;
      (2)   Not less than $100 for the second offense; and
      (3)   Not less than $250 for the third and each subsequent offense.
   (C)   An individual who violates this chapter by refusing to extinguish
their smoking material when requested, shall be requested to leave the
establishment and if refused, may also be subject to prosecution for trespass.
   (D)   In addition to the fines established by division (B) of this section,
violation of this chapter by an individual who owns, manages, operates or
otherwise controls a public place or place of employment shall result in the
suspension and/or revocation of any or all permit(s) or license(s) issued for
the premises on which the violation occurred.
   (E)   Violation of this chapter is declared to be a public nuisance, which
may be abated by the city or its designated agents by restraining order,
preliminary and permanent injunction, or other means provided for by law. The
city may recover the reasonable costs of any court enforcement action seeking
abatement of this nuisance.
   (F)   Each day on which a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 11-2018, passed 9-4-2018)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS
      
152.   ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
      
153.   COUNTY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION REGULATIONS
      
154.   SMOKE DETECTORS
      
155.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
156.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
      
157.   VACANT RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of state codes; enforcement agents
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Appeals
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF STATE CODES; ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Title 815, Chapter 7 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Residential Code, as
contained in Title 815, Chapter 7 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations;
the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as contained in Title 815, Chapter 20 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as
contained in Title 815, Chapter 10 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations,
together with any amendments, are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth in this code of ordinances. Copies of the above codes and any amendments
thereto shall be placed on file in the office of the City Clerk where they
shall be available for public inspection during normal business hours.
   (B)   The                          shall be designated as the local
enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code and Residential Code.
   (C)   The                          and all other designated officers, agents
and employees of the city are hereby charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of the Standards of Safety.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the Kentucky Building Code and Kentucky Residential Code
shall be extended to all single-family dwellings in the city which are to be
constructed or remodeled.
§ 150.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B, is
established to hear the appeals.
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Violations of State Building or Residential Code; penalty, see KRS 227.990
(1)
CHAPTER 151: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS
Section
   
151.01   Establishment
   
151.02   Reimbursement of expenses
§ 151.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the Board of Adjustments and Appeals which shall
consist of five members appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City
Council.
§ 151.02 REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES.
   (A)   Each member of the Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall be paid the
sum of $10 for each meeting of the Board for which he or she shall be required
by law to be present as reimbursement of expenses. However, the reimbursement
of expenses shall be limited to 12 meetings of the Board of Adjustments and
Appeals on a calendar year basis from January l through December 31 of each
year.
   (B)   The sum shall be paid from the General Fund of the city directly to
the members of the Board of Adjustments and Appeals, upon proper certification
by the County Planning and Zoning Administrator to the City Clerk that a member
or members of the Board are entitled to reimbursement as provided herein by
virtue of presence at a duly called meeting of the Board.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to notify the County Planning
and Zoning Administrator in the event that the Board of Adjustments and Appeals
has exceeded the number of meetings during a calendar year for which expenses
may be reimbursed.
(Ord. 596-74, passed 3-4-1974; Ord. 17-78, passed 9-5-1978)
CHAPTER 152: ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Application
   
152.04   Electrical inspector
   
152.05   Electrical inspections required
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to reduce hazards from electrical causes by
providing minimum standards for electrical installation in the city.
(Ord. 300.350.l, passed 10-3-1980)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE. National Electrical Code as incorporated in the Kentucky State Uniform
Building Code.
   ELECTRICAL WORK. The installation or repair of electrical wiring,
appliances, apparatus or electrical devices that requires a public utility to
provide new service or changed electrical service to an existing property.
   INSPECTOR. The certified electrical inspector employed by the County Fiscal
Court.
(Ord. 300.350.l, passed 10-3-1980)
§ 152.03 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all electrical installations
and equipment located within the city of a type defined by this chapter.
(Ord. 300.350.l, passed 10-3-1980)
§ 152.04 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered by the electrical inspector
employed by the County Fiscal Court subject to the supervision and advice of
the County Fiscal Court. The electrical inspector shall establish a public
office and a telephone number approved by the County Fiscal Court.
   (B)   The electrical inspector is hereby empowered to disconnect or order
the discontinuance of electrical service to any electrical work or conductors
found to be in a dangerous or unsafe condition or to have been installed
without a permit, or not in compliance with the code. At the time of
discontinuing electrical service, the electrical inspector shall attach a
notice to the electrical work involved, stating the reason for discontinuance
of electrical service to the electrical work, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to remove the notice or reconnect service to the electrical work until
the electrical work is placed in a safe and secure condition and approved by
the electrical inspector.
   (C)   Whenever the electrical inspector shall have cause to suspect, upon
receipt of any citizen’s written complaint, or his or her own investigation,
that any defect exists in any electrical system located on any property within
the city which is subject to the provisions of this chapter, he or she may
demand entry during reasonable hours and after reasonable notice to the owner
or occupant of the property, upon displaying his or her identification as
electrical inspector, for the purpose of discharging his or her official duties
which include the inspection or testing of any electrical installation. If the
electrical inspector determines that defects do exist in the electrical service
to any property, he or she shall have the power to order such remedies as are
required to cure the defects even to the extent of discontinuing electrical
service to the property. If the owner or occupant refuses to admit the
electrical inspector or hinders or interferes with him or her in any manner,
the electrical inspector shall have the power to order the discontinuance of
electrical service to the building or premises involved.
(Ord. 300.350.l, passed 10-3-1980) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 ELECTRICAL INSPECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A) Any person, firm, or corporation installing any electrical work shall
notify the electrical inspector first when rough work is complete and second
when the entire job is complete. The electrical inspector, upon receipt of such
notice, shall inspect the work and if the work conforms with the provisions of
the code, the electrical inspector shall post a notice of approval at or near
such work.
   (B) No electrical wiring shall be covered or concealed until approved by the
electrical inspector. Should the electrical inspector condemn any electrical
work for not being in compliance with the code, notice in writing shall be
given to the person, firm or corporation engaged in the installation of the
work.
   (C) No public utility or any other person, firm or corporation shall provide
electrical service to any electrical work in the city without receipt of prior
approval of the electrical inspector. The electrical inspector is empowered to
order the disconnection of any electrical installation or equipment which has
been connected before his or her approval for service has been given. The
electrical inspector shall, upon request, issue a certificate of final
inspection when any electrical work is completed and found to comply with the
code. No certificate of final inspection shall be issued for any incomplete
work.
(Ord. 300.350.l, passed 10-3-1980) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees or costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 153: COUNTY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Planning and Zoning Commission regulations adopted by reference
   
153.02   Sign permit requirements
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The comprehensive zoning ordinance, subdivision regulations and
comprehensive plan of the county, and the cities of LaGrange, Pewee Valley and
Crestwood, and heretofore passed and approved by the County Planning and Zoning
Commission and the County Fiscal Court and heretofore submitted to the City
Council for its consideration and all subsequent amendments thereto which are
adopted by the city, are hereby adopted in full as if written in full length in
words and figures herein, with the following exception: Section 609 - Dimension
and area requirements in commercial districts, of the comprehensive zoning
ordinance shall be amended to provide that minimum lot area without sanitary
sewers shall be 43,560 square feet rather than none as originally set forth in
the ordinance.
   (B)   A copy of this chapter along with a copy of the comprehensive zoning
ordinance, subdivision regulations, comprehensive plan and the zoning map based
upon these regulations, and copies of all subsequent amendments thereto, shall
be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk and the County Court Clerk’s
office.
(Ord. 602-74, passed 8-20-1974; Ord. 615-76, passed 6-7-1976; Ord. 616-76,
passed 8-2-1976; Ord. 624-77, passed 12-5-1977; Ord. 15-78, passed 9-5-1978;
Ord. 24-78, passed 11-1-1978; Ord. 27-78, passed 12-4-1978; Ord. 11-79, passed
9-10-1979; Ord. 18-80, passed 12-30-1980; Ord. 2-82, passed 4-5-1982; Ord. 8-
82, passed 6-7-1982; Ord. 11-83, passed 8-1-1983; Ord. 7-84, passed 6-4-1984;
Ord. 9-84, passed 7-16-1984; Ord. 2-87, passed 2-2-1987; Ord. 9-87, passed - -
1987; Ord. 3-89, passed 3-6-1989; Ord. 4-90, passed 6-4-1990; Ord. 13-90,
passed 10-1-1990; Ord. 15-93, passed 1-3-1994; Ord. 1-96, passed 3-4-1996; Ord.
8-96, passed 9-5-1996; Ord. 4-98, passed 6-15-1998; Ord. 11-2001, passed 9-4-
2001; Ord. 12-2001, passed 8-8-2001; Ord. 5-2004, passed 5-3-2004; Ord. 13-
2004, passed 8-2-2004; Ord. 22-2004, passed 1-3-2005; Ord. 6-2005, passed 5-16-
2005; Ord. 22-2005, passed 12-5-2005; Ord. 3-2006, passed 6-5-2006; Ord. 24-
2006, passed 10-1-2006; Ord. 6-2007, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 7-2007, passed 3-5-
2007; Ord. 9-2007, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 15-2007, passed 4-2-2007; Ord. 17-
2007, passed 6-4-2007; Ord. 25-2007, passed 10-2-2007; Ord. 1-2008, passed 2-4-
2008; Ord. 2-2008, passed 2-4-2008; Ord. 8-2008, passed 7-7-2008; Ord. 9-2010,
passed 11-1-2010; Ord. 3-2011, passed 4-4-2011; Ord. 11-2011, passed 7-5-2011;
Ord. 25-2013, passed 1-10-2014; Ord. 9-2015, passed 7-6-2015; Ord. 18-2016,
passed 12-5-2016; Ord. 8-2018, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 14-2019, passed 12-2-2019;
Ord. 1-2021, passed 4-5-2021; Ord. 14-2023, passed 9-5-2023; Ord. 19-2023, 11-
6-2023) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 SIGN PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to installing a sign on any private property located in the
city, the property owner shall sign an application for a sign permit. The form
for the application may be obtained at City Hall. The sign permit application
fee shall be $50, regardless of the size of the sign. If the applicant is
someone (or a business) other than the owner, the applicant shall sign the
application for a sign permit and shall provide a copy of the rental or lease
agreement.
   (B)   The proposed sign shall comply strictly with the same requirements
that Oldham County has adopted, and, if the property is located in the Historic
District the applicant shall first apply and gain approval of the city’s
Historic Commission before submitting a sign application to the city. If an
applicant erects a sign in the city without gaining the approval of the city,
the Historic Commission (if applicable) and the county, the city may seek and
be granted an injunction for removal of the sign in Oldham Circuit Court and
all costs of removal, court costs and attorney fees, shall be charged as a cost
to the property owner and the applicant, jointly and severally.
   (C)   A plot plan shall be provided with the application for the sign permit
showing the location of the sign on the property, the distance from the sign to
all lot lines and structures, along with existing streets, driveways and
parking areas. A sketch or photo of the proposed sign showing lettering and
designs to be placed on the sign will also be provided with the application for
the sign permit. No sign shall be placed in any recorded easement. The
applicant shall swear that the information contained in, and provided with, the
application is true. In the event that false information is provided in, or
with, the application, the city’s Code Enforcement Officer or any city police
officer may revoke the sign permit.
   (D)   If an applicant has a sign permit revoked, and a sign has been
erected, the sign shall be removed within ten days after notice of revocation.
If the sign remains after the ten days after notice is given, the city may seek
and be granted an injunction for removal of the sign in Oldham Circuit Court
and all costs of removal, court costs and attorney and paralegal fees, shall be
charged as a cost to the property owner and the applicant, jointly and
severally.
   (E)   Signs for the sale of real estate placed in front of the property,
political signs and yard sale or garage sale signs are not required to be
permitted.
(Ord. 15-2014, passed 8-4-2014) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Fine schedule.
      (1)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation:
and additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
      (2)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
      (3)   Third or subsequent offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days
of citation: an additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus
interest at the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Stop work order. A stop work order may be issued by a Code Enforcement
Officer with any citation and all activities that are alleged to be in
furtherance of violations must cease upon the issuance of the stop work order.
   (C)   Civil action. If a civil action is filed to collect an imposed fine
and/or interest, or to enforce a stop work order, then attorney fees or legal
costs incurred by the city shall be recovered from the violator and awarded to
the city by the court.
(Ord. 1-2014, passed 3-3-2014)
CHAPTER 154: SMOKE DETECTORS
Section
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Smoke detectors required
   
154.03   Type of smoke detectors
   
154.04   Placement of smoke detectors
   
154.05   Responsibility for installation and maintenance of smoke detectors
   
154.06   Enforcement
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building which contains one or more dwelling units or any
rooming unit, rooms or area designated or used for sleeping purposes, either as
a primary use or use on casual occasions. DWELLING shall include rooming
houses, hotels, motels, tourist homes, school dormitories and apartment
buildings.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any group of rooms, located within a building and forming a
single housekeeping unit with facilities which are used or designated to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
   OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly or severally with others shall have:
      (1) All or part of the legal title to any building or dwelling unit, with
or without accompanying actual possession thereof, or shall have all or part of
the beneficial ownership of any dwelling or dwelling unit and a right to
present use and enjoyment thereof, including a mortgage in possession; or
      (2) Charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling unit as owner, or
as executor, administrator, trustee, guardian of the estate or duly authorized
agent of the owner. Any such person thus representing the actual owner shall be
bound to comply with the owner’s obligations under this chapter.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room which is designed or used for sleeping purposes. A
ROOMING UNIT may include a room in a rooming house, hotel, motel, tourist home,
school dormitory or an apartment building which may or may not have some
additional facilities for eating or cooking contained therein.
(Ord. 5-84, passed 5-21-1984)
§ 154.02 SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Subject to such exceptions and conditions for compliance as stated
herein, six months after the effective date of this chapter, smoke detectors
shall be required in all dwellings rented for occupancy.
   (B)   Dwellings subject to the jurisdiction of the Kentucky Building Code
and meeting basic BOCA Building Code fire detection standards shall not be
required to install smoke detectors.
(Ord. 5-84, passed 5-21-1984) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.03 TYPE OF SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   In order to comply with this chapter, only ionization or photoelectric
type detectors approved by a nationally recognized testing laboratory shall be
installed.
   (B)   Smoke detectors with power sources other than a hard wire AC primary
power source may be powered by self-monitored batteries or operated from an
electrical outlet which is fitted with a plug restraining device, provided the
outlet is not controlled by any switch other than the main power supply.
(Ord. 5-84, passed 5-21-1984) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.04 PLACEMENT OF SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   Smoke detectors shall be placed in accordance with applicable National
Fire Protection Association standards. Detectors may be ceiling or wall
mounted, provided that if wall mounted they shall be within 12 inches, but not
closer than six inches, of the ceiling.
   (B)   In a dwelling unit which contains a well-defined sleeping room
separated from the other activity areas of the same unit, the detector shall be
located in the corridor within the unit or interior area giving access to the
rooms used for sleeping purposes. Where sleeping areas are separated or where a
single smoke detector will not adequately service all sleeping areas, there
shall be a smoke detector installed adjacent to each sleeping room area.
   (C)   In a rooming unit, the detector shall be centrally located on the
ceiling.
   (D)   In a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units or any rooming
unit, in addition to the requirements for individual smoke detectors in each
dwelling unit or rooming unit, detectors shall be placed in centrally located
common areas, so that smoke detectors would adequately service all sleeping
areas.
(Ord. 5-84, passed 5-21-1984) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.05 RESPONSIBILITY FOR INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   The owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for supplying and
installing in an operable condition the required detectors and for providing
the manufacturer’s maintenance and testing instructions to a tenant.
   (B)   The owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for maintenance and
testing of detectors, in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions, which
are located in common areas or detectors in rooming units where the tenant
usually has short periods of occupancy, such as hotels, motels or tourist
homes.
   (C)   The tenant shall be responsible for maintaining and testing the
detector, in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions, which are within
his or her exclusive control during the life of the tenancy. The tenant shall
be responsible for notifying the owner when a detector becomes inoperable,
whereafter the owner shall have ten days in which to repair or replace the
inoperable condition of the detector. In the battery-operated type of detector,
battery replacement shall be the responsibility of the tenant.
   (D)   At every change of tenancy, it shall be the duty of the owner to test
and ascertain that those detectors contained in the unit are in operable
condition, and if not, the owner shall be responsible for placing them in
operable condition.
(Ord. 5-84, passed 5-21-1984) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city’s Fire Protection District and its resident Fire Inspector shall be
primarily responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 5-84, passed 5-12-1984)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 155: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Kentucky Building Code
   
155.02   Buildings unfit for habitation
International Property Maintenance Code
   
155.15   Adoption of International Property Maintenance Code
   
155.16   Amendments to International Property Maintenance Code
Enforcement and Administration
   
155.30   Enforcement Official
   
155.31   Complaint procedure
 
   
155.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE.
   Fitness for human habitation, occupancy or use shall be determined in
accordance with the criteria established in the most current edition of the
Kentucky Building Code as adopted by reference in §
150.01. Any building or structure which fails to meet such criteria or has any
defects set forth therein shall be deemed unfit for human habitation, occupancy
or use.
§ 155.02 BUILDINGS UNFIT FOR HABITATION.
   All buildings or structures within the city which are found to be dangerous
or injurious to the health, safety and morals of the occupants of the
structure, the occupants of neighboring structures or other residents of the
city shall be deemed unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use.
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 155.15 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 83A.060(5), the International_Property
Maintenance_Code, 2018 Edition, published by the International Code Council
(https://codes.iccsafe.org/content/IPMC2018P2), as it may be updated and
amended from time to time, shall be and is hereby adopted by the city for the
purpose of regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all
property, buildings and structures within its jurisdiction, by providing the
standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and
conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for
occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for
human occupancy and use, and the demolition of such existing structures as
herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; whereby each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of the 2018 International_Property_Maintenance_Code, the
index of which is attached to Ord. 12-2019 as Exhibit A and incorporated herein
by reference, shall be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk to be
published on the city website (www.lagrangeky.net), are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part of this subchapter as if fully set out in its entirety
in this subchapter, as amended with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in §
155.16.
(Ord. 12-2019, passed 11-4-2019)
§ 155.16 AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The following sections and subsections of the aforesaid International
Property_Maintenance_Code are hereby amended and revised as follows.
   (A)   Section 101.1 Title; References. These regulations shall be known as
the “Property Maintenance Code” of the City of La Grange, Kentucky, and are
hereinafter referred to as “this code”. The term “code official” as used herein
refers to the Ordinance Enforcement Officer, a nonelected city officer
established by §
31.43 of the city’s code of ordinances, also known as the Code Enforcement
Officer under Chapter 35A of the city’s code of ordinances, which section
established the city’s Code Enforcement Board, an administrative body created
and acting under authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act,
pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
   (B)   Section 103.5 Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by
the department in carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be as
indicated in the published schedule prescribed by KRS Chapter 65 and approved
by the City Council.
   (C)   Section 106.4. Violation. Any person who shall violate a provision of
this code, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements of the
code official, may be prosecuted by the code official before the Code
Enforcement Board pursuant to the procedures set out in Chapter 35A of the
city’s code of ordinances or a court of competent jurisdiction. Each day that a
violation continues after notice of violation has been served shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (D)   Section 112.4. Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any
work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that
person is directed to perform by the code official to remove a violation or
unsafe condition, or who shall fail to comply with the requirements of the
notice of violation served by the code official, shall be liable for civil
fines in the amounts set out in §
112.99 of this code, or subject to remedial orders imposed by the city’s Code
Enforcement Board, or both. Further, whenever the code official has reason to
believe that a structure is unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use, the
code official shall follow the complaint procedure set out in §
155.31 of the city’s code of ordinances.
   (E)   Section 112.99. Penalty. [new]. Civil fines which may be imposed by
the city’s Code Enforcement Board or a court of competent jurisdiction,
together with any orders of the Board necessary to remedy a continuing
violation within a specified time to avoid the imposition of all or a part of
any civil fines, shall be as follows:
      (1)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested by
the person charged with the violation, and the person has substantially
complied with the remedial conditions, the penalties set forth in this division
(E)(1) shall apply:
         (a)   First offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of
citation, and an additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation;
         (b)   Second offense within two years. A fine of $200 if paid within
30 days of citation, and an additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of
citation; and
         (c)   Third offense within two years and all others. A fine of $500 if
paid within 30 days of citation, and an additional $250 if not paid within 30
days of citation.
      (2)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Board is
required, the maximum penalties set forth in this division (E)(2) shall apply,
in addition to requiring compliance with any remedial orders necessary to
remedy the violation:
         (a)   First offense. A fine of $200 if paid within 30 days of final
orders, and an additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of final orders;
         (b)   Second offense within two years. A fine of $400 if paid within
30 days of final orders, and an additional $200 if not paid within 30 days of
final orders; and
         (c)   Third offense within two years and all others. A fine of $1,000
if paid within 30 days of final orders, and an additional $500 if not paid
within 30 days of final orders.
      (3)   The Code Enforcement Board or an assigned hearing officer under KRS
65.8829 may waive all or any portion of a penalty for a violation if it is
determined that such waiver will promote compliance with the ordinances in
issue, the primary purpose of this section being to affect compliance with
established property maintenance standards.
   (F)   Fees and costs. The Code Board or court may award attorney fees and
costs incurred for enforcement or remediation, and the city may place liens
upon the property for recovery of same.
   (G)   Section 302.4. Weeds. Premises and exterior property shall be
maintained free from weeds or grass growth in excess of 12 inches. * * * (The
remainder of Section 302.4 is unchanged and shall be incorporated verbatim.)
   (H)   Section 304.14. Insect screens. Every door, window and other outside
opening required for ventilation of habitable rooms, food preparation areas,
food service areas or areas where products to be included or utilized in food
for human consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or stored shall be
supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of minimum 16 mesh per inch, and
every screen door used for insect control shall have a self-closing device in
good working order; provided, however, the code official may waive this
requirement where other approved means of insect control are employed, such as
air curtains or insect repellent fans.
   (I)   Section 602.3. Heat supply (general). Every owner and operator of
occupiable living quarters in the city shall supply am approved heating source
capable of maintaining minimum temperatures of 65 to 68°F in all habitable or
occupiable areas.
   (J)   Section 602.4. Heat supply (occupational). Every indoor occupiable
work spaces shall be supplied with sufficient heat to maintain a minimum
temperature of 65°F during the period the work spaces are occupied, except for
areas requiring special temperatures for business or technical reasons (such as
refrigeration), or areas where persons are engaged in vigorous physical
activity.
(Ord. 12-2019, passed 11-4-2019)
ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.30 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   An Enforcement Official shall be appointed by the Mayor to exercise any
powers as are necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes
and provisions of this chapter, including the following powers in addition to
others herein granted:
   (A)   To investigate the structural conditions in the city in order to
determine which structures therein are unfit for human habitation, occupancy or
use;
   (B)   To administer oaths, affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (C)   (1)   The Enforcement Official shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter, and he or she, or his or her duly authorized representative upon
presentation of proper identification to the owner, agent or tenant in charge
of that property, may enter any building, structure, dwelling, apartment,
apartment house or premises, during all reasonable hours, except in cases of
emergency where extreme hazards are known to exist which may involve the
potential loss of life or severe property damage in which case the above
limitations shall not apply; and
      (2)   The Enforcement Official shall make or cause to be made inspections
to determine the condition of residential buildings and premises in the
interest of safeguarding the health and safety of the occupants of those
buildings and of the general public. For the purpose of making inspections, the
Enforcement Official, or his or her agent, is authorized to enter, examine and
survey at all reasonable times all residential buildings and premises. The
owner or occupant of every residential building or the person in charge thereof
shall give the Enforcement Official free access to the residential building and
its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of inspections,
examination and survey.
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of any officers, agents, and employees
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of the ordinances; and
   (E)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under the
ordinances to those officers and agents as he or she designates.
§ 155.31 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A) The following complaint procedure shall be followed.
      (1) Whenever a petition is filed with the Enforcement Official by a
public authority or by at least three residents of the city charging that any
structure is unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use, or whenever it
appears to the Enforcement Official that any structure is unfit for human
habitation, occupancy or use, the Enforcement Official shall, if his or her
preliminary investigation discloses a basis for those allegations, issue and
cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest in that structure
a complaint stating the allegations in that request.
      (2) The complaint shall state that a hearing will be held before a
committee of City Council at a place fixed in the complaint not less than ten
days nor more than 30 days after the serving of the complaint; that the owner
and parties in interest may file an answer to the complaint and appear in
person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the time and place stated in the
complaint; and that the Kentucky Rules of Procedure shall not be controlling to
the hearing.
   (B)   If, after the notice and hearing, the City Council determines that the
structure under consideration is unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use,
according to the standards herein adopted, it shall state in writing these
findings of fact in support of the determination and shall cause to be issued
and served upon the owner thereof by the Enforcement Official an order
requiring the owner, within the time specified, to repair, alter or improve the
structure to render it fit for human habitation, occupancy, or use, or, to
vacate, demolish and remove and/or close the structure.
      (1) If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or
improve the structure to render it fit for human habitation, occupancy or use,
or to vacate, demolish and remove the structure and/or close the structure, the
Enforcement Official may cause the structure to be repaired, altered, or
improved, or to be vacated, demolished, removed and/or closed. The Enforcement
Official may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any structure so
closed, a placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human
habitation, occupancy, or use; the use or occupation of this building for human
habitation, occupancy or use, is prohibited and unlawful.”
      (2) If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
structure the Enforcement Official may cause that structure to be removed or
demolished.
      (3) The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition shall be a lien upon the real
property upon which cost was incurred. If the structure is removed or
demolished by the Enforcement Official, he or she shall sell the materials of
the structure and shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of the
removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the
Circuit Court by the Enforcement Official, shall be secured in a manner as may
be directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by the court to the persons
found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of the court.
      (4) When the Enforcement Official has condemned as unfit for human
habitation, occupancy or use, any structure in accordance with this chapter and
has ordered same to be vacated, he or she may, upon ten days’ notice to the
occupants, apply to the appropriate district court for an order of eviction
directing the Sheriff to remove the occupants and their belongings from the
structure.
      (5) Complaints or orders issued by the Enforcement Official pursuant to
this chapter shall be served upon persons either personally or by certified
mail; however, if the whereabouts of the person is unknown and cannot be
ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, or the person is so
conducting himself or herself as to avoid service personally or by certified
mail, and the Enforcement Official makes an affidavit to that effect, service
of the complaint or order shall be by newspaper publication for three
successive weeks pursuant to KRS Chapter 424. A copy of the complaint or order
shall be posted in a conspicuous place on premises affected by the complaint or
order, and shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk wherein the
structure is located.
   (C) Any person affected by an order issued by the Enforcement Official as a
result of the hearing held before City Council, as described in division (B) of
this section, may, within 30 days after the posting and service of the order,
petition the circuit court for an injunction restraining the Enforcement
Official pending the final disposition of the cause. Hearings shall be held by
the court on that petition within 20 days, or as soon thereafter as possible.
In all proceedings the findings of the Enforcement Official as to facts, if
supported by evidence, shall be conclusive.
(Ord. 19-2014, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner of any structure determined to be unfit under this chapter
who shall fail to comply with any notice or order to repair, vacate, or
demolish a structure given by the Enforcement Official under this chapter shall
be guilty of a violation and upon conviction shall be fined as set forth in §
150.99.
   (B)   The occupant or lessee in possession who fails to comply with any
notice to vacate and who fails to repair a building in accordance with any
notice given as provided for in this chapter shall be guilty of a violation and
upon conviction shall be fined as set forth in §
150.99.
   (C)   Every day a failure to comply continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
CHAPTER 156: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
   
156.01   Purpose and declaration of public policy
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Historic District Commission
   
156.04   Powers and duties of the Commission
   
156.05   Nominations to the National Register of Historic Places
   
156.06   Designation of landmarks and landmark sites and historic districts
   
156.07   Approval of changes to landmarks, landmark sites and property in
historic districts
   
156.08   Conformity with the certificate of appropriateness
   
156.09   Maintenance and repair of landmarks and landmark sites and property in
historic districts
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 PURPOSE AND DECLARATION OF PUBLIC POLICY.
   (A)   The City Council finds that buildings and neighborhoods having
historic, architectural or cultural interest and value have been neglected,
altered or destroyed notwithstanding the feasibility and desirability of
preserving and continuing the use of such buildings and neighborhoods and
without adequate consideration of the irreplaceable loss to the public.
   (B)   The Council finds that the historic character of the city is of vital
importance in maintaining the economy of the city and that its historic
buildings and neighborhoods can be preserved, improved and used by means of
appropriate changes.
   (C)   The Council finds that the city has well-established residential and
business districts and that the history of the city is shown today through
buildings representing the activities and events during its growth. The Council
finds that the city has buildings and areas that represent the persons who live
and work or have lived and worked in the city during a period of more than 100
years. It is the finding of the City Council that the distinctive and
significant character of this city can only be maintained by protecting and
enhancing its historic, architectural and cultural heritage and by preventing
unnecessary injury or destruction of its landmarks and historic districts which
are civic and community assets.
   (D)   The Council finds that the federal and state governments have passed
laws to protect and preserve landmarks and historic districts, that some of
these laws provide incentives for historic preservation, and that the National
Historic Preservation Act was amended in 1980 to establish a Certified Local
Government Program creating a new federal-state-local partnership to encourage
the efforts by cities to protect and preserve their landmarks and historic
districts.
   (E)   The Council finds that this chapter benefits all the residents of the
city and all the owners of property.
   (F)   The Council finds that individual historic preservation projects have
already been undertaken in the city and that this chapter will encourage
additional preservation work that will be important in achieving the goals of
the city.
   (G)   The City Council declares as a matter of public policy that the
preservation, protection and use of landmarks and historic districts is a
public necessity because they have a special character or a special historic,
architectural or cultural interest and value and thus serve as visible
reminders of the history and heritage of this city, state and nation. The
Council declares as a matter of public policy that this chapter is required in
the interest of the health, prosperity, safety, welfare and economic well-being
of the people.
   (H)   The purpose of this chapter is to effect the goals as set forth in the
above declarations of public policy and specifically, but not exclusively to:
      (1)   Accomplish the preservation, protection and use of historic
districts, landmarks and landmark sites having a special character or special
historic, architectural or cultural interest and value to this city, state and
nation;
      (2)   Stabilize and improve property values in such districts and the
city as a whole;
      (3)   Foster civic pride in the value of notable accomplishments of the
past;
      (4)   Strengthen the economy of the city;
      (5)   Protect and enhance the city’s attractions to residents, tourists
and visitors and serve as a support and stimulus to business; and
      (6)   Enhance the visual and aesthetic character, diversity and interest
of the city.
(Ord. 7-89, passed 7-3-1989)
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT PROGRAM. A government program meeting the
requirements of the National Historic Preservation Amendments Act of 1980 (Pub.
L. No. 96-515) and the implementing regulations of the U.S. Department of the
Interior and the Kentucky Heritage Council.
   COMMISSION. The LaGrange Historic District Commission.
   DEMOLITION. Any act that destroys in whole or part a landmark or a building
or structure in a historic district or on a landmark site.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area meeting one or more of the criteria contained in
§
156.06(E).
   LANDMARK. A building, structure or site meeting one or more of the criteria
contained in §
156.06(E).
   LANDMARK SITE. The land on which a landmark and related buildings and
structures are located and the land that provides the grounds, the premises or
the setting for a landmark.
   PROPERTY. All structures including fences and buildings but does not pertain
to landscaping.
(Ord. 7-89, passed 7-3-1989; Ord. 25-2005, passed 1-3-2006)
§ 156.03 HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established the city’s Historic District Commission.
The Commission shall consist of no less than five or more than 12 members who
are property owners of the city who have demonstrated knowledge of or interest
in the preservation of historical and architectural landmarks. When the
Commission reviews an issue that is normally evaluated by the member of a
recognized or licensed professional and that field is not represented on the
Commission, the Commission shall seek expert advice, before rendering its
decision. Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, but they
shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of their duties in
accordance with the rules adopted by the Commission. All funds received by the
Commission either in the form of grants or donations, will be received and
disbursed by the City Clerk.
   (B)   The members shall be selected, if possible, from the following
organizations or professions, and shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved
by City Council members:
      (1)   Licensed real estate agent;
      (2)   Architect;
      (3)   Member from the Chamber of Commerce;
      (4)   Member from the Oldham County Historical Society;
      (5)   Members representing the areas designated in the National Register
of Historic Places;
      (6)   Member representing the downtown business district of the city;
      (7)   A City Council member; and
      (8)   An attorney with interest and/or experience in preservation law.
   (C)   Appointments to the Commission shall, whenever possible, be consistent
with the above guidelines as to individual membership. Whenever possible,
appointments should be made primarily from the above listed organizations, but
when nominees are not available from such organizations, then the Mayor and
City Council have the right to nominate other interested individuals.
   (D)   The initial terms of office of the members shall be three years,
except the terms of two members of the original Commission shall expire after
two years and the terms of two members of the original Commission shall expire
after one year. Each member shall serve until the appointment and qualification
of his or her successor. When a vacancy occurs during a term of office, the
Mayor and City Council shall fill it within 60 days, and the person selected
shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (E)   The Commission shall keep accurate attendance figures and report
annually in the attendance of members. In the event that any member of the
Commission is absent from more than one-third of the regularly scheduled
meetings, the Commission reserves the right to reconsider such Commission
member’s appointment and recommend to the Mayor and City Council to replace
such Commission member for the reason of excessive absenteeism. Such
replacement shall be consistent with the general appointive guidelines of this
section.
   (F)   No member of the Commission shall vote on any matter that may affect
the property, income or business interests of that member.
   (G)   Members of the Commission may be reappointed for consecutive terms.
After the initial appointments, all appointments shall be made for a term of
two years.
   (H)   The Commission shall each year elect members to serve as Chairperson,
Vice-Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer. The Secretary of the Commission
shall be elected by the Commission, but need not be a member of the Commission.
The Secretary will keep full minutes of all meetings and, upon approval by the
Commission, will file said minutes with the City Clerk who will file and
maintain them in a manner similar to that provided for minutes of meetings and
any of the Commission’s other records. The Chairperson shall preside at the
meetings of the Commission and shall be the spokesperson for the Commission. In
his or her absence, the Vice-Chairperson shall perform these duties. The
Secretary shall prepare the minutes of the Commission’s meetings which shall be
available for public inspection.
   (I)   The Commission shall submit an annual report of its activities to the
Mayor and City Council.
   (J)   A majority of the members of the Commission will constitute a quorum,
empowered to conduct the Commission’s business.
   (K)   The Commission will adopt a set of bylaws for the transaction of its
business. The regular Historic District Commission meeting shall be conducted
on the second Tuesday night of each month, unless a holiday shall fall on a
regular meeting night, at which time the meeting shall be held on the next
regular weekday which is not a holiday. The meeting shall begin at 7:00 p.m. at
the James Beaumont Community Center, second floor.
   (L)   All meetings of the Commission will be open to the public and a public
record will be kept of the Commission’s resolutions, proceedings and actions.
(Ord. 7-89, passed 7-3-1989; Ord. 11-2005, passed 7-5-2005; Ord. 14-2013,
passed 8-5-2013; Ord. 6-2014, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 156.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Historic District Commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
      (1)   Conducting a survey of historic buildings and areas and preparing a
plan for their preservation;
      (2)   Recommending to the City Council the designation of historic
districts and individual landmarks and landmark sites, but limited to, those as
designated by the survey conducted for the National Register of Historic
Places;
      (3)   Any rules and regulations necessary to carry out its functions
under the provisions of this chapter shall be recommended by the Commission for
approval by the Mayor and City Council;
      (4)   Promote public interest in the purposes of this chapter;
      (5)   Recommending to City Council written guidelines for making exterior
changes to designated property and for undertaking new construction on
designated property;
      (6)   The Commission shall be empowered to issue a certificate of
appropriateness upon a majority vote of a quorum. It shall be signed by the
Chairperson (or Vice-Chairperson) and Secretary;
      (7)   Regulating alterations visible to the public that are proposed for
designated property; regulating demolitions, relocations and new construction
involving designated property based on the guidelines set forth in this
chapter;
      (8)   Working with and advising the federal state, and county governments
and other parts of the city government;
      (9)   Advising and assisting property owners and other persons and groups
including neighborhood organizations who are interested in historic
preservation; and
      (10)   Encouraging and undertaking where necessary the publication of
uniform and complementary maps, brochures and descriptive material about such
landmarks, landmark sites and preservation districts and the placing of
historical markers.
   (B)   The Commission may initiate and encourage plans for the preservation
and rehabilitation of individual historic buildings. The Commission shall, on a
regular basis, give recognition to owners and tenants who maintain or
rehabilitate their historic buildings with care and thus contribute to the
preservation of the history of the city.
   (C)   In making its survey of historic buildings and areas, the Commission
shall conduct this work in accordance with the guidelines of the Kentucky
Heritage Council. The Commission shall provide that its survey and preservation
plan shall be maintained and continued. The Commission shall use the
preservation plan to assist the city and county in their overall planning
efforts.
   (D)   The Commission shall prepare comments on the relationship between
LaGrange Historic Districts and landmarks and plans for redevelopment projects.
These comments shall include suggestions on how to link the new and old
buildings.
   (E)   The Commission shall adopt and make public rules for the transaction
of its business and shall hold at least four public meetings annually and
special public meetings when necessary. All meetings shall have a previously
available agenda and shall comply with the Kentucky Open Meetings Statute, KRS
61.805. A majority of quorum of the membership shall be required for decisions
involving historic buildings and areas.
   (F)   In the development of the Certified Local Government Program, the city
may ask the Commission to perform other responsibilities that may be delegated
to the city under the National Historic Preservation Act.
(Ord. 7-89, passed 7-3-1989)
§ 156.05 NOMINATIONS TO THE NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES.
   (A)   To participate in the Certified Local Government Program, the city
shall initiate all local nominations to the National Register of Historic
Places and shall request the Mayor and City Council and the Historic District
Commission to submit recommendations on each proposed nomination to the
National Register. The Mayor, City Council and the Commission shall obtain
comments from the public that shall be included in their National Register
recommendations. Within 60 days of the receipt of a nomination from a private
individual or the initiation of a nomination by the city, the city shall inform
the Kentucky Heritage Council and the owner of the property of the two
recommendations regarding the eligibility of the property. If the Mayor, City
Council and the Commission do not agree, both options shall be forwarded in the
city’s report. If the Mayor, City Council and the Commission recommend that a
property not be nominated, the Kentucky Heritage Council shall inform the
property owner, the Kentucky Heritage Preservation Review Board and the State
Historic Preservation Officer, and the property will not be nominated unless an
appeal is filed with the State Historic Preservation Officer.
   (B)   If the Mayor, City Council and the Commission agree that a property
should be nominated or if any of them feel that a property should be nominated,
the nomination will receive a preliminary review by the Kentucky Historic
Preservation Review Board. The Review Board shall make a recommendation to the
State Historic Preservation Officer who decides whether to forward the
nomination to the U.S. Secretary of the Interior who shall make the decision on
listing the property on the National Register. The Mayor, City Council and the
Commission or the property owner may appeal the final decision by the State
Historic Preservation Officer.
(Ord. 7-89, passed 7-3-1989)
§ 156.06 DESIGNATION OF LANDMARKS AND LANDMARK SITES AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The City Council and/or property owner may request the Historic
District Commission to study his or her building in order to make a
recommendation on whether it qualifies for designation as a landmark and
landmark site. Each designation of a landmark shall include the designation of
a landmark site.
   (B)   The Commission shall assemble information about a property or district
being considered for designation and shall schedule a public hearing on the
proposed designation. Prior to the hearing the Chairperson or other members of
the Commission may have an individual meeting with an owner or a tenant of a
building under construction for designation as a landmark or as a part of a
historic district. The purpose of these meetings shall be to explain the
provisions of this chapter and to answer questions about how a designation
would affect the owner or tenant. Prior to the hearing the Commission may hold
an educational meeting in an area or neighborhood under consideration in order
to explain the provisions of this chapter and to answer questions.
   (C)   Advertised notice of the public hearing shall be given, including
conspicuous posting on the property and publication pursuant to KRS Chapter 424
in the proposed district for 14 consecutive days immediately prior to the
hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be given at least 14 days in advance of
the hearing by first class mail to the owners of property under consideration
and the owners of all adjoining property. Written notice shall be considered
sufficient when it is mailed to the person listed as owner in the records
maintained by the Property Valuation Administrator.
   (D)   Before its first public hearing on a designation, the Commission shall
recommend to the Mayor and City Council and gain approval for general
guidelines that will apply to the city’s landmarks and historic districts and
will assist owners in the preservation and rehabilitation of their property.
The general guidelines shall include the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards
for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings and may
include other guidelines that will apply to all designated property in the
city. In its guidelines and in its decisions the Commission shall not limit new
construction to any one architectural style but shall seek to preserve the
character and integrity of the landmark or the historic district. The
Commission may expand or amend the guidelines provided it holds a public
hearing on the changes and submits the proposed changes to the Mayor and City
Council for approval.
   (E)   A landmark or historic district shall qualify for designation when it
meets one or more of the following criteria which shall be discussed in a
Commission report making its recommendations to the Mayor and City Council:
      (1)   Its value as a reminder of the cultural or archaeological heritage
of the city, state or nation;
      (2)   Its location as a site of a significant local, state or national
event;
      (3)   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the development of the city, state or nation;
      (4)   Its identification as a work of a master builder, designer or
architect whose individual work has influenced the development of the city,
state or nation;
      (5)   Its value as a building that is recognized for the quality of its
architecture and that retains sufficient elements showing its architectural
significance;
      (6)   Its distinguishing characteristics of an architectural style
valuable for the study of a period, method of construction, or use of
indigenous materials;
      (7)   Its character as a geographically definable area possessing a
significant concentration of buildings or structures united by past events or
by its plan or physical development; or
      (8)   Its character as an established and geographically definable
residential neighborhood or business district, united by culture, architectural
style or physical plan and development.
   (F)   After evaluating the testimony at its public hearing, survey
information and other material it has assembled, the Commission shall make its
recommendation to the Mayor and City Council with a written report on the
property or area under consideration. In its report the Commission may set
goals for a proposed historic district in order to encourage appropriate work
in the district.
   (G)   The Oldham County Joint Planning and Zoning Commission shall report to
the Mayor and City Council on the relationship between the proposed designation
and any existing or proposed plans for development of the city. The Planning
Commission’s comments shall consider how the proposed designation may affect
the community’s zoning ordinance, zoning district map and comprehensive plan.
   (H)   The Mayor and City Council shall approve, modify or disapprove the
proposed designation within 60 days after receiving the recommendation from the
Commission.
   (I)   The Commission shall notify each owner of the decision relating to his
or her property and shall arrange that the designation of property as a
landmark or as a part of a historic district be recorded in the land records of
the county. The Commission shall also give notice of the decision to the
government offices in the city and county which shall retain them for future
reference.
   (J)   The amendment or recision of any designation shall be accomplished
through the same steps as were followed in the original designation.
   (K)   The applicant may appeal a decision on a certificate of
appropriateness issued by the Historic District Commission to the Code
Enforcement Board, and all of the rules and procedures provided in the Code
Enforcement Board ordinance shall apply, including the right to an appeal to
District Court.
(Ord. 7-89, passed 7-3-1989; Ord. 3-92, passed 4-6-1992; Ord. 25-2005, passed
1-3-2006; Ord. 2-2016, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 156.07 APPROVAL OF CHANGES TO LANDMARKS, LANDMARK SITES AND PROPERTY IN
HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   A certificate of appropriateness from the Historic District Commission
shall be required before a person may undertake the following actions affecting
a landmark, a landmark site or a property in a historic district;
      (1)   Alteration or restoration of the exterior part of a structure that
is facing a street;
      (2)   New construction;
      (3)   Demolition; or
      (4)   Relocation.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for any designated property unless
an approved certificate of appropriateness or proper waiver form is submitted
to the building official as part of the permit application.
   (C)   When a person wishes to undertake an exterior alteration visible to
the street affecting a landmark, a landmark site or a property in a historic
district or when a person wishes to undertake new construction, a demolition or
a relocation affecting a landmark, a landmark site or a property in a historic
district, that person shall apply to the Commission for a certificate of
appropriateness. This application is required even when the proposed work does
not require a building permit. The applicant shall provide, where applicable,
drawings of the proposed work, photographs of the existing building, structure
or site and adjacent properties, and information about the building materials
to be used.
   (D)   In the event work is being performed without the required certificate
of appropriateness and upon recommendation from the Commission, the Chief of
Police or his or her designee shall issue a stop work order. All work shall
cease on the designated property. No additional work shall be undertaken as
long as such stop work order shall continue in effect. The Commission shall
meet with the owner or tenant to resolve the problem. The city may apply in
Circuit Court for an injunction to enforce its stop work order.
   (E)   The Commission shall hold a public hearing on each certificate of
appropriateness within 30 days after a completed application is received by the
Commission unless it meets those listed for staff approval in the guideline
book. The Commission shall make a decision on the application within ten days
after the public hearing. The Commission shall approve or disapprove each
application, and it shall give its reasons for its decision using the criteria
contained in this section and in its guidelines. The Commission may suggest
modifications to an application and may then approve a certificate of
appropriateness providing for revisions in the plans submitted. If the
Commission fails to decide on an application within the specified time period,
the application shall be deemed approved unless the applicant and the
Commission have agreed in writing to an extension. Applicants shall be given
notice of the public hearings and meetings relating to their application and
shall be informed of the Commission’s decision. When an application has been
approved, the applicant shall be given a certificate of appropriateness.
Advertised notice of the hearing shall be given, including conspicuous posting
on the property pursuant to §
156.06(C).
   (F)   In making a decision on an application, the Commission shall use its
guidelines. The Commission shall consider: the effect of the proposed work on
the landmark, the landmark site, or the property in the historic district upon
which such work is to be done; and the relationship between such work and other
buildings and structures on the landmark site or other property in the historic
district. In evaluating the effect and the relationship, the Commission shall
consider historical and architectural significance, architectural style,
design, texture and materials. The certificate from the Commission shall not
relieve the property owner from complying with the requirements of other state
and local laws and regulations.
   (G)   In making a decision on an application, the Commission shall be aware
of the importance of finding a way to meet the current needs of the applicant.
The Commission shall also recognize the importance of approving plans that will
be reasonable for the applicant to carry out. Before an applicant prepares his
or her plans, he or she may bring a tentative proposal to the Commission for
its comments. The Commission shall prepare a list of routine alterations that
shall receive immediate approval without a public hearing when an applicant
complies with the specifications of the Commission. A certificate of
appropriateness shall not be required for the painting of the building.
   (H)   When considering an application to demolish a landmark, building or
structure on a landmark site, or a building or structure in a historic
district, the Commission shall follow the guidelines approved by the Mayor and
City Council. The Commission may negotiate with the applicant to see if an
alternative to demolition can be found. After its public hearing, the
Commission may decide that a building or structure in a historic district or on
a landmark site may be demolished because it does not contribute to the
historic district or to the landmark. On all other demolition applications, the
Commission shall study the question of economic hardship for the applicant and
shall determine whether the landmark or the property in the historic district
can be put to reasonable beneficial use without the approval of the demolition
application. In the case of an income producing building, the Commission shall
also determine whether the applicant can obtain a reasonable return from his or
her building. The Commission may ask applicants for additional information to
be used in making these determinations. If economic hardship or the lack of a
historic district can be put to reasonable beneficial use without the
application but work with the applicant to try and find a reasonable solution
to the issue. If economic hardship or the lack of a reasonable return is not
proved, the Commission shall deny the demolition application unless the
Commission finds grounds to grant the demolition application under the points
contained in §
156.06(F).
   (I)   When an applicant wishes to move a landmark, a building or structure
on a landmark site, or a building or structure in a historic district or when
an applicant wishes to move a building or structure to a landmark site or to a
property in a historic district, the Commission shall consider: the
contribution the building or structure makes to its present setting; whether
there are definite plans for the site to be vacated; whether the building or
structure can be moved without significant damage to its physical integrity;
and the compatibility of the building or structure to its proposed site and
adjacent properties. These considerations shall be in addition to the points
contained in §
156.06(E).
   (J)   The applicant may appeal a decision on a certificate of
appropriateness within 30 days of issuance by the Historic District Commission
to the Board of Adjustments and Appeals, where the rules of procedure for
administrative appeals shall apply, and may appeal a decision of the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals to the Oldham Circuit Court within 30 days of the
Board's decision, otherwise the decision shall be deemed final and
unappealable. The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to hear
violations of the Historic Preservation Ordinance as provided in §
35A.07.
   (K)   When applying to the Commission for a certificate of appropriateness,
it is the burden of the applicant to provide adequate supportive documentation
and information for the Commission to make an appropriate decision. Where
applicable, the applicant shall provide drawings of the proposed work,
photographs of the existing building, structure or site and adjacent
properties, and information about the building materials to be used. The
Commission will be guided by the information provided by the applicant and the
approved guidelines when making their decision.
   (L)   The Commission will treat all applicants fairly and impartially. If a
conflict of interest, or perceived conflict of interest exists for a Commission
member, that member will remove himself or herself from the decision making
process. Possible conflicts resulting from ex parte contacts or communication
will be avoided by all Commission members. An ex parte contact or communication
is an oral or written communication that is not on the public record, and of
which other interested parties are not given reasonable prior notice. An
example of an ex parte contact is an interested party discussing an application
with a Commission member outside of a public meeting prior to the application
review.
(Ord. 7-89, passed 7-3-1989; Ord. 25-2005, passed 1-3-2006; Ord. 2-2016, passed
3-7-2016; Ord. -2020, passed 12-3-2020)
§ 156.08 CONFORMITY WITH THE CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   All work performed pursuant to a certificate of appropriateness shall
conform to the provisions of such certificate. It shall be the responsibility
of the Historic District Commission to inspect from time to time any work being
performed to assure such compliance. In the event work is being performed which
is not in accordance with such certificate, the city shall issue a stop work
order. All work shall cease on the designated property. No additional work
shall be undertaken as long as such stop work order shall continue in effect.
The Commission shall meet with the owner or tenant to resolve the problem. The
city may apply in Circuit Court for an injunction to enforce its stop work
order.
(Ord. 7-89, passed 7-3-1989)
§ 156.09 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF LANDMARKS AND LANDMARK SITES AND PROPERTY IN
HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Every person in charge of a landmark and a landmark site or a property
in a historic district shall keep in good repair: all of the exterior portions
of such buildings or structures; and all interior portions thereof which, if
not so maintained, may cause such buildings or structures to deteriorate or to
become damaged or otherwise to fall into a state of disrepair. The purpose of
this section is to prevent a person from forcing the demolition of his or her
building by neglecting it and by permitting damage to the building because of
weather or vandalism. No provision in this chapter shall be interpreted to
require an owner or tenant to undertake an alteration or to restore his or her
building to its original appearance.
   (B)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance may be undertaken without a
certificate of appropriateness provided this work on a landmark, a landmark
site or a property in a historic district does not change its exterior
appearance that is visible to the public. The Historic Districts Commission and
its approved guidelines will determine what is considered ordinary repairs and
maintenance.
   (C)   An owner shall immediately notify the city of emergency conditions
dangerous to life, health or property affecting a landmark, a landmark site or
a property in a historic district, and the owner shall immediately start and
complete the work required to make his or her property safe. In any case where
the city determines that there are emergency conditions dangerous to life,
health or property affecting a landmark, a landmark site or a property in a
historic district, the city shall order the remedying of these conditions
without the approval of the Commission. The city shall promptly notify the
Chairperson of the Commission of the action being taken.
   (D)   The Commission shall request a meeting with a property owner when his
or her landmark or his or her building in a historic district is in poor
repair, and the Commission shall discuss with the owner ways to improve the
condition of his or her property.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall be in addition to all other
provisions of the Kentucky Building Code and/or BOCA Basic/National Existing
Structures Code 1984 requiring buildings and structures to be kept in good
repair.
(Ord. 7-89, passed 7-3-1989; Ord. 25-2005, passed 1-3-2006)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (B)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation; and
additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (D)   Other fees and costs. Nothing in this section will affect the
imposition of attorney fees or legal costs and this section does not repeal the
imposition of the same in prior ordinances or ordinances that may be enacted
and ordained after this section is enacted or ordained.
(Ord. 6-2011, passed 5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 157: VACANT RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY
Section
   
157.01   Purpose
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   Registration
   
157.04   Maintenance
   
157.05   Enforcement
§ 157.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish a vacant
residential property registration and maintenance program as a mechanism to
protect neighborhoods and minimize hazards to persons and property as a result
of the vacancy.
(Ord. 13-2013, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CREDITOR. A federal or state chartered bank, savings bank, savings and loan
association, or credit union, and any entity acting on behalf of the creditor
named in the debt obligation including, but not limited to, servicers.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Real property with one to four dwelling units.
   VACANT. A residential property with no legal resident or tenant. Evidence of
vacancy includes any condition that on its own, or combined with other
conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property
is vacant. Such conditions include, but are not limited to, overgrown or dead
vegetation, accumulation of flyers, mail or trash, disconnected utilities, the
absence of window coverings or furniture, and statements by neighbors, delivery
persons or government employees.
(Ord. 13-2013, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 157.03 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Prior to filing a complaint of foreclosure or executing a deed in lieu
of foreclosure on a residential property located in the city, a creditor shall
inspect the property to determine whether the property is vacant. If the
property is vacant, the creditor shall, on the same day the complaint of
foreclosure is filed or the deed in lieu of foreclosure is executed, register
the property as a vacant property with the City Clerk’s office in which the
property is located for the purpose of minimizing hazards to persons and
property as a result of the vacancy.
   (B)   If a residential property becomes vacant at any time after a creditor
files a complaint of foreclosure or executes a deed in lieu of foreclosure, but
prior to vesting of title in the creditor or a third party, the creditor shall,
within ten business days after obtaining knowledge of the vacancy, register the
property as a vacant property with the city.
   (C)   There shall be a fee of $50 per property registered which shall be
paid by creditor to the city at the time of registration.
(Ord. 13-2013, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 157.04 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Registration of a residential property as a vacant property shall
include the address of the property and the name and contact information of a
person located within the Commonwealth who is authorized to accept service on
behalf of the creditor.
   (B)   If a residential property becomes or remains vacant as provided in §
157.03, but prior to vesting of title in the creditor or any third party, and
the city determines the property is in violation of any ordinance regulating a
nuisance, the city may notify the creditor of the violation by providing notice
of the violation by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the person
identified in division (A) of this section, and may require the creditor to
correct the violation to the extent consistent with the terms of the mortgage.
   (C)   A notice of violation shall include a description of the conditions
that give rise to the violation with the notice of violation and shall provide
a period of not less than 20 days from the creditor’s receipt of the notice for
the creditor to remedy the violation.
(Ord. 13-2013, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 157.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If the creditor fails to remedy the violation within the stated
period, the city may issue a citation and impose fines and/or penalties against
the creditor for violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Any creditor that fails to register vacant residential property with
the city within the time limits stated in this chapter shall be subject to a
civil penalty as follows:
      (1)   First offense. A fine of $50, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $50 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at the
rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly;
      (2)   Second offense. A fine of $100, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $100 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly; and
      (3)   Third offense. A fine of $500, if paid within 30 days of citation;
and additional $500 if not paid within 30 days of citation, plus interest at
the rate of 1% per month, compounded monthly.
   (C)   If a civil action is filed to collect an imposed fine and/or interest
for equitable relief, then attorney fees and/or legal costs incurred by the
city shall be recovered from the violator and awarded to the city by the court.
(Ord. 13-2013, passed 8-5-2013)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ACCEPTANCES
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   BOND ISSUES
      
IV.   CONDEMNATIONS
      
V.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
VI.   EASEMENTS
      
VII.   FRANCHISES
      
VIII.   SALE OF PROPERTY
      
IX.   STREET CLOSINGS
      
X.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
XI.   TAXES
      
XII.   REPEALED ORDINANCES
      
XIII.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
TABLE I: ACCEPTANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Accepting a certain tract of land from W.H. Tuttle and
460      9-30-1958   Margaret Tuttle, his wife, as a part of Jefferson Street,
                     also known as Highway #146.
                     Accepting into the city road system the streets known as
10-91    11-4-1991   Washington Avenue in Lakeside Subdivision, and Washington
                     Street, Washington Avenue and Fairlawn Avenue in Lakeside
                     Subdivision.
                     Accepting into the city road system the streets known as
                     Bluegrass Drive and the un-named alley paralleling
9-93     8-2-1993    Bluegrass Drive as shown on the plat of Lakeside
                     Subdivision in Plat Book 1, Page 29, and Plat Book 1, Page
                     39, in the office of the Oldham County Court Clerk.
                     Accepting into the city street system the street known as
12-95    7-3-1995    Colonial Court from its beginning at 4th Avenue to its
                     terminus at Oak Leaf Terrace.
                     Accepting into the city road system the portion of Tin-Dor
                     Circle consisting of 14.901 square feet being bounded on
5-99     4-5-1999    the west by Cedar Springs Section 4, Lots 92, 93, 94 and
                     95 and on the North by Cedar Springs Section 1, Lots 13
                     and 14, and on the east by Schultz Construction Co., Inc.,
                     as recorded in Deed Book 477, page 275.
                     Accepting into the city road system Phyllis Lane
15-2000  10-2-2000   consisting of a 30- foot right-of-way shown on the plat of
                     Green Valley Subdivision in Plat Book 2, Page 31.
                     Accepting into the city road system that portion of
17-2018  12-3-2018   Jefferson Street located between Fifth and Sixth Streets,
                     as a dedicated city road.
12-2021  10-4-2021   Accepting into the city road system roads known as Artisan
                     Parkway and Wilmar Court.
                    
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
40    5-4-   Annexation of territory beginning at the southeast corner of South and East
      1901   Streets.
45    9-4-   Annexation of territory beginning at a point in the west side of West Street
      1903   in the center of Jefferson Street.
85    4-10-  Annexation of territory beginning at a point (a stone) in the north line of
      1908   the County Road, the same being an extension of Jefferson Street.
      5-13-  Annexation of territory beginning at a point (a stake) in the present line of
88    1908   the town of LaGrange and 66 feet south of the corner of the city, the point,
             (a stake) being on the property of J.R. Clark.
105   6-18-  An ordinance confirming Ord. 88.
      1908
106   6-18-  An ordinance confirming Ord. 85.
      1908
107.5 7-10-  An ordinance confirming Ord. 40.
      1908
      10-26- Annexation of territory beginning at a stake at the intersection of the north
110   1908   line of the County Road Yager Brothers’ Road and the west line of Main-Cross
             Street extended, a corner of the city.
111   10-26- Annexation of territory beginning at a stake at the intersection of the north
      1908   line of Main Street with the boundary line of the city.
      10-26- Annexation of territory beginning at a stake in the north line of Adams Street
112   1908   as shown on W.Z. Russell’s addition to the city, the point being a corner of
             the city.
113   10-26- Annexation of territory beginning at a stake at the end of the west line of
      1908   West Street, a corner of the city.
114   12-11- An ordinance confirming Ord. 110.
      1908
      8-12-  Annexation of territory beginning at a stake on the north side of Adams Street
173   1912   and east side of Elm Alley, at the end of Elm Alley in W.Z. Russell’s Addition
             to the city.
212   9-7-   De-annexing of territory beginning in the south line of the right-of-way of
      1916   the Louisville & Nashville Railroad at a gate post on the land owned by Peak.
256   8-3-   Annexation of territory beginning at a stake in east side of Fendley Road,
      1922   corner to city and colored cemetery.
257   10-3-  An ordinance confirming Ord. 256.
      1922
372   8-7-   Annexation of territory beginning at a stake in the north line of the old
      1939   Louisville Road at the present city limit opposite the residence of T.A. Hall.
373   10-2-  An ordinance confirming Ord. 372.
      1939
      1-6-   Annexation of territory beginning at a post in the west line of Fourth Street
394   1947   at the northeast corner of the property of F.S. Long, the post marking the
             southeast corner of the Taylor property.
395   2-3-   An ordinance confirming Ord. 394.
      1947
      7-2-   Annexation of territory beginning at the point in the south edge of metal of
435   1956   Kentucky Highway No. 146 where the highway intersects present city limits at
             Franklin Avenue.
436   7-2-   Annexation of territory beginning at a point in Saddler’s Mill Road at rear of
      1956   hospital where the present city limit line intersects Saddler’s Mill Road.
      7-2-   Annexation of territory beginning at a point near the intersection of Proctor
437   1956   Avenue, and at the point where the present city limit line crosses Madison
             Avenue.
      7-2-   Annexation of territory beginning at a point in Fenley Mill Road at a corner
438   1956   of present city limits and being the northeast corner of Greenfield Circle
             Subdivision.
      7-2-   Annexation of territory beginning at the northwest corner of the present city
439   1956   limits, same being a point in Monroe Street at the first alley east of
             Chestnut Street.
      7-2-   Annexation of territory beginning at a point in Jefferson Street at its
440   1956   intersection with the first alley east of Chestnut Street (same point being
             the point where the east city limits crosses Jefferson street).
441   7-2-   Annexation of territory beginning at a point corner to N.M. Boshardt (now
      1956   Aldridge) in the right-of-way of the LaGrange and Jericho Road.
442   7-2-   Annexation of territory beginning at the point in Jericho Road where present
      1956   city limit crosses the road.
443   7-2-   Annexation of territory beginning at a point on the east side of Kentucky
      1956   Highway No. 53 and in the present city limit line opposite Yager Avenue.
      7-2-   Annexation of territory beginning in the south side of Yager Avenue at a point
444   1956   which point is 400 feet west from the intersection of the present city limit
             line and the east right of way of Highway #53 opposite Yager Avenue.
      3-4-   Annexation of territory beginning at the point on the north side of the
446   1957   LaGrange-Jerich o Road where present city limit intersects the road, the point
             being opposite the land of J.A. Head.
447   3-4-   Annexation of territory beginning at a point corner to Clark in the north
      1957   right-of-way line of the LaGrange-Jerich o Road.
      9-3-   Annexation of territory beginning at the point in the south edge of metal of
450   1957   Kentucky Highway No. 146 where the highway intersects present city limits
             which is the west line of Woodlawn Subdivision.
463   12-1-  Annexation of territory beginning in the north line of the city limits of the
      1958   city at the west line of Chestnut Avenue.
      3-6-   Annexation of territory beginning at an iron rod at the east corner of the
510   1967   city limits, being in the south line of the Mo-Vac Company tract, and being on
             the north line of the Jericho Road.
             Annexation of territory on the east side of Kentucky Highway 53 being
      9-11-  described as follows: beginning at a point in the east right-of-way line of
522   1967   Kentucky Highway 53 before relocation said point being the point of
             intersection of the existing city limits at Yeager Avenue with the east right-
             of-way line.
             Annexation of territory beginning at a point in the east right-of-way line of
523   9-11-  Kentucky Highway 53 before relocation the point being the point of
      1967   intersection of the existing city limits at Yager Avenue with the east right-
             of-way line.
      2-5-   Annexation of territory beginning at a point in the present city limits the
529   1968   intersection of the east right-of-way line of Lakeview Avenue, LaGrange Acres
             Subdivision, with the city limits on Hoffman Lane.
      2-5-   Annexation of territory beginning at a point in the existing city limits the
530   1968   point being the point of intersection of the city limits line along Kentucky
             Street with the city limits line west of and parallel to Yeager Avenue.
      2-5-   Annexation of territory beginning at a point in the present city limits, the
531   1968   point being in the north right-of-way line of Kentucky Highway 146 and being
             the southwest corner of Lot 24 Bon Air Subdivision.
      7-2-   Annexing territory west of the city and north of Kentucky Highway 146,
110.1 1973   including portions of Bon Air Subdivision, as shown on James E. Ransom survey
             dated March 3, 1973.
             Annexing territory on the south of the city lying on the border of Moody Lane
110.2 7-2-   on the west and by Kentucky Avenue and Kentucky Highway 146 on the north and
      1973   on the western city limits near Yeager Avenue on the east, as shown on James
             E. Ransom survey dated March 3, 1973.
      7-2-   Annexing territory on the north of the city and lying west of Kentucky Highway
110.3 1973   53 and east of Fendley Mill Road, as shown on James E. Ransom survey dated
             March 3, 1973.
      7-2-   Annexing territory on the northwest of the city lying north of Fendley Mill
110.4 1973   Road and northwest of the existing city limits, as shown on James E. Ransom
             survey dated March 3, 1973.
      4-5-   Annexing two tracts; both tracts to the north of the northeast city limits on
110.6 1976   the west side of Chestnut Avenue and north of Monroe Street, involving Pam-Lar
             Development.
614-  8-2-   Annexing territory on the east side of Chestnut Avenue and north of Monroe
76    1976   Street, beginning at an iron pipe on the east right-of-way line of Water Works
             Lane.
616-  8-2-   Confirmation of Ord. 614-76, passed 8-2-1976.
76    1976
31-78 12-20- Annexing territory on the west side of Kentucky Highway 53, involving the
      1978   Rankin and Tiziani-Bergen property.
      12-20- Annexing territory southeast of the south and east limits of the city and on
32-78 1978   the east side of Kentucky Highway 53 and on the south side of Crystal Drive,
             involving the Crystal Lake Subdivision.
      12-20- Annexing territory north of the city limits on the east side of Kentucky
33-78 1978   Highway 53 and on the south side of Water Works Road, involving Greenwood
             Common Subdivision and Pear Orchard Subdivision.
34-78 12-20- Annexing territory southwest of the city limits on the north side of I-71 and
      1978   on the south side of Yeager Avenue, involving the Mings Corporation property.
      4-2-   Annexing territory northeast of the city limits on the east side of Fort
4-79  1979   Pickens Road and on the north and south sides of Kentucky Highway 146,
             involving the Anaconda Company property.
      10-1-  Annexing territory north of the city limits on the north side of Kentucky
15-79 1979   Highway 146 and on the east and west sides of Fort Pickens Road, involving the
             Jenner Company, Inc. property.
      4-19-  Annexing territory southwest of the city limits on the south side of I-71 and
4-82  1982   the west side of Kentucky Highway 53, as shown on Rankin and Associates survey
             dated October 1981.
14-83 11-21- Annexing Lots 11 and 12, Section No. 2, of Lakeside Subdivision.
      1983
1-84  2-20-  Annexing Lots 11 and 12, Section No. 2, of Lakeside Subdivision.
      1984
12-   11-7-  Annexing two acres in the Lakeside Subdivision.
88C   1988
6-90  7-2-   Annexing territory beginning at the northeasterly most corner of the 40.90
      1990   acre tract conveyed to J.S. Priest.
7-90  7-2-   Annexing lots 107, 108, 112 through 122, 137 through 141 and 143 through 150
      1990   of Lakeside Subdivision.
2-91  5-6-   Annexing territory beginning at the intersection of the east right-of-way line
      1991   of Fort Pickens Road (Kentucky Highway 712).
      3-2-   Annexing territory beginning at a point in the southeasterly line of Water
2-92  1992   Works Road at the common corner of Lot 111 and Lot 112 as shown on the plat of
             Greenwood Common Subdivision.
      7-6-   Annexing territory beginning at a point in the southeasterly line of Water
10-92 1992   Works Road at the common corner of Lots 111 and 112 as shown on the plat of
             Greenwood Common Subdivision.
14-92 9-8-   Annexing the following territory:
      1992
           Lots 16, 17, 18, 19, 41 and 42, Section No. 2 as shown on the plat of Lakeside
             Subdivision as recorded in Plat Book 1, Pg. 29; and
           Lots 14 and 15, Section No. 2 as shown on the plat of Lakeside Subdivision as
             recorded in Plat Book 1, Pg. 29.
             Annexing certain tracts of land described as being Lots 16, 17, 18, 19, 41 and
18-92 1-4-   42, Section 2 and Lots 14 and 15, Section 2, as shown on the plat of Lakeside
      1993   Subdivision as recorded in Plat Book 1, Page 29 of the Oldham County Court
             Clerk’s Office.
      4-5-   Annexing a tract of land beginning at an iron pipe in the southerly right-of-
2-93  1993   way line of Washington Street at its intersection with the southwest right-of-
             way line of Mulberry Alley.
3-93  4-5-   Annexing a tract of land beginning at an iron rod at the northwest corner of
      1993   Bon Air Subdivision in the west line of the corporate limits of the city.
6-94  4-4-   Annexing the following tracts of land:
      1994
           Tract I. Being a tract of land located on the north side of Highway 712 (known
             as Jericho Road) 1/4 mile east of Kentucky Highway 53.
           Tract II. A certain tract of land located on the north side of Kentucky
             Highway 712 and on the southeast side of Taylor Road.
           Tract III. Parcel A: Beginning at a stone for corner on the south side of the
             Louisville-Nash ville Railroad 180 feet from L.M. Larne’s line.
           Tract III. Parcel B: Being a strip of land 571 feet in length and 12 feet in
             width beginning at the southwest property line of the land of W.M. Taylor.
           Tract III. Parcel C: Beginning at the northeast corner of Jake Long’s (now
             Taylor) lot and near the L&N Railroad.
           Tract IV. Vap V-72/S-13A in LaGrange, Kentucky, at the southwest corner of the
             tract described in Deed Book 159, Page 273.
           Tract V. Beginning at the corner of William Coons’ lot (now Standard Oil
             Company) in the county road.
           Tract VI. Beginning at a stake in the north line of Main Street extended
             corner to the L & N Shop lot.
      7-5-   Annexing a tract of land beginning at a point in the existing southerly
10-94 1994   boundary of the city, as annexed in Ord. 592-73, adopted July 2, 1973,
             confirming Ord. 584-73.
17-94 10-3-  Annexing LaGrange Woods Golf Course.
      1994
4-95  5-1-   Annexing the following tracts of land:
      1995
             Tract I. 30.481 acres beginning at a point in the west right-of-way line of
           Kentucky 53 at a corner in the northern line of the Corporate limits of the
             city as shown for J.W. Hall, III, and Deborah L. Hall, his wife, in Deed Book
             451, page 248.
             Tract II. 14.61 acres beginning at a point in the center line of Kentucky 53
           and being a common point with the annexation area of J.W. Hall, III, as shown
             on the Annexation Plat for J.W. Hall, III by Harrison Land Surveying, Inc.,
             dated August 18, 1994.
      5-1-   Annexing a parcel of the William and Frances Allen tract, beginning at a point
7-95  1995   in the existing southerly boundary of the city, as recorded in Deed Book 127,
             page 468.
             Annexing a tract of property, beginning at a point 83.47' in a southeasterly
      2-3-   direction from the northeastern most corner of LaGrange Woods Golf Club
1-97  1997   described in Subdivision Book 47A Block 4 and in the western right-of-way of
             KY 53 thence N 74°37'36" E 40.00' to the northwest corner of a part of the
             tract described in Deed Book 124, Page 599.
      4-7-   Annexing a tract of land beginning at an iron pipe in the southwest right-of-
2-97  1997   way line of Hoffman Lane and being a point in a southeast line of the
             corporate limits of the City of LaGrange.
      6-2-   Annexing a tract of property beginning at a point in an east line of the City
4-97  1997   of LaGrange at the south corner of the land of J.P. and M.B. Westbrook
             (formerly Shannon Acres).
      10-6-  Annexing a tract of property beginning at a point in the south right-of-way
14-97 1997   line of Crystal Drive east of Damon Court (now closed), said point being at an
             angle point in the boundary of the incorporated area of the city.
17-97 11-3-  Annexing the following tracts of land:
      1997
             Tract I. Beginning at an iron pin in the north line of Kentucky Highway 146,
             common to corner of Bessie E. McMakin tract and being north 57 degrees 16
           minutes east 315.65 feet from a concrete marker on the north right-of-way of
             Kentucky Highway 146 at a point common to Oldham County Fair Grounds and
             Bessie E. McMakin.
             Tract II. Beginning at an iron pipe at the northwest corner of parcel conveyed
             to Lee R. Smith and Dorothy D. Smith, his wife, as described in deed dated May
           10, 1967, and recorded in Deed Book 108, Page 568, in the Oldham County Court
             Clerk’s Office, and being the southeast corner of Tract 4 as shown on the plat
             recorded in Deed Book 262, Page 17, in the Clerk’s office.
             Tract III. Being a certain parcel of land located on the northwest side of
           Kentucky Highway 146 approximately 0.2 mile southwest of McMakin Manor in
             Oldham County, Kentucky.
2-98  5-4-   Annexing 167.009 acres beginning at a point at a southwest corner of the
      1998   existing incorporated city in the centerline of Allen Road.
11-98 8-3-   Annexing a 0.94091 acre parcel of land; Thomas D. Toole, a portion of Deed
      1998   Book, page 427 and a portion of Kentucky Highway 712 (Jericho Road).
7-99  6-7-   Annexing 67.403 acres of land located on James Hall property.
      1999
8-99  6-7-   Annexing 163.509 acres of land located on Allen Road and Button Avenue
      1999   properties.
9-99  6-28-  Annexing 40.292 acres of land on Dawkins Road.
      1999
6-    7-5-   Annexing 35.66 acres of land at 611 North Fourth Street.
2000  2000
7-    7-5-   Annexing 0.42 acres of land at 608 Jericho Road.
2000  2000
13-   10-2-  Annexing 59.934 acres of property in the northwest right-of-way of the
2000  2000   southbound lanes of Interstate 71.
14-   10-2-  Annexing 8.570 acres of property west of Allen Road at Interstate 71.
2000  2000
13-   8-8-   Annexing 17.111 acres of property beginning at a point in the east line of
2001  2001   Clifford Lane.
17-   1-7-   Annexing 62.04 acres, more or less, located between Kentucky Highway 53 and
2001  2002   Zale Smith Road.
1-    3-4-   Annexing 0.468 acres of property located east of Kentucky Highway 53 on the
2002  2002   northwest side of Crystal Drive.
9-    8-6-   Annexing 2.867 acres of property.
2002  2002
8-    11-4-  Annexing 7.68 acres of property.
2002  2002
13-   1-6-   Annexing 4.76 acres of property.
2002  2003
4-    7-7-   Annexing 214.25 acres of property.
2003  2003
18-   10-4-  Annexing 85.43 acres of property.
2004  2004
17-   9-21-  Annexing 857.57 acres of property.
2005  2005
19-   12-5-  Annexing 161.84 acres of property.
2005  2005
24-   1-3-   Annexing 54.26 acres of property.
2005  2006
4-    3-6-   Annexing 4.19 and 4.17 acres of property.
2006  2006
18-   7-3-   Annexing 164.241 acres of property.
2006  2006
26-   12-4-  Annexing 271.95 acres of property.
2006  2006
22-   9-4-   Annexing 174.874 acres of property located at Zhale Smith Road and Massie
2007  2007   School Road.
2-    5-5-   Annexing the property presently contiguous to the existing city located at
2010  2010   2100 South State Highway 53.
3-           Annexing the property presently contiguous to the existing city. A portion of
2010  - -    Pine Ridge Road located on west side of Kentucky Highway 53 between Cherry
             Wood Drive and Zhale Smith Road.
12-   8-5-   Annexing property presently contiguous to the existing corporate limits, being
2013  2013   approximately 60.90 acres, located at Zhale Smith and Massie School Roads.
6-    5-6-   Annexing two properties presently adjacent or contiguous with the existing
2024  2024   city, being approximately 3.726 acres located at 1702 and 1704 Zhale Smith
             Road.
            
 
TABLE III: BOND ISSUES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
311      10-7-1929   Providing for the issuance of $30,000 waterworks bonds for
                     construction of a waterworks plant.
315      5-13-1930   Providing for the issuance and sale of $24,000 water
                     bonds.
316      8-6-1930    Providing for the sale of $51,000 waterworks revenue
                     bonds.
344      12-2-1935   Authorizing and providing for the issuance of $36,000
                     waterworks revenue bonds.
367      3-13-1939   Authorizing and providing for the issuance of $34,000
                     waterworks revenue refunding bonds.
406      1-2-1950    Providing for the issuance and sale of $24,000 waterworks
                     bonds.
412      6-5-1950    Authorizing and providing for the issuance of $90,000
                     waterworks revenue bonds.
419      5-5-1952    Authorizing and providing for the issuance of additional
                     $15,000 waterworks revenue bonds.
-        12-1-1957   Authorizing the issuance of $149,000 of water and sewer
                     revenue bond series 1957.
-        6-1-1978    Authorizing the issuance of $425,000 water and sewer
                     revenue bonds, series 1978.
28-78    7-5-1978    Authorizing the issuance of water tower bonds.
-        8-1-1978    Accepting a bid for Columbia Securities, Inc. to purchase
                     water and sewer revenue bond, series 1978.
-        12-4-1978   Amending Ord. 28-78 concerning issuance of watertower
                     bonds.
                     Authorizing the issuance of $300,000 industrial building
9-81     4-20-1981   revenue bonds, series 1981 (Bluegrass Electronic, Inc.
                     Project).
11-81    5-4-1981    Authorizing the issuance of $525,000 industrial building
                     revenue bonds, series 1981 (Jenner Company, Inc. Project).
3-83     3-7-1983    Authorizing issuance of $1,015,000 water and sewer revenue
                     bonds, series 1983.
7-85     9-16-1985   Authorizing the issuance of $2,800,000 industrial building
                     revenue bonds, series 1985 (Ad-Ventures II Project).
                     Authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds,
2-2000   2-22-2000   series of 2000, in the approximate amount of $2,400,000
                     for improvements to LaGrange Woods Golf Course.
                     Authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds,
1-2010   3-1-2010    series of 2010, in the approximate amount of $1,750,000
                     for the Eagle Creek Golf Course.
                     Authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds,
11-2020  12-7-2020   series of 2020, in the aggregate principal amount not to
                     exceed $3,000,000 for Phase 1 of the La Grange Springs
                     Park.
                    
 
TABLE IV: CONDEMNATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing condemnation proceedings, if necessary, to
18-98    11-2-1998   obtain easements for the construction of necessary utility
                     facilities on property annexed between I-71 and Kentucky
                     Highway 146.
                     Authorizing condemnation proceedings to obtain easements
4-99     3-1-1999    for the construction of utility facilities across the open
                     community space of Greenwood Common Subdivision.
                    
 
TABLE V: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
2-81 1-23-  Authorizing contract for purchase of water from Oldham County Water District.
     1981
            Authorizing execution of an agreement with Ad-Ventures II relating to the
6-85 7-15-  acquisition, construction and installation of industrial building facilities
     1985   and related equipment in order to construct hotel facilities and authorizing
            issuance of $2,800,000 of industrial building revenue bonds.
11-  8-2-   Authorizing the execution of the “Interlocal Cooperation Agreement to
93   1993   Establish the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management Association” which the city
            shall be a member of.
4-   4-4-   Approving an interlocal cooperation agreement between the city and the County
2005 2005   of Oldham for the purpose of creating an economic development and job
            opportunities.
5-   3-6-   Approving a lease for the financing of a project; providing for payment and
2006 2006   security of lease.
8-   3-5-   Approving a lease for the financing of a project; providing for the payment
2007 2007   and security of the lease; creating a sinking fund; and authorizing the
            execution of various documents related to the lease.
8-   6-2-   Approving a lease for the financing of a project; providing for the payment
2014 2014   and security of the lease; creating a sinking fund; and authorizing the
            execution of various documents related to the lease.
2-   5-4-   Approving a lease for the financing of a project; providing for the payment
2015 2015   and security of the lease; creating a sinking fund; and authorizing the
            execution of various documents related to the lease.
15-  10-3-  Approving a lease for the financing of a project; provided for the payment and
2016 2016   security of the lease; creating a sinking fund; and authorizing the execution
            of various documents related to the lease.
           
 
TABLE VI: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
5-82     4-19-1982   Granting easement on public streets and right-of-way to
                     LaGrange Water and Sewer Department.
                    
 
TABLE VII: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
597-74   5-6-1974    Creating franchise for the sale and distribution of
                     electrical energy.
16-80    9-8-1980    Creating a CATV franchise.
18-81    12-7-1981   Awarding three-year garbage collection franchise to Tyler
                     Sanitation, Inc.
20-81(c) 12-21-1980  Amending CATV franchise Ord. 16-80.
21-81(c) 1-4-1982    Awarding a non-exclusive CATV franchise to Oldham County
                     Cable Television Company, Inc.
4-84(c)  4-2-1984    Consenting to transfer and assignment of CATV franchise
                     granted in Ord. 21-81(c) to American Cable TV Investor II.
12-84    9-17-1984   Creating a three-year garbage collection franchise and
                     awarding franchise to Tyler Sanitation, Inc.
                     Consenting to transfer and assignment of CATV franchise by
3-86(c)  5-22-1986   American Cable TV Investors II to Insight Communications
                     Company, L.P.
3-88     5-22-1988   Awarding three-year garbage collection franchise to Tyler
                     Sanitation, Inc.
9-88C    8-1-1988    Transferring garbage collection franchise from Tyler
                     Sanitation, Inc. to BFI Waste Systems.
6-91     8-5-1991    Awarding two-year garbage franchise to Browning-Ferris
                     Industries.
1-93     4-5-1993    An amendment to Ord. 16-80 located in this table.
8-94     4-4-1994    Granting franchise to Kentucky Utilities Company.
9-95     7-3-1995    Awarding two-year garbage franchise to Rumpke of Kentucky,
                     Inc.
15-97    9-8-1997    Awarding a two-year garbage franchise to Waste Management
                     of Kentucky, Inc.
11-99    6-28-1999   Granting an exclusive two-year garbage franchise to Rumpke
                     of Kentucky, Inc.
4-2001   6-4-2001    Amending Ord. 11-99, offering to extend the term of the
                     garbage franchise.
12-2002  10-7-2002   Awarding a two-year garbage franchise to Rumpke of
                     Kentucky, Inc.
14-2004  9-7-2004    Awarding a two-year garbage franchise to Industrial
                     Disposal.
19-2013  10-7-2013   Creating an electric facilities franchise and providing
                     for the sale of that franchise.
                    
 
TABLE VIII: SALE OF PROPERTY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
240.1    5-5-1975    Declaring water reservoirs as surplus property and
                     authorizing lease agreement with Johnny Russell, Inc.
240.2    - -         Affirming and ratifying Ord. 240.1.
                    
 
TABLE IX: STREET CLOSINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Closing a portion of Main Street from the crossing at
264      7- -1923    Blaydes Corner to the crossing at Ballard’s Store, for
                     repair and reconstruction.
545      11-4-1968   Closing a portion of an alley and a portion of Bluegrass,
                     located in Lakeside Subdivision.
565      4-5-1971    Closing a portion of Sixth Street between Old Jefferson
                     Street and Madison Street.
620.1    7-1-1974    Authorizing Circuit Court action to close a portion of
                     Sixth Street.
                     Closing a portion of Sixth Street pursuant to Oldham
620.2    10-7-1974   County Circuit Court judgment dated September 19, 1974
                     (Order Book 37, pages 61 and 62).
609-75   12-10-1975  Authorizing Circuit Court action to close Cedar Alley.
                     Closing Cedar Alley pursuant to Oldham County Circuit
620.4    4-5-1976    Court judgment dated March 8, 1976 (Order 39, pages 155
                     and 156).
6-79     4-23-1979   Closing Burch Alley and Cleveland Avenue.
7-79     4-23-1979   Closing Spring Street.
3-82     4-5-1982    Closing Chestnut Alley.
18-84    12-3-1984   Closing a portion of Main Street extending between Sixth
                     Street and Court Alley and the Pollard property.
11-91    11-4-1991   Closing the following streets:
                   Washington Avenue as shown on plat of Lakeside
                     Subdivision, Section 2, recorded in Plat Book 1, Pg. 29;
                   Washington Street, as shown on Lakeside Subdivision,
                     Section 2, revised, as shown on Plat Book 1, Page 39; and
                     Washington Avenue, as shown on Lakeside Subdivision,
                   Section 2, revised, as recorded in Plat Book 1, Pg. 39;
                     and Fairlawn Avenue, as shown on Lakeside Subdivision,
                     Section 2, revised, as recorded on Plat Book 1, Pg. 39.
                     Bluegrass Drive and the un-named alley paralleling
                     Bluegrass Drive as shown on the plat of Lakeside
10-93    8-2-1993    Subdivision recorded in Plat Book 1, Page 29 and Plat Book
                     1, Page 39 in the office of the Oldham County Court Clerk
                     are hereby closed.
                     Closing a portion of Tin-Dor Circle consisting of 14,901
                     square feet being bounded on the west by Cedar Springs
6-99     4-5-1999    Section 4, Lots 92, 93, 94 and 95 and on the north by
                     Cedar Springs Section 1 Lots 13 and 14 and on the East by
                     Schultz Construction Co., Inc. as recorded in Deed Book
                     477, Page 275.
                     Closing Phyllis Lane consisting of a 30- foot right-of-way
16-2000  10-2-2000   on the plat of Green Valley Subdivision in Plat Book 2,
                     Page 31.
7-2005   8-1-2005    Closing a public way known as Heights Land and confirming
                     the relocation of Eagle Heights Lane.
6-2010   7-6-2010    Closing a portion of an alley as shown on the plat of the
                     Joseph Sauer Home Place.
12-2017  8-7-2017    Closing and vacating part of Poplar Alley situated between
                     Second and Third Streets.
12-2022  10-3-2022   Closing a portion of Third Avenue south of the railroad
                     tracks to Washington Avenue.
                    
 
TABLE X: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
-    4-2-   Rezoning certain property located on the south side of Adams Street owned by
     1973   South LaGrange, Inc., from B-2 to R-2.
-    6-3-   Rezoning certain property located on the south side of Adams Street owned by
     1973   South LaGrange, Inc., from R-2 to B-2.
     2-7-   Rezoning certain property located on the northwest corner of First Street and
-    1977   Madison Street owned by Kare Thomes Hieb and Julie Ann Hieb, his wife from C-
            1 to G-2.
     5-2-   Rezoning certain property located on the south side of Kentucky Highway No. 146
-    1977   (Jefferson Street) owned by Archer B. Pollard, Jr. and Maurine Pollard, his wife
            from R-2A to R-4.
-    8-1-   Rezoning certain property located on Madison Street owned by Jack Pendleton from
     1977   R-2A to C-2.
-    10-3-  Rezoning certain property located on Yager Avenue owned by Albert B. Clem,
     1977   Charles J. French, Jr. and William Wolfor, Jr. from R-2A to R-4.
-    11-1-  Rezoning the property located on southwest corner of the intersection of Adams
     1978   and Cedar Streets known as lots No. 1A, 1B, and 2 from R-4 to C-3.
16-  11-5-  Rezoning 52.47 acre tract located on the north side of Kentucky Highway 146,
79   1979   known as the Emil Wittwer property, from CO-1 and R-2 to C3.
5-80 4-7-   Zoning certain property located east of Highway 53 on Greenwood Manor and
     1980   Woodcreek Drive, known as Greenwood Manor, as R-4.
12-  6-2-   (1) Zoning certain property located at 525 North Fourth Street as R-4.
80   1980
          (2) Zoning certain property located on the west side of Fort Pickens Road as I-
            1.
8-81 4-6-   Rezoning certain property located at the intersection of Russell Avenue and
     1981   Risley Avenue from R-2A to R-4.
19-  12-21- (1) Rezoning certain property at the intersection of Moody Lane and Kentucky
81   1981   Highway 53 from C-3 to R-4.
          (2) Rezoning certain property located on the western right-of-way line of
            Kentucky Highway 53 and corner to Crestwood State Bank from C-3 to R-4.
13-  7-6-   Rezoning a 6.64 acre tract located at the southeast corner of Washington and Oak
82   1982   Streets from R-2 to R-4.
17-  12-6-  Rezoning the following properties:
82   1982
            (1) Approximately 15.85 acres, beginning at a rod set in the southwest right-of-
          way of Kentucky Highway 53 and being a common corner with Shannon Acres
            Subdivision, from R-2 to C-2.
            (2) Approximately 10.46 acres, beginning at a rod set in the southwest right-of-
          way of Kentucky Highway 53 and being a common corner with Shannon Acres
            Subdivision, from R-2 to R-4.
            (3) Approximately 13.40 acres, beginning at a rod set in the southwest right-of-
          way of Kentucky Highway 53 and following a common line with Shannon Acres
            Subdivision, from CO-1 to R-2.
7-83 6-6-   Rezoning the following properties:
     1983
          (1) Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Block “B” of Woodlawn Subdivision from C-1 and RA-2 to
            C-3;
          (2) Lots 5 and 6 and the five southernmost feet of Lot No. 7 of Woodlawn
            Subdivision from C-1 and R2-A to C-3;
          (3) The easternmost 40 feet of Lot 7 of Anchor Estates, from C-1 and R2-A to C-
            3; and
          (4) The easternmost 40 feet of Lot 8 of Anchor Estates, from C-1 and R2-A to C-
            3.
15-  11-19- Rezoning certain property on Sixth Street from R-2A to C-1.
84   1984
19-  12-3-  Rezoning Lots 87 and 88 of the Interstate Realty Company from R-2A to C-3.
84   1984
1-86 3-3-   Rezoning the following properties from R-2 to C-4:
     1986
          (1) Approximately 3.62 acres, known as Tract-1 of North Oldham Associated
            Investors, Ltd., Crystal Lake Subdivision Lots; and
          (2) Approximately 2.98 acres, known as Tract-2 of North Oldham Associated
            Investors, Ltd., Crystal Lake Subdivision Lots.
7-86 6-16-  Rezoning the following properties from R-4 to C-3:
     1986
          (1) Beginning at the corner of Bibbs Heirs and running north; and
          (2) Beginning at a stake corner to Charles Sauer (now Crouch) on East Street
            extended.
1-87 2-2-   Rezoning a tract of land of 1.058 acres on Highway 146 from C-2 to C-3.
     1987
3-87 2-2-   Rezoning the following properties:
     1987
            (1) Approximately 15.85 acres beginning at an iron pin 15 feet from the
          centerline and in the south right-of-way line of Highway 53 and a common corner
            with Jonathon Westbrook and Shannon Acres Subdivisions, from C-1 to C-3;
            (2) Approximately 3.72 acres beginning at an iron rod being in a common line of
          the Chambers, Milburn, Eldridge and Crestwood State Bank properties, from R-2 to
            C-3; and
            (3) Approximately 2.82 acres beginning at an iron rod in the south right-of-way
          line of Highway 53 and a common corner with Crestwood State Bank, from R-2 to C-
            3.
11-  11-7-  Rezoning a tract of land of 2.48 acres on Highway 146 to R-4.
88C  1988
5-89 5-1-   Rezoning certain property beginning at an iron pipe at a corner post at the
     1989   southwest corner of Yager Avenue to R-4 High Density Residential.
6-89 7-3-   Rezoning certain property situated on the west side of Monroe Street, now Second
     1989   Street, to C-2 Community Business District.
12-  10-1-  Rezoning certain property beginning at a stake corner to the land of Mrs. Esther
90   1990   Dailey in the right-of-way of Kentucky Highway 146 as R-4 High Density
            Residential District.
            Rezoning certain territory beginning at an iron pin located at the intersection
9-91 9-3-   of the east right-of-way line of Fourth Street with the north right-of-way line
     1991   of Jefferson Street from R-4 High Density Residential to C-1 Local Business
            District.
6-92 6-1-   Rezoning property located at 205 North Third Avenue in the city from R-4 High-
     1992   Density Residential to C-1 Local Business District.
     6-1-   Rezoning property located on the south side of New Moody Lane adjacent to the
7-92 1992   west side of Tri-County Community Hospital in the city from R-2 Low Density
            Residential and CO-1 Conservation District to C-3 General Business District.
17-  1-4-   Rezoning property located at 202 West Madison Street, from R-2A Small Lot
92   1993   Single-Family Residential District to R-4 High Density Residential District.
            Rezoning the property located on West Highway 146 in the city consisting of
6-93 5-4-   23.69 acres is changed from a C-1 Conservation District, to R-2 Low Density
     1993   residential (11.329 acres), and R-4 High Density Residential (12.289 acres)
            Districts.
13-  12-6-  Rezoning two tracts of land from R-4 High Density Residential District to C-
93   1993   2 Community Business District:
          (1) Tract I: Beginning at a stone corner to an alley between Main Street and
            Washington Street and running south with Walnut Street; and
          (2) Tract II: The north half of Lot 26.
            Rezoning certain property beginning at an iron pipe in the southerly right-of-
7-94 4-4-   way line of Washington Street at its intersection with the southwest right-of-
     1994   way line of Mulberry Alley, consisting of 17.13 acres, from R-2 Low Density
            Residential District to R-2A, Small Lot, Single- Family Residential District.
     6-6-   Rezoning certain property beginning at an iron rod set in the west right-of-way
9-94 1994   line of Kentucky Highway 53, consisting of 29.41 acres, from T Mobile Home Park
            to R-4 High Density Residential District.
14-  8-1-   Rezoning property located on the corner of Walnut Street and Washington Street
94   1994   from R-4 High Density Residential District to C-2 Community Business District.
21-  11-3-  Rezoning property located on corner of Waterworks Road and Highway 53 from CO-
94   1994   1 Conservation District to R-2A Small Lot Single-Family Residential District.
6-95 4-3-   Rezoning property located at 205 North Walnut Street from R-2A Small Lot Single-
     1995   Family Residential District to C-2 Community Business District.
14-  10-2-  Rezoning 13.64 acres of property located on Highway 53 from R-4 High Density
95   1995   Residential District, CO-1 Conservation District and C-2 Community Business
            District to C-3 General Business District.
4-96 6-3-   Rezoning certain property located at 203 North Third Street from R-4 High
     1996   Density Residential District to C-2 Community Business District.
6-97 7-7-   Rezoning property at 116 N. Sixth Street from R-2A Single- Family Residential to
     1997   C-1 Local Business District.
11-  7-7-   Rezoning property located on the east side of Highway 53 from C-1 Local Business
97   1997   District to C-3 General Business District.
12-  7-7-   Rezoning property located at 2715 New Moody Lane from R-2 Low Density
97   1997   Residential District to C-1 Local Business District.
     5-4-   Rezoning property located at 617 W. Jefferson Street consisting of 0.942 acres
1-98 1998   from R-2 Small Lot Single-Family Residential District to C-3 General Business
            District.
10-  8-3-   Rezoning property located on the west side of Button Lane between the CSX
98   1998   Railroad and Interstate 71 in the city consisting of 93.2 acres from I-1 Light
            Industrial District to IP Industrial Park District.
19-  12-7-  Rezoning property located at 614 Jericho Road consisting of 0.77 acres from I-
98   1998   1 Light Industrial to R-4 High Density Residential.
20-  1-4-   Rezoning property located at 310 North Third Street from R-2 Low Density
98   1999   Residential to R-4 High Density Residential.
1-99 2-2-   Rezoning property located at North Highway 53 from T Mobile Home to R-4 High
     1999   Density Residential.
2-99 2-2-   Rezoning property located at 617 Jefferson Street from C-3 General Business to
     1999   C-1 Local Business.
15-  12-6-  Rezoning property located at 205 East Washington Street from R-4 High Density
99   1999   Residential District to C-1 Local Business District.
1-   2-7-   Rezoning property located on west Highway 146 from R-2 Low Density Residential
2000 2000   District and CO-1 Conservation District to R-4 High Density Residential
            District.
11-  9-5-   Rezoning property located at 608 Jericho Road from I-1 Light Industrial District
2000 2000   to R-4 High Density Residential District.
18-  1-2-   Rezoning property located at 215 Parker Drive from R-2 Low Density Residential
2000 2001   District to C-3 General Business District.
6-   6-4-   Rezoning property located at 320 North First Street from R-2 Low Density
2001 2001   Residential District to R-4 High Density Residential District.
16-  11-5-  Rezoning property located at 308 N. Third Street from R-2 Low Density
2001 2001   Residential District to R-4 High Density Residential District.
3-   5-6-   Rezoning property located at 203 S. Walnut Street from R-4 High Density
2002 2002   Residential District to C-1 Local Business District.
5-   8-11-  Rezoning property located on the north side of Hericho Road, 1,500 feet east of
2003 2003   Ft. Pickens Road from I-2 Heavy Industrial District to R-4 High Density
            Residential District.
3-   4-5-   Rezoning property located at the end of Sugarmaple Drive from CO-1 Conservation
2004 2004   District to R-4 High Density Residential District.
3-   5-2-   Rezoning property located on the east side of South Highway 53 from C-1 Local
2005 2005   Business District and R-2 Low Density Residential District to R-4 High Density
            Residential District.
5-   5-2-   Rezoning property located at 2601 Allen Land and 810 Kentucky Avenue from R-
2005 2005   2 Low Density Residential District to R-2A Small Lot Single-Family Residential
            District.
            Rezoning property located south of I-71 between New Moody Lane, Kentucky Highway
10-  5-16-  53 and Moody Lane in LaGrange from R-2 Residential District, R-4 High Density
2005 2005   Residential District and CO-1 Conservation District to PUD Planned Development
            District.
15-  8-1-   Rezoning property located at 2121 Blakemore Land and 311 South Highway 53 from
2005 2005   CO-1 Conservation District and R-2 Low Density Residential District to R-2 Low
            Density Residential District and R-4 High Density Residential District.
23-  12-5-  Revising the preliminary plan for property located on the east side of South
2005 2005   Highway 53.
2-   3-6-   Revising the preliminary plan for property located approximately 1,500 feet from
2006 2006   Ft. Pickens Road.
            Rezoning property located at 807 and 809 South Highway 53 to be known as
13-  6-5-   Milestone Village from C-1 Local Business District and CO-1 Conservation
2006 2006   District and C4 Highway Service District to CO-1 Conservation District and C4
            Highway Service District.
            Rezoning property located at Allen Lane and Commerce Parkway to be known as
25-  12-4-  Artisan Fields from R-2 Low Density Residential to R-2A Small Lot Single-Family
2006 2006   Residential District, R-4 High Density Residential District and C-1 Local
            Business District.
13-  4-2-   Rezoning property located at 609 West Madison Street, owned by Elizabeth
2007 2007   Applegate, from R-2A Small Lot Single-Family Residential District to R-4 High
            Density Residential District.
24-  10-2-  Rezoning property located at 2400 South Highway 53 to be known as Pristine
2007 2007   Pointe, from R-2 Large Tract Residential to C-3 General Business.
26-  12-3-  Rezoning property located at 2615 and 2613 Allen Lane to be known as Oliver
2007 2007   Square, from R-2 Large Tract Residential to R-4 Small Tract Residential.
30-  1-7-   Approving property located at 1807 Milestone Village Drive to be known as
2007 2008   Hampton Inn and Suites, as part of a Revised Development Plan for Milestone
            Valley (previously approved per Ord. 13-2006).
9-   7-7-   Rezoning property located on Kentucky Highway 53 to be known as Villages of
2008 2008   L’Esprit, from R-2 Residential District to R-4 Residential District and R-4A
            Residential District.
11-  10-6-  Rezoning property located at 209 North First Street from R-2A Residential to O-
2008 2008   1 Office.
2-   3-2-   Rezoning property located at 1201 Commerce Parkway from R-2 Residential District
2009 2009   to R-4 Residential District.
4-   6-4-   Rezoning property located at 1800 South Highway 53 from C-1 Local Business
2012 2012   District to C-3 General Business District.
22-  11-4-  Re-drawing the zoning classification boundaries of approximately 60.09 acres
2013 2013   located at 3200 Massie School Road, zoned as both R-2 and CO-1.
1-   4-6-   Rezoning properties located at 205 and 207 North First Street from R-2A
2015 2015   Residential District to C-N Commercial Neighborhood District.
15-  12-7-  Rezoning property located at 308 West Jefferson Street from R-4 Residential
2015 2015   District to C-N Commercial Neighborhood District.
6-   6-6-   Rezoning property, approximately 10.988 acres, located on the north side of
2016 2016   Commerce Parkway, approximately 0.5 mile west of Kentucky Highway 53 from R-
            4 Residential District to C-2 Community Business District.
12-  7-5-   Rezoning property, approximately nine acres, located at 1720 Commerce Parkway
2016 2016   from R-2 Residential District to C-3 General Business District.
16-  10-3-  Rezoning property located at the 1100 Block of Commerce Parkway from R-
2016 2016   2 Residential District to C-3 General Business District.
14-  10-1-  Rezoning approximately 5.59 acres, located at 1500 Fort Pickens Road, from C-
2018 2018   2 Community Business District to C-3 General Business District.
Res. 11-4-  Rezoning properties extending from 301 to 423 East Main Street, from R-2A
3-   2019   Residential District to C-N Commercial Neighborhood District.
2019
1-   3-2-   Rezoning 14 properties identified on Schedule A of Ord. 1-2020 from R-2A
2020 2020   Residential District to C-N Commercial Neighborhood District.
13-  12-6-  Rezoning 211 North First Avenue from R- 2A Residential District to C-
2021 2021   N Commercial Neighborhood District.
14-  1-3-   Rezoning 704 West Jefferson Street from R-2 Residential District to R-
2021 2022   4 Residential District.
10-  8-1-   Rezoning 1700 block of Commerce Parkway from R-2A Residential District to R-
2022 2022   4 Residential District.
01-  4-3-   Rezoning 305 South Cedar Street from R-2A Residential District to R-
2023 2023   4 Residential District.
12-  7-3-   Rezoning 107 East Washington Street from R-4 Residential to C-N Commercial
2023 2023   Neighborhood District.
13-  8-7-   Rezoning 2219 North Highway 53 from CO-I Conservation/Residential District to C-
2023 2023   1 Local Business District.
16-  10-7-  Rezoning 109 S. Walnut Ave from R-4 Residential District to C-N Commercial
2024 2024   Neighborhood District.
           
 
TABLE XI: TAXES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
16-95    10-2-1995   Levying a general tax for the year 1995.
16-97    9-8-1997    Levying a general tax for the year 1997.
13-98    9-8-1998    Levying a general tax for FY 1998-1999.
14-99    8-23-1999   Levying a general tax for FY 1999-2000 as follows:
                   (1) $0.250 per $100 assessed valuation of real property;
                     and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 assessed valuation personal property.
12-2000  9-15-2000   Levying a general tax for FY 2000-2001 as follows:
                   (1) $0.240 per $100 assessed valuation of real property;
                     and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 assessed valuation of personal
                     property.
10-2001  8-8-2001    Levying a general tax for FY 2001-2002 as follows:
                   (1) $0.240 per $100 assessed valuation of real property;
                     and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 assessed valuation of personal
                     property
11-2002  10-7-2002   Levying a general tax for FY 2002-2003 as follows:
                   (1) $0.240 per $100 worth of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 worth of personal property.
6-2003   9-2-2003    Levying a general tax for FY 2003-2004 as follows:
                   (1) $0.240 per $100 worth of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 worth of personal property.
14-2005  8-1-2005    Levying a general tax for FY 2005-2006 as follows:
                   (1) $0.210 per $100 worth of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 worth of personal property.
20-2006  9-5-2006    Levying a general tax for FY 2006-2007 as follows:
                   (1) $0.210 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
23-2007  9-4-2007    Levying a general tax for FY 2007-2008 as follows:
                   (1) $0.220 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
10-2008  9-2-2008    Levying a general tax for FY 2008-2009 as follows:
                   (1) $0.20 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
6-2009   9-8-2009    Levying a general tax for FY 2010-2011 as follows:
                   (1) $0.20 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
8-2010   9-7-2010    Levying a general tax for FY 2010-2011 as follows:
                   (1) $0.20 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
14-2011  9-6-2011    Levying a general tax for FY 2011-2012 as follows:
                   (1) $0.20 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
9-2012   9-4-2012    Levying a general tax for FY 2012-2013 as follows:
                   (1) $0.20 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
17-2013  9-3-2013    Levying a general tax for FY 2013-2014 as follows:
                   (1) $0.20 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
17-2014  9-2-2014    Levying a general tax for FY 2014-2015 as follows:
                   (1) $0.20 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
10-2015  9-8-2015    Levying a general tax for FY 2015-2016 as follows:
                   (1) $0.20 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
14-2016  9-6-2016    Levying a general tax for FY 2016-2017 as follows:
                   (1) $0.20 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
10-2017  9-5-2017    Levying a general tax for FY 2017-2018 as follows:
                   (1) $0.20 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
10-2018  9-4-2018    Levying a general tax for FY 2018-2019 as follows:
                   (1) $0.20 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
10-2019  9-3-2019    Levying a general tax for FY 2019-2020 as follows:
                   (1) $0.20 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
8-2020   9-8-2020    Levying a general tax for FY 2020-2021 as follows:
                   (1) $0.20 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
11-2021  10-4-2021   Levying a general tax for FY 2021-2022 as follows:
                   (1) $0.199 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
11-2022  9-6-2022    Levying a general tax for FY 2022-2023 as follows:
                   (1) $0.199 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
16-2023  9-5-2023    Levying a general tax for FY 2023-2024 as follows:
                   (1) $0.199 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.265 per $100 of personal property.
13-2024  9-18-2024   Levying a general tax for FY 2024-2025 as follows:
                   (1) $0.198 per $100 of real property; and
                   (2) $0.0265 per $100 of personal property.
                    
 
TABLE XII: REPEALED ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
424  3-2-   Repealer.
     1953
19-  12-15- 17-84 regarding classification and compensation plan and policies and
94   1994   procedures.
17-  12-4-  19-94 regarding classification and compensation plan and policies and
95   1995   procedures.
18-  1-2-   1-83, 8-85, and 18-94 amending rate schedule for sewer service and
95   1996   regulations for use of public sewage treatment system.
17-  1-3-   17-95, 18-97, 12-98, and 17-98 adopting a Personnel Policy and Classification
99   2000   and Compensation Plan for the city.
3-   6-5-   8-83, 14-88 and 2-89 adopting an Operations and Guideline Manual for the
2000 2000   Police Department.
3-   6-4-   17-2000, 12-4-00, revising planning and zoning commission regulations.
2001 2001
28-  1-2-   2-86 amending Chapter 91, Streets and Sidewalks, § 91.100 Encroachment
2006 2006   Permits.
1-   3-5-   Chapter 98 amending Parks.
2007 2007
6-   5-2-   21-97, penalty provisions for parking regulations.
2011 2011
11-  9-4-   10-2004, 5-2011, alcoholic beverages regulations.
2012 2012
11-  11-2-  2-95, 3-6-95, regarding locally owned, minority owned, female owned and small
2015 2015   businesses.
12-  11-2-  Adopting a new employee handbook for employees of the city.
2015 2015
13-  11-2-  424, 3-2-53, prohibiting sales on streets and sidewalks.
2015 2015
9-   9-8-   11-86, 11-3-1986, relating to the establishment, membership, powers and
2020 2020   duties of the La Grange Parks Board, set out in §§ 35.05 through 35.07.
10-  10-5-  20-2014, 12-1-2014, creating the La Grange Enforcement Board and codified as
2020 2020   §§ 35.45 through 35.58.
8-   8-2-   8-85, 10-21-1985, 12-2011, 9-6-2011, 6-2012, 7-2-2012, 9-2013, 8-5-2013, 9-
2021 2021   2018, 8-6-2018, 2-2020, 3-2-2020, relating to monthly water and sewer rates,
            codified as §§ 52.055 through 52.059, and 52.073.
20-  1-3-   8-2019, 6-3-2019, relating to short-term rental property and codified as §§
2023 2024   119.15 through 119.19.
           
 
TABLE XIII: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
                            (A) Effective July 1, 1997, amending salary of
10-97           7-7-1997    Mayor at the rate of $32.87671 per day for a total
                            compensation of $12,000 per year.
                            (B) Effective July 1, 1997, amending salary of City
                          Council members at the rate of $9.86301 per day for
                            a total compensation of $3,600 per year.
18-97           10-8-1997   (A) Amending sick leave policy.
                          (B) Creating a new job classification of Deputy
                            Chief.
12-98           8-3-1998    (A) Amending vacation leave schedule.
                          (B) Amending health insurance benefits.
15-98           9-8-1998    Creating a new job classification of Ordinance
                            Enforcement Officer.
17-98           10-5-1998   Amending sick leave policy.
17-99           1-3-2000    Adopting Personnel Policies, Compensation and
                            Classification Plan for the city.
15-2001         11-5-2001   Amending sick leave policy.
2-2002          2-4-2002    Amending sick leave policy.
14-2002         1-6-2003    Amending benefits of the personnel policy.
                            Effective January 1, 2005, amending salary of City
7-2004          5-3-2004    Council members at the rate of $13.1507 per day
                            payable in equal monthly installments for a total
                            compensation of $4,800 per year.
20-2004         11-1-2004   Specifying the powers and duties of the Code
                            Enforcement Officer.
1-2005          3-7-2005    Amending benefits of the personnel policy.
12-2005         8-1-2005    Amending benefits of the personnel policy.
21-2006         9-5-2006    Amending benefits of the personnel policy.
3-2007          3-5-2007    Amending Classification and Compensation Plan.
4-2007          3-5-2007    Amending Classification and Compensation Plan.
5-2007          3-5-2007    Amending Classification and Compensation Plan.
10-2007         3-5-2007    Amending Classification and Compensation Plan.
11-2007         3-5-2007    Amending Classification and Compensation Plan.
4-2009          5-4-2009    Amending Classification and Compensation Plan.
8-2012          8-6-2012    Amending healthcare coverage of the personnel
                            policy.
16-2015         12-7-2015   Amending Classification and Compensation Plan.
M.O. 1-2024  - -2024     Adopting the revised city Employee Handbook 2024
                            Edition.
5-2024          3-4-2024    Amending the compensation of Council Members.
7-2024          7-1-2024    Adopting the new Personnel Policies and Procedures.
                           
                           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section                                  Code Section
6.050                                        32.48
6.955 to 6.975                               33.04
Chapter 13B                                  117.01
15.410 through 15.510                        35.015
15A.190                                      35.019
16.220                                       72.32
18A.225(2)                                   113.03
41.240(4)                                    33.05,
                                             33.40
42.450 to 42.495                             33.04
43.050                                       33.04
Chapter 45A                                  34A.15,
                                             34.22
Chapter 56                                   34A.15,
                                             34.22
Chapter 61                                   32.21
61.362                                       116.01
61.805                                       156.04
61.805(1)                                    34A.01
61.805(2)                                    34A.01
61.805(3)                                    34A.01
61.805(4)                                    34A.01
61.805(5)                                    34A.01
61.805 to 61.850                             34A.20,
                                             35A.05
61.810                                       39.078
61.810(1)(b), (c), (e) - (h), (j) - (n), (2) 34A.15
61.815                                       34A.16
61.820                                       34A.17,
                                             34A.19
61.823                                       34A.18,
                                             34A.19
61.823(2) - (4)                              91.020
61.823(4)                                    34A.19
61.826                                       34A.19
61.840                                       34A.19
61.846                                       34A.20
61.848                                       34A.20
61.870 et seq.                               116.05
61.870 to 61.884                             34.23
61.870 through 61.882                        31.36
61.870(1)                                    34.01
61.870(2)                                    34.01
61.870(3)                                    34.01
61.870(4)                                    34.01
61.870(5)                                    34.01
61.870(6)                                    34.01
61.870(7)                                    34.01
61.870(8)                                    34.01
61.870(9)                                    34.01
61.872(1) through (3)                        34.15
61.872(4)                                    34.16
61.872(5)                                    34.17
61.872(6)                                    34.18
61.878                                       34.01
61.878(1)                                    34.22
61.878(1)(m)                                 34A.15
61.878(2)                                    34.22
61.878(3)                                    34.22
61.878(4)                                    34.22
61.878(5)                                    34.22
61.880(1)                                    34.19,
                                             34.21
61.884                                       34.21
62.020                                       31.01
                                             35.016,
62.040                                       35.016A,
                                             35.017
Chapter 64                                   32.61
Chapter 65                                   31.02
65.003                                       39.030,
                                             155.16
65.007                                       35.081
65.120                                       Ch. 72
65.240                                       50.10
65.870                                       136.03
65.8801 through 65.8840                      35A.01
65.8801 to 65.8840                           35A.01
                                             35A.01,
65.8801 to 65.8839                           35A.03,
                                             155.16
65.8805(8)                                   35A.13
65.8828                                      35A.11
65.8828(1) to (5)                            35A.11
65.8828(4)                                   35A.11
65.8828(5)                                   35A.10
65.8829                                      155.16
65.8829(6)                                   35A.10
65.8829(7)                                   35A.10
65.8831                                      35A.10
65.8836                                      34A.13
Chapter 65A                                  50.06
65A.020                                      35.081
65A.030                                      35.081
65A.070                                      35.081
65A.070(2)                                   35.081
66.660                                       91.006
82.082 et seq.                               35.081
82.700 to 82.725                             73.05
Chapter 83A                                  32.65
83A.010 to 83A.120                           30.01
83A.010(5)                                   10.02
83A.010(6)                                   10.02
83A.010(7)                                   10.02
83A.010(8)                                   10.02
83A.010(9)                                   10.02
83A.010(10)                                  10.02
83A.010(11)                                  10.02
83A.040(1)                                   31.21
83A.040(2)(a)                                31.21
83A.040(2)(c)                                31.21
83A.040(2)(d)                                31.21
83A.040(3)                                   31.21
83A.040(4)                                   32.01
83A.040(5)                                   32.02
83A.040(6)                                   31.21,
                                             32.02
83A.040(7)                                   31.21,
                                             32.02
83A.040(8)                                   31.21,
                                             32.02
83A.040(9)                                   31.04
83A.050                                      31.20,
                                             32.01
83A.060(1)                                   32.35
83A.060(2)                                   32.36
83A.060(3)                                   32.37
83A.060(4)                                   32.38
83A.060(5)                                   32.40,
                                             155.15
83A.060(6)                                   32.22
83A.060(7)                                   32.38
83A.060(8)                                   32.41
83A.060(8)(a)                                32.42
83A.060(8)(b)                                32.42
83A.060(9)                                   32.43
83A.060(10)                                  32.44
83A.060(11)                                  32.45
83A.060(12)                                  32.46
83A.060(13)                                  32.46
83A.060(14)                                  32.47
83A.060(15)                                  32.48
83A.065                                      10.02,
                                             10.99
83A.070                                      31.03
83A.070(1)                                   31.03
83A.070(2)                                   31.03
83A.070(3)                                   31.03
83A.075                                      31.03
83A.08                                       35A.02
83A.080(1)                                   31.35
83A.080(2)                                   31.35
83A.080(3)                                   31.04,
                                             31.20
83A.080(4)                                   31.20
83A.085                                      31.36
83A.130 to 83A.150                           31.21
83A.130(1)                                   30.01
83A.130(2)                                   30.02
83A.130(3)                                   31.21
83A.130(4)                                   31.21
83A.130(5)                                   32.20
83A.130(6)                                   32.39
83A.130(7)                                   31.21
83A.130(8)                                   31.21
83A.130(9)                                   31.21
83A.130(10)                                  31.21
83A.130(11)                                  32.03,
                                             32.21
83A.130(12)                                  32.03
83A.130(13)                                  32.03
83A.165                                      31.20
83A.170                                      31.20
83A.175                                      32.02
91A.010                                      33.01
91A.010(8)                                   10.02
91A.020                                      33.02
91A.030                                      33.03
91A.040                                      33.04
91A.050                                      33.04
91A.060                                      33.05
91A.200                                      33.21
91A.210                                      33.20
91A.220                                      33.21
91A.230                                      33.22
91A.240                                      33.23
91A.250                                      33.24
91A.260                                      33.25
91A.270                                      33.26
91A.280                                      33.27
91A.290                                      33.28
91A.350                                      35.081
91A.360                                      35.081
91A.360(5)                                   35.081
91A.390                                      35.081
91A.390(1)                                   35.081
91A.390(3)                                   35.081
96.260                                       50.10
96.320                                       50.02
96.460                                       50.10
100.111                                      121.03
100.237                                      121.01,
                                             121.03
Chapter 107                                  33.21
118.105                                      39.002
118.115                                      39.002
118.305(7)                                   32.02
118.325                                      39.002
118.760                                      39.002
131.010(6)                                   113.04
132.285                                      37.01
134.800                                      37.04
134.810                                      37.04
Chapter 136                                  115.01
136.120                                      110.03
Chapter 154                                  34.22
154.30-050(2)(a)                             35.081
174.100                                      91.020
174.100(1)                                   91.021
174.100(2)                                   91.022
174.100(3)                                   91.023
174.100(4)                                   91.024
174.100(5)                                   91.025
178.290                                      91.006
186.020                                      72.32,
                                             73.06
186.050                                      73.06
186.560                                      71.030
186A.190                                     72.32
Chapter 189                                  73.06
189.010(19)                                  70.01
189.020                                      71.032
189.285                                      73.02
189.286                                      73.06
189.287                                      73.01
189.290                                      71.030
189.330(8)                                   71.002
189.338                                      70.20
189.378                                      71.045
189.378(1)                                   70.01
189.380                                      73.01
189.394                                      71.085
189.450(5)                                   72.03
189.450(6)                                   72.03
189.570(21)                                  116.09
189.580                                      71.015
189.700                                      71.060,
                                             116.01
189.725                                      72.08
189.820                                      73.06
189.910                                      71.045
189.920                                      71.045
189.930                                      71.031
196.099                                      34.01
Chapter 198B                                 150.03
198B.070                                     150.03
209.030(2)                                   35.019
217.015                                      111.11
Chapter 218A                                 117.06
218B                                         121.01—
                                             121.03
218B.010                                     121.02
224.1-410                                    35A.08
224.20-720                                   73.06
226.010                                      112.01
226.020                                      112.02
226.030                                      112.07
226.040                                      112.03
226.050                                      112.04
226.060                                      112.08
226.070                                      112.03
226.080                                      112.05
226.090                                      112.06
226.100                                      112.08
Chapter 227                                  93.05—
                                             93.07
227.700                                      93.02
227.702                                      93.02
227.702(1)                                   93.02,
                                             93.07
227.702(2)                                   93.02,
                                             93.04
227.702(3)                                   93.02,
                                             93.04
227.706                                      93.03
227.990(1)                                   150.99
Chapters 241 through 244                     117.01,
                                             117.99
Chapter 241                                  117.01
241.100                                      117.01
Chapter 242                                  117.01
242.1244                                     117.07
                                             110.03,
Chapter 243                                  117.01,
                                             118.02
243.020                                      117.17
243.030                                      117.07
243.033                                      117.07
243.040                                      117.07
243.070                                      117.07
243.075                                      117.07
243.360                                      117.02
243.630                                      117.09
243.895                                      117.20
                                             117.01,
Chapter 244                                  117.11,
                                             117.16
244.050                                      117.13
244.083                                      117.12
244.130                                      117.12
244.150                                      117.15
244.290                                      117.10
244.300                                      117.20
257.100                                      90.06
257.100(4)                                   90.01
Chapter 281                                  72.31
281.605(12)                                  72.32
304.17B-005                                  113.03
304.39-080                                   73.06
351.315 through 351.370                      99.01
367.650 through 367.669                      116.06,
                                             116.08
367.650 through 367.670 et seq.              116.03
367.650(2)                                   116.01
367.668                                      116.03
376.275(1)                                   72.32
376.275(2)                                   72.32
376.275(3)                                   72.32
376.275(4)                                   72.32
376.275(5)                                   72.32
376.275(6)                                   72.32
403.785(1)                                   35.019
403.785(2)                                   35.019
413.249                                      35.019
                                             32.43,
                                             33.04,
                                             33.24,
Chapter 424                                  33.25,
                                             35.081,
                                             35A.10,
                                             155.31,
                                             156.06
424.120                                      33.04
424.145                                      32.21
424.220                                      33.04
424.220(6)(b)                                33.04
436.600                                      90.04
446.010(1)                                   10.02
446.010(2)                                   10.02
446.010(9)                                   10.02
446.010(10)                                  10.02
446.010(12)                                  10.02
446.010(13)                                  10.02
446.010(14)                                  10.02
446.010(15)                                  10.02
446.010(17)                                  10.02
446.010(18)                                  10.02
446.010(23)                                  10.02
446.010(25)                                  10.02
446.010(26)                                  10.02
446.010(27)                                  10.02
446.010(28)                                  10.02
446.010(30)                                  10.02
446.010(31)                                  10.02
446.010(33)                                  10.02
446.010(37)                                  10.02
446.010(39)                                  10.02
446.010(43)                                  10.02
446.010(46)                                  10.02
446.010(47)                                  10.02
446.010(49)                                  10.02
446.010(55)                                  10.02
446.020(1)                                   10.03
446.020(2)                                   10.03
446.030                                      10.04
446.050                                      10.05
446.060                                      10.06
446.080(1)                                   10.03
446.080(3)                                   10.03
446.080(4)                                   10.03
446.090                                      10.07
446.100                                      10.08
446.110                                      10.09
446.140                                      10.01
506.010                                      Ch. 138
506.030                                      Ch. 138
506.040                                      Ch. 138
506.080                                      Ch. 138
506.120                                      Ch. 138
507.020                                      Ch. 130
507.030                                      Ch. 130
507.040                                      Ch. 130
507.050                                      Ch. 130
508.010                                      Ch. 130
508.020                                      Ch. 130
508.025                                      Ch. 130
508.030                                      Ch. 130
508.040                                      Ch. 130
508.050                                      Ch. 130
508.060                                      Ch. 130
508.070                                      Ch. 130
508.080                                      Ch. 130
508.100                                      Ch. 130
508.110                                      Ch. 130
508.120                                      Ch. 130
509.020                                      Ch. 130
509.030                                      Ch. 130
509.040                                      Ch. 130
509.070                                      Ch. 130
509.080                                      Ch. 130
510.040                                      Ch. 137
510.050                                      Ch. 137
510.060                                      Ch. 137
510.070                                      Ch. 137
510.080                                      Ch. 137
510.090                                      Ch. 137
510.100                                      Ch. 137
510.110                                      Ch. 137
510.120                                      Ch. 137
510.130                                      Ch. 137
510.140                                      Ch. 137
510.150                                      Ch. 137
511.020                                      132.02
511.030                                      132.02
511.040                                      132.02
511.050                                      132.02
511.060                                      132.02
511.070                                      132.02
511.080                                      132.02
512.020 through 512.030                      51.002
512.020                                      132.02
512.030                                      132.02
512.050                                      132.02
512.060                                      132.02
512.070                                      132.02
512.080                                      132.02
513.020                                      132.02
513.030                                      132.02
513.040                                      132.02
513.060                                      132.02
514.030                                      132.02
514.040                                      132.02
514.050                                      132.02
514.060                                      132.02
514.065                                      132.02
514.070                                      35.081,
                                             132.02
514.080                                      132.02
514.090                                      132.02
514.100                                      132.02
514.110                                      132.02
514.120                                      132.02
514.140                                      132.02
514.150                                      132.02
515.020                                      132.02
515.030                                      132.02
516.020                                      132.02
516.030                                      132.02
516.040                                      132.02
516.050                                      132.02
516.060                                      132.02
516.070                                      132.02
516.090                                      132.02
516.110                                      132.02
516.120                                      132.02
516.130                                      132.02
519.020                                      Ch. 135
519.030                                      Ch. 135
519.040                                      Ch. 135
519.050                                      Ch. 135
519.060                                      Ch. 135
520.010                                      34.01
520.020                                      Ch. 135
520.030                                      Ch. 135
520.040                                      Ch. 135
520.050                                      Ch. 135
520.060                                      Ch. 135
520.070                                      Ch. 135
520.080                                      Ch. 135
520.090                                      Ch. 135
520.100                                      Ch. 135
520.120                                      Ch. 135
520.130                                      Ch. 135
521.020                                      Ch. 135
521.030                                      Ch. 135
521.040                                      Ch. 135
522.020                                      Ch. 135
522.030                                      Ch. 135
522.040                                      Ch. 135
523.020                                      Ch. 135
523.030                                      Ch. 135
523.040                                      Ch. 135
523.100                                      Ch. 135
524.020                                      Ch. 135
524.030                                      Ch. 135
524.040                                      Ch. 135
524.050                                      Ch. 135
524.055                                      Ch. 135
524.060                                      Ch. 135
524.070                                      Ch. 135
524.090                                      Ch. 135
524.100                                      Ch. 135
524.110                                      Ch. 135
524.130                                      Ch. 135
525.020                                      136.03
525.030                                      136.03
525.040                                      136.03
525.050                                      136.03
525.060                                      136.03
525.070                                      136.03
525.080                                      136.03
525.090                                      136.03
525.100                                      136.03
525.105                                      136.03
525.110                                      136.03
525.120                                      136.03
525.125                                      90.03,
                                             136.03
525.130                                      90.03,
                                             136.03
525.140                                      136.03
525.150                                      136.03
525.160                                      136.03
526.020                                      136.03
526.030                                      136.03
526.040                                      136.03
526.050                                      136.03
526.060                                      136.03
528.020                                      Ch. 134
528.030                                      Ch. 134
528.040                                      Ch. 134
528.050                                      Ch. 134
528.060                                      Ch. 134
528.070                                      Ch. 134
528.080                                      Ch. 134
528.110                                      Ch. 134
529.020                                      133.02
529.040                                      133.02
529.070                                      133.02
529.080                                      133.02
530.010                                      Ch. 131
530.020                                      Ch. 131
530.030                                      Ch. 131
530.040                                      Ch. 131
530.050                                      Ch. 131
530.060                                      Ch. 131
530.064                                      Ch. 131
530.065                                      Ch. 131
530.070                                      Ch. 131
530.080                                      Ch. 131
531.020                                      133.02
531.030                                      133.02
531.040                                      133.02
531.050                                      133.02
531.060                                      133.02
531.310                                      133.02
531.320                                      133.02
531.335                                      133.02
531.340                                      133.02
531.350                                      133.02
531.360                                      133.02
531.370                                      133.02
532.090(1)                                   10.02
534.040                                      10.99
534.040(2)(a)                                10.02
534.040(2)(c)                                10.02
558.120                                      Ch. 134
620.030(2)                                   35.019
                                             
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
3-2019   11-4-2019   TSO X
2-2024   5-6-2024    Not included
1-2025   3-3-2025    Not included
2-2025   3-3-2025    Not included
3-2025   4-7-2025    Not included
                    
 
REFERENCES TO MUNICIPAL ORDERS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1-2024   6- -2024    TSO XIII
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
22        12-23-1896  91.056
23        12-23-1896  133.01
30        12-23-1896  132.01
40        5-4-1901    TSO II
45        9-4-1903    TSO II
83        2-14-1908   91.055
85        4-10-1908   TSO II
86        4-10-1908   91.006(B)
88        5-13-1908   TSO II
105       6-18-1908   TSO II
106       6-18-1908   TSO II
107.5     7-10-1908   TSO II
110       10-26-1908  TSO II
111       10-26-1908  TSO II
112       10-26-1908  TSO II
113       10-26-1908  TSO II
114       12-11-1908  TSO II
173       8-12-1912   TSO II
212       9-7-1916    TSO II
256       8-3-1922    TSO II
257       10-3-1922   TSO II
264       7- -1923    TSO IX
311       10-7-1929   TSO III
315       5-13-1930   TSO III
316       8-6-1930    TSO III
344       12-2-1935   TSO III
367       3-13-1939   TSO III
372       8-7-1939    TSO II
373       10-2-1939   TSO II
394       1-6-1947    TSO II
395       2-3-1947    TSO II
406       1-2-1950    TSO III
412       6-5-1950    TSO III
419       5-5-1952    TSO III
424       3-2-1953    Repealed,
                      TSO II
435       7-2-1956    TSO II
436       7-2-1956    TSO II
437       7-2-1956    TSO II
438       7-2-1956    TSO II
439       7-2-1956    TSO II
440       7-2-1956    TSO II
441       7-2-1956    TSO II
442       7-2-1956    TSO II
443       7-2-1956    TSO II
444       7-2-1956    TSO II
446       3-4-1957    TSO II
447       3-4-1957    TSO II
450       9-3-1957    TSO II
-         12-1-1957   TSO III
454       3-5-1958    TSO III
457       4-7-1958    TSO IV
460       9-30-1958   TSO I
461       9-2-1958    TSO IV
463       12-1-1958   TSO II
510       3-6-1967    TSO II
520       - -1967     71.060 
                      71.071
522       9-11-1967   TSO II
523       9-11-1967   TSO II
529       2-5-1968    TSO II
530       2-5-1968    TSO II
531       2-5-1968    TSO II
545       11-4-1968   TSO IX
565       4-5-1971    TSO IX
582-73    3-5-1973    35.015
597-74    5-6-1974    TSO VII
-         4-2-1973    TSO X
-         6-3-1973    TSO X
110.1     7-2-1973    TSO II
110.2     7-2-1973    TSO II
110.3     7-2-1973    TSO II
110.4     7-2-1973    TSO II
596-74    3-4-1974    151.02
602-74    8-20-1974   153.01
620.1     7-1-1974    TSO IX
620.2     10-7-1974   TSO IX
240.1     5-5-1975    TSO VIII
240.2     - -         TSO VIII
609-75    12-10-1975  TSO IX
110.6     4-5-1976    TSO II
615-76    6-7-1976    153.01
616-76    8-2-1976    153.01,
                      TSO II
620.4     4-5-1976    TSO IX
614-76    8-2-1976    TSO X
-         2-7-1977    TSO X
-         5-2-1977    TSO X
-         8-1-1977    TSO X
-         10-3-1977   TSO X
624-77    12-5-1977   153.01
2-78      4-3-1978    72.60,
                      72.61
6-78      5-1-1978    94.01 
                      94.08
-         6-1-1978    TSO III
-         8-1-1978    TSO III
11-78     7-5-1978    72.13
15-78     9-5-1978    153.01
17-78     9-5-1978    151.02
24-78     11-1-1978   153.01
28-78     7-5-1978    TSO III
         11-1-1978   TSO X
         12-4-1978   TSO III
27-78     12-4-1978   153.01
31-78     12-20-1978  TSO II
32-78     12-20-1978  TSO II
33-78     12-20-1978  TSO II
34-78     12-20-1978  TSO II
3-79      11-8-1979   Repealed
4-79      4-2-1979    TSO II
5-79      4-2-1979    91.070
6-79      4-23-1979   TSO IX
7-79      4-23-1979   TSO IX
8-79      4-23-1979   93.35 
                      93.37
11-79     9-10-1979   153.01
15-79     10-1-1979   TSO II
16-79     11-5-1979   TSO X
1-80      1-7-1980    71.086
4-80      2-4-1980    72.12
5-80      4-7-1980    TSO X
                      90.01,
8-80      5-5-1980    90.02,
                      90.07
11-80     6-2-1980    71.086
12-80     6-2-1980    TSO X
13-80     8-5-1980    Repealed
14-80     9-8-1980    71.085
16-80     9-8-1980    TSO VII
300.350.1 10-3-1980   152.01 
                      152.05
18-80     12-30-1980  153.01
2-81      1-23-1981   TSO V
3-81      2-5-1981    31.20(A)
5-81      2-5-1981    30.02(B)
8-81      4-6-1981    TSO X
9-81      4-20-1981   TSO III
11-81     5-4-1981    TSO III
18-81     12-7-1981   TSO VII
19-81     12-21-1981  TSO X
20-81(c)  12-21-1981  TSO VII
21-81(c)  1-4-1982    TSO VII
2-82      4-5-1982    153.01
3-82      4-5-1982    TSO IX
4-82      4-19-1982   TSO II
5-82      4-19-1982   TSO VI
8-82      4-19-1982   153.01
9-82      6-21-1982   51.018
                      31.35,
                      31.36,
10-82     6-21-1982   31.38,
                      35.016,
                      35.017
13-82     7-6-1982    TSO X
17-82     12-6-1982   TSO X
1-83      2-7-1983    52.041
2-83      2-21-1983   50.01 
                      50.09
3-83      3-7-1983    TSO III
                      52.001 
4-83      3-7-1983    52.007,
                      52.020 
                      52.040
                      51.001,
                      51.002,
                      51.015 
                      51.017,
                      51.030 
5-83      3-21-1983   51.039,
                      51.050 
                      51.052,
                      51.056 
                      51.061,
                      51.080 
                      51.082
7-83      6-6-1983    TSO X
8-83      6-20-1983   Repealed
11-83     8-1-1983    153.01
12-83     8-15-1983   32.20
13-83     10-3-1983   50.05
14-83     11-21-1983  TSO II
1-84      2-20-1984   TSO II
2-84      2-20-1984   51.018
3-84      2-20-1984   114.01 
                      114.07
4-84(c)   4-2-1984    TSO VII
5-84      5-21-1984   154.01 
                      154.06
7-84      6-4-1984    153.01
9-84      7-16-1984   153.01
11-84     8-20-1984   38.01 
                      38.04
12-84     9-17-1984   TSO VII
14-84     10-15-1984  113.01 
                      113.05
15-84     11-19-1984  TSO X
18-84     12-3-1984   TSO IX
19-84     12-3-1984   TSO X
1-85      9-3-1985    72.13
6-85      7-15-1985   TSO V
7-85      9-16-1985   TSO III
8-85      10-21-1985  Repealed
9-85      11-18-1985  71.085
1-86      3-3-1986    TSO X
2-86      5-5-1986    91.085 
                      91.088
3-86(c)   5-22-1986   TSO VII
4-86      6-2-1986    92.04,
                      92.99
5-86      5-22-1986   37.02,
                      37.03
7-86      6-16-1986   TSO X
9-86      9-15-1986   71.085
10-86     9-15-1986   Repealed
11-86     11-3-1986   Repealed
1-87      2-2-1987    TSO X
2-87      2-2-1987    153.01
3-87      2-2-1987    TSO X
4-87      6-15-1987   90.09
8-87      10-5-1987   32.20
9-87      - -1987     153.01
10-87     1-4-1988    70.40
1-88      3-7-1988    72.13
-88       5-2-1988    53.01 
                      53.07
3-88      5-2-1988    TSO VII
4-88      5-2-1988    72.14
5-88      6-8-1988    Adopting Ordinance
9-88C     8-1-1988    TSO VII
10-88C    9-6-1988    72.33,
                      91.115
11-88C    11-7-1988   TSO X
12-88C    11-7-1988   TSO II
13-88C    11-7-1988   91.070
14-88     1-3-1989    Repealed
1-89      2-6-1989    Adopting Ordinance
2-89      3-6-1989    Repealed
3-89      3-6-1989    153.01
4-89      4-3-1989    71.085
5-89      5-1-1989    TSO X
6-89      7-3-1989    TSO X
7-89      7-3-1989    156.01 
                      156.09
3-90      3-5-1990    Adopting Ordinance
4-90      6-4-1990    153.01
6-90      7-2-1990    TSO II
7-90      7-2-1990    TSO II
9-90      9-4-1990    72.02,
                      72.03
                      95.01 
10-90     9-4-1990    95.04,
                      95.99
11-90     10-1-1990   113.01 
                      113.05
12-90     10-1-1990   TSO X
13-90     10-1-1990   153.01
16-90     1-7-1990    93.35
1-91      2-4-1991    Adopting Ordinance
2-91      5-6-1991    TSO II
3-91      5-6-1991    35.019
6-91      8-5-1991    TSO VII
9-91      9-3-1991    TSO X
10-91     11-4-1991   TSO I
11-91     11-4-1991   TSO IX
2-92      3-2-1992    TSO II
3-92      4-6-1992    156.05
4-92      4-6-1992    53.20 
                      53.22
5-92      4-6-1992    Adopting Ordinance
6-92      6-1-1992    TSO X
7-92      6-1-1992    TSO X
10-92     7-6-1992    TSO II
12-92     8-3-1992    37.02,
                      37.03
14-92     9-8-1992    TSO II
17-92     1-4-1993    TSO X
18-92     1-4-1993    TSO II
1-93      4-5-1993    TSO VII
2-93      4-5-1993    TSO II
3-93      4-5-1993    TSO II
                      51.053 
4-93      4-5-1993    51.055,
                      51.062 
                      51.065
5-93      4-5-1993    Adopting Ordinance
6-93      5-4-1993    TSO X
9-93      8-2-1993    TSO I
10-93     8-2-1993    TSO IX
11-93     8-2-1993    TSO V
13-93     12-6-1993   TSO X
15-93     1-3-1994    153.01
3-94      3-7-1994    91.100
4-94      3-7-1994    Repealed
5-94      4-4-1994    Adopting Ordinance
6-94      4-4-1994    TSO II
7-94      4-4-1994    TSO X
8-94      4-4-1994    TSO VII
9-94      6-6-1994    TSO X
10-94     7-5-1994    TSO II
14-94     8-1-1994    TSO X
17-94     10-3-1994   TSO II
18-94     11-7-1994   52.041
                     
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Subject Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed  Subject                                Code Section
19-94    12-15-1994   Personnel Policies                     Repealed,
                                                             TSO XII
                                                             39.001,
                                                             39.002,
                                                             39.015 
                                                             39.019,
20-94    12-15-1994   Ethics Code                            39.030 
                                                             39.033,
                                                             39.045,
                                                             39.075 
                                                             39.079
21-94    1-3-1995     Zoning Map Amendments                  TSO X
1-95     3-6-1995     Disability Status                      38.04
2-95     3-6-1995     Procurement Standards                  40.01 
                                                             40.05
3-95     3-6-1995     Fair Housing                           96.01 
                                                             96.14
4-95     5-1-1995     Annexation                             TSO II
5-95     4-3-1995     Adopting Ordinance                     -
6-95     4-3-1995     Zoning                                 TSO X
7-95     5-1-1995     Annexation                             TSO II
8-95     6-28-1995    Budget                                 Not Included
9-95     7-3-1995     Franchise Agreement Trash              TSO VII
10-95    6-28-1995    Budget                                 Not Included
11-95    6-28-1995    Budget                                 Not Included
12-95    7-3-1995     Streets                                TSO I
13-95    9-5-1995     Investment Policy                      33.40
14-95    10-2-1995    Revised Zoning Maps                    TSO X
15-95    10-2-1995    Tree Ordinance                         97.01 
                                                             97.15
16-95    10-2-1995    General Tax                            TSO XI
17-95    12-4-1995    Personnel Policies and Procedures      Repealed,
                                                             TSO XII
                                                             52.070 
                                                             52.072,
18-95    1-2-1996     Rate Schedule Water and Sewage         52.074,
                                                             52.075,
                                                             TSO XII
1-96     3-4-1996     Subdivision Regulations                153.01
2-96     3-4-1996     Parent Responsibility for Curfew       136.01,
                                                             136.02
3-96     4-1-1996     Adopting Ordinance                     -
4-96     6-3-1996     Zoning Map Revision                    TSO X
5-96     6-25-1996    Budget Ordinance                       Not Included
6-96     6-25-1996    Budget Ordinance                       Not Included
7-96     6-25-1996    Budget Ord. for Utility Commission     Not Included
8-96     9-5-1996     Zoning Ordinance Amendment             153.01
9-96     9-5-1996     Tax Levy                               37.02,
                                                             37.03
10-96    9-5-1996     Bank Franchise and Local Tax           115.01 
                                                             115.03
11-96    9-5-1996     Amd. Code of Ethics                    39.030,
                                                             39.031
1-97     2-3-1997     Annex. Property                        TSO II
2-97     4-7-1997     Annex. 30.530 Acres ("L & N Lakes")    TSO II
3-97     3-3-1997     Adopting 1996 S-9 Supplement to code   -
                      of ordinances
4-97     6-2-1997     Annexing Priest and Roberts Properties TSO II
5-97     7-7-1997     Establishing Regulations for Hazardous 93.20 
                      Substances                             93.23
6-97     7-7-1997     Rezoning Property                      TSO X
7-97     6-26-1997    Amending Budget FY 1996-97             Not included
8-97     6-26-1997    Adopting Annual Budget FY 1996-97      Not Included
9-97     6-26-1997    Adopting Utility Comm. Annual Budget   Not included
                      for FY 1997-98
10-97    7-7-1997     Amending Salaries                      TSO XIII
11-97    7-7-1997     Rezoning Property                      TSO X
12-97    7-7-1997     Rezoning Property                      TSO X
                      Adopting Rule and Regs. of Wilborn     98.01 
13-97    9-2-1997     Park                                   98.03,
                                                             98.05
14-97    10-6-1997    Annexing 4.193 Acres                   TSO II
15-97    9-8-1997     Awarding Franchise for Garbage         TSO VII
                      Collection
                                                             37.02,
16-97    9-8-1997     Levying Ad Valorem Tax                 37.03,
                                                             TSO XI
17-97    11-3-1997    Annexing Property                      TSO II
18-97    10-8-1997    Amending Personnel Policies            TSO XIII, Repealed
                                                             31.35 
                      Amending Creation of Non-Elected       31.39,
19-97    10-8-1997    Offices                                35.016,
                                                             35.016A,
                                                             35.017
20-97    12-1-1997    Amending Parking Regulations           72.15
1-98     5-4-1998     Revising Zoning Map                    TSO X
2-98     5-4-1998     Annexing certain property              TSO II
3-98     7-6-1998     Amending Parking Regulations           72.01,
                                                             72.06
4-98     6-15-1998    Revising Zoning Ordinance              153.01
5-98     6-17-1998    Amending Annual budget FY 97-98        Not included
6-98     6-17-1998    Adopting annual budget FY 98-99        Not included
7-98     6-17-1998    Adopting Utility Comm. Annual Budget   Not included
                      FY 98-99
8-98     8-3-1998     Amending Chapter 90: Animals           90.01,
                                                             90.09
9-98     8-3-1998     Adopting S-10 Supplement to the code   -
                      of ordinances
10-98    8-3-1998     Revising Zoning Map                    TSO X
11-98    8-3-1998     Annexing Certain Property              TSO II
12-98    8-3-1998     Amending Personnel Policies            Repealed,
                                                             TSO XIII
                      Amending ad valorem taxation on real   37.02,
13-98    9-8-1998     property                               37.03,
                                                             TSO XI
                      Adopting a time period between the
14-98    9-8-1998     introduction of the annual budget and  33.03(G)
                      final passage thereof
                      Creating Non-elected Office of         31.35,
15-98    9-8-1998     Ordinance Enforcement Officer          31.43,
                                                             TSO XIII
16-98    Did not pass                                        
17-98    10-5-1998    Amending Personnel Policies and        Repealed,
                      Classification Plan                    TSO XIII
                      Authorizing extension of city
18-98    11-2-1998    utilities outside city boundaries and  TSO IV
                      condemnation proceedings, if necessary
                      to obtain easements
19-98    12-7-1998    Amending zoning map                    TSO X
20-98    1-4-1999     Amending zoning map                    TSO X
1-99     2-2-1999     Amending zoning map                    TSO X
2-99     2-2-1999     Amending zoning map                    TSO X
3-99     3-1-1999     Adopting the 1998 S-11 Supplement to   -
                      the code of ordinances
4-99     3-1-1999     Authorizing condemnation action for    TSO IV
                      sewer line
5-99     4-5-1999     Accepting a portion of Tin-Dor Circle  TSO I
                      into the city road system
6-99     4-5-1999     Closing a portion of Tin-Dor Circle    TSO IX
                      within the city
7-99     6-7-1999     Annexing certain property              TSO II
8-99     6-7-1999     Annexing certain property              TSO II
9-99     6-28-1999    Annexing certain property              TSO II
10-99    6-28-1999    Amending annual budget FY1998-1999     Not included
11-99    6-28-1999    Granting a franchise for the           TSO VII
                      collection and disposal of garbage
12-99    6-28-1999    Adopting annual budget for FY 1999-    Not Included
                      2000
13-99    6-28-1999    Adopting the Utility Commission annual Not included
                      budget for FY 1999-2000
14-99    8-23-1999    Levying a general tax                  TSO XI
15-99    12-6-1999    Revising zoning map                    TSO X
16-99    1-3-2000     Adopting fire and safety codes         93.20
                      Adopting personnel policy and          36.01,
17-99    1-3-2000     Classification and Compensation Plan   TSO XII,
                                                             TSO XIII 
1-2000   2-7-2000     Revising zoning map                    TSO X
                      Authorizing issuance of general
2-2000   2-22-2000    obligation bonds for improvement of    TSO III
                      golf course
3-2000   6-5-2000     Adopting an operations and guidelines  35.018,
                      manual for the police department       TSO XII
                                                             50.01,
                                                             50.03,
                                                             50.06,
                                                             51.001,
                                                             51.030,
                                                             51.031,
                                                             51.033,
                                                             51.035,
                                                             51.038,
                                                             51.051,
                                                             51.053 
                                                             51.055,
                                                             51.059,
                      Amending chapters 50-53 of code of     51.064,
                      ordinances referring to the Utility    51.065,
4-2000   6-5-2000     Commission, sewer and water            51.080 
                      regulations and garbage                51.082,
                                                             52.001,
                                                             52.003 
                                                             52.005,
                                                             52.021,
                                                             52.022,
                                                             52.025,
                                                             52.027,
                                                             52.028,
                                                             52.038,
                                                             52.040,
                                                             52.041,
                                                             52.075,
                                                             53.07,
                                                             53.21
5-2000   7-5-2000     Adopting the 1999 S-12 supplement to   -
                      the code of ordinances
6-2000   7-5-2000     Annexing certain property              TSO II
7-2000   7-5-2000     Annexing certain property              TSO II
8-2000   6-26-2000    Amending annual budget for FY 1999-    Not Included
                      2000
9-2000   6-26-2000    Adopting annual budget for FY 2000-    Not Included
                      2001
10-2000  6-20-2000    Adopting Utility Commission annual     Not Included
                      budget for FY 2000-2001
11-2000  9-5-2000     Revising zoning map                    TSO X 
12-2000  9-15-2000    Levying a general tax                  TSO XI
13-2000  10-2-2000    Annexing certain property              TSO II
14-2000  10-2-2000    Annexing certain property              TSO II  
15-2000  10-2-2000    Accepting Phyllis Lane into road       TSO I
                      system
16-2000  10-2-2000    Closing Phyllis Lane as a public way   TSO IX
17-2000  12-4-2000    Revising planning and zoning           Repealed
                      commission regulations
18-2000  1-2-2001     Revising zoning map                    TSO X
19-2000  1-2-2001     Amending operations and guidelines     35.018
                      manual for the police department
1-2001   4-2-2001     Adopting the 2000 S-13 supplement to   -
                      the code of ordinances
2-2001   - -          Amending encroachment permit           91.100
                      regulations
3-2001   6-4-2001     Repealing Ord. 17-2000 regarding       TSO XII
                      zoning regulations
4-2001   6-4-2001     Amending Ord. 11-99 regarding a        TSO VII
                      garbage franchise
                      Amending the procedure for amending
5-2001   6-4-2001     the operations and guidelines manual   35.018
                      for the police department
6-2001   6-4-2001     Revising zoning map                    TSO X
7-2001   6-25-2001    Amending annual budget for FY 2000-    Not Included
                      2001
8-2001   6-25-2001    Adopting annual budget for FY 2001-    Not Included
                      2002
9-2001   6-25-2001    Adopting Utility Commission annual     Not Included
                      budget for FY 2001-2002
10-2001  8-8-2001     Levying general ad valorem taxes       TSO XI
11-2001  9-4-2001     Revising planning and zoning           153.01
                      commission regulations
12-2001  8-8-2001     Revising planning and zoning           153.01
                      commission regulations
13-2001  8-8-2001     Annexing certain property              TSO II
14-2001  8-8-2001     Amending sewer and water regulations   51.030,
                                                             52.041
15-2001  11-5-2001    Amending personnel policy and          36.01,
                      classification and compensation plans  TSO XIII
16-2001  11-5-2001    Revising zoning map                    TSO X
17-2001  1-7-2002     Annexing certain property              TSO II
1-2002   3-4-2002     Annexing certain property              TSO II
2-2002   2-4-2002     Amending personnel policy and          36.01,
                      classification and compensation plans  TSO XIII
3-2002   5-6-2002     Zoning map change                      TSO X
4-2002   6-17-2002    Amending annual budget for FY 2001-    Not Included
                      2002
5-2002   6-17-2002    Adopting annual budget for FY 2002-    Not Included
                      2003
6-2002   6-17-2002    Adopting Utility Commission annual     Not Included
                      budget for FY 2002-2003
7-2002   8-5-2002     Adopting the 2002 S-14 supplement to   -
                      the code of ordinances
8-2002   11-4-2002    Annexing property                      TSO II
9-2002   8-6-2002     Annexing property                      TSO II
10-2002  10-7-2002    Amendments to sewer and water          52.041
                      regulations
11-2002  10-7-2002    Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
12-2002  10-7-2002    Garbage franchise                      TSO VII
13-2002  1-6-2003     Annexing property                      TSO II
14-2002  1-6-2003     Amending personnel policy              36.01,
                                                             TSO XIII
1-2003   5-5-2003     Amending occupational license tax      Repealed
                      chapter
2-2003   6-30-2003    Adopting annual budget for FY 2003-    Not Included
                      2004
3-2003   6-2-2003     Adopting Utility Commission annual     Not Included
                      budget for FY 2003-2004
4-2003   7-7-2003     Annexing property                      TSO II
5-2003   8-11-2003    Zoning map change                      TSO X
6-2003   9-2-2003     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
7-2003   9-2-2003     Amending annual budget for FY 2002-    Not Included
                      2003
8-2003   10-5-2003    Amending annual budget for FY 2003-    Not Included
                      2004
9-2003   12-1-2003    Amending place of meetings             32.20
1-2004   2-12-2004    Amending annual budget for FY 2003-    Not Included
                      2004
2-2004   3-1-2004     Approving a revenue lease              Not Included
3-2004   4-5-2004     Amending the zoning map                TSO X
4-2004   6-7-2004     Creating a new chapter regarding       99.01 
                      explosives                             99.04
5-2004   5-3-2004     Revising planning and zoning           153.01
                      commission regulations
6-2004   5-3-2004     Adopting the annual budget for FY      Not Included
                      2004-2005
7-2004   5-3-2004     Amending personnel policy and          TSO XIII
                      classification and compensation plan
8-2004   6-7-2004     Adopting Utility Commission annual     Not Included
                      budget for FY 2004-2005
9-2004   6-7-2004     Amending the annual budget for FY      Not Included
                      2003-2004
10-2004  6-7-2004     Creating Ch. 117 regarding alcoholic   Repealed
                      beverage control
11-2004  7-6-2004     Adopting the 2004 S-15 supplement to   -
                      the code of ordinances
12-2004  8-2-2004     Levying a general tax                  Not Included
13-2004  8-2-2004     Revising planning and zoning           153.01
                      commission regulations
14-2004  9-7-2004     Garbage franchise                      TSO VII
15-2004  9-7-2004     Amending Ord. 4-2004 regarding         99.01 
                      explosives                             99.04
16-2004  9-7-2004     Amending the budget for FY 2003-2004   Not Included
18-2004  10-4-2004    Annexing property                      TSO II
19-2004  11-1-2004    Amending the budget for FY 2004-2005   Not Included
20-2004  11-1-2004    Amending human resources and personnel 36.01,
                      policies                               TSO XIII
                                                             50.01 
                                                             50.08,
                                                             51.017,
                                                             51.030,
                                                             51.032,
                                                             51.034,
                                                             51.053 
                                                             51.055,
                                                             51.080,
                      Amending Chapters 50-53 of code of     52.002 
21-2004  12-20-2004   ordinances referring to the Utility    52.007,
                      Commission, sewer and water            52.021 
                      regulations and garbage                52.026,
                                                             52.028 
                                                             52.038,
                                                             52.040,
                                                             52.041,
                                                             52.070 
                                                             52.072,
                                                             52.074,
                                                             52.075,
                                                             53.07
22-2004  1-3-2005     Revising planning and zoning           153.01
                      commission regulations
1-2005   3-7-2005     Amending personnel policy              TSO XIII
2-2005   5-2-2005     Amending the budget for FY 2004-2005   Not Included
3-2005   5-2-2005     Amending the zoning map                TSO X
4-2005   4-4-2005     Amending contracts and agreements      TSO V
5-2005   5-2-2005     Amending the zoning map                TSO X
6-2005   5-16-2005    Revising planning and zoning           153.01
                      commission regulations
7-2005   8-1-2005     Closing Heights Land as a public way   TSO IX
8-2005   6-24-2005    Adopting the annual budget for FY      Not Included
                      2005-2006
9-2005   6-24-2005    Adopting the Utility Commission annual Not Included
                      budget for FY 2005-2006
10-2005  5-16-2005    Amending the zoning map                TSO X
11-2005  7-5-2005     Amending the historic district         156.03
                      commission
12-2005  8-1-2005     Amending personnel policy and          36.01,
                      classification and compensation plan   TSO XIII
                      Creating Ch. 116 regarding Charitable  116.01 
13-2005  11-7-2005    Solicitations                          116.12,
                                                             116.98
14-2005  8-1-2005     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
15-2005  8-1-2005     Amending the zoning map                TSO X
                      Amending Ch. 52 of the code of
16-2005  8-1-2005     ordinances referring to the Utility    52.041
                      Commission, sewer and water
                      regulations and garbage
17-2005  9-21-2005    Annexing property                      TSO II
18-2005  10-3-2005    Amending the budget for FY 2005-2006   Not Included
19-2005  12-5-2005    Annexing property                      TSO II
21-2005  12-5-2005    Amending imposition of tax             Repealed
22-2005  12-5-2005    Revising planning and zoning           153.01
                      commission regulations
23-2005  12-5-2005    Zoning map change                      TSO X
24-2005  1-3-2006     Annexing property                      TSO II
                                                             156.02,
25-2005  1-3-2006     Amending certain provisions of         156.06,
                      historic preservation                  156.07,
                                                             156.09
1-2006   2-6-2006     Amending provisions concerning         92.01,
                      nuisances                              92.03
2-2006   3-6-2006     Zoning map change                      TSO X
3-2006   6-5-2006     Revising Planning and Zoning           153.01
                      Commission regulations
4-2006   3-6-2006     Annexing property                      TSO II
5-2006   3-6-2006     Amending contracts and agreements      TSO V
7-2006   4-3-2006     Establishing methods of voting at City 32.49
                      Council meetings
                      Amending non- elected city officials
8-2006   4-3-2006     by adding provisions regarding the     31.35
                      appointment to positions by the Mayor
11-2006  4-3-2006     Amending provisions relating to        32.38
                      reading of ordinances
10-2006  4-3-2006     Adding drug and alcohol policy         39.060
                                                             92.01,
12-2006  9-5-2006     Amending nuisances and the control of  92.06,
                      noise pollution                        92.07,
                                                             92.99
13-2006  6-5-2006     Zoning map change                      TSO X
18-2006  7-3-2006     Annexing property                      TSO II
19-2006  9-5-2006     Adopting the 2006 S-16 supplement to   -
                      the code of ordinances
20-2006  9-5-2006     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
21-2006  9-5-2006     Amending human resources and personnel 36.01,
                      policies                               TSO XIII
                      Amending Utility Commission, sewer and 50.01,
22-2006  10-1-2006    water regulations and garbage          50.02,
                                                             52.027
24-2006  10-1-2006    Revising Planning and Zoning           153.01
                      Commission regulations
25-2006  12-4-2006    Zoning map change                      TSO X
26-2006  12-4-2006    Annexing property                      TSO II
27-2006  1-2-2007     Amending the budget for FY 2005-2006   Not Included
28-2006  1-2-2006     Amending Ord. 2-86 relating to         91.100,
                      encroachment permits                   TSO XIII
1-2007   3-5-2007     Amending Ch. 98: Parks Mundo Park      98.35,
                      general rules                          TSO XII
2-2007   3-5-2007     Walsh Park general rules               98.20
3-2007   3-5-2007     Amending personnel policies            36.01,
                                                             TSO XIII
4-2007   3-5-2007     Amending personnel policies            36.01,
                                                             TSO XIII
5-2007   3-5-2007     Amending personnel policies            36.01,
                                                             TSO XIII
6-2007   3-5-2007     Revising Zoning Ordinance              153.01
7-2007   3-5-2007     Revising Zoning Ordinance              153.01
8-2007   3-5-2007     Amending contracts and agreements      TSO V
9-2007   3-5-2007     Revising Zoning Ordinance              153.01
10-2007  3-5-2007     Amending personnel policies            36.01,
                                                             TSO XIII
11-2007  3-5-2007     Amending personnel policies            36.01,
                                                             TSO XIII
12-2007  3-5-2007     Office of Code Compliance Officer      31.44
13-2007  4-2-2007     Amending the zoning map                TSO X
15-2007  4-2-2007     Revising Zoning Ordinance              153.01
16-2007  4-9-2007     Encroachment permits                   91.100
17-2007  6-4-2007     Revising Zoning Ordinance              153.01
18-2007  6-4-2007     Amending the budget for FY 2007-2008   Not Included
19-2007  6-4-2007     Amending insurance companies           113.06
20-2007  6-4-2007     Amending the budget for FY 2007-2008   Not Included
22-2007  9-4-2007     Annexing property                      TSO II
23-2007  9-4-2007     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
24-2007  10-2-2007    Amending the zoning map                TSO X
25-2007  10-2-2007    Revising Zoning Ordinance              153.01
26-2007  12-3-2007    Amending the zoning map                TSO X
28-2007  12-3-2007    Business license tax                   110.01 
                                                             110.11
29-2007  1-7-2008     Amending insurance companies           113.02,
                                                             113.03
30-2007  1-7-2008     Amending the zoning map                TSO X
1-2008   2-4-2008     Revising Zoning Ordinance              153.01
2-2008   2-4-2008     Revising Zoning Ordinance              153.01
3-2008   5-5-2008     Amending salaries of Council members   Not Included
4-2008   5-5-2008     Amending salary for the Mayor          Not Included
6-2008   6-2-2008     Amending the budget for FY 2008-2009   Not Included
5-2008   7-7-2008     Amending the budget for FY 2008-2009   Not Included
8-2008   7-7-2008     Revising Zoning Ordinance              153.01
9-2008   7-7-2008     Amending the zoning map                TSO X
10-2008  9-2-2008     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
11-2008  10-6-2008    Amending the zoning map                TSO X
1-2009   3-2-2009     Regulating skateboards and other       73.05
                      similar devices
2-2009   3-2-2009     Amending the zoning map                TSO X
3-2009   4-6-2009     Adopting the 2009 S-18 supplement to   -
                      the code of ordinances
4-2009   5-4-2009     Amending personnel polices and         36.01,
                      procedures and classification plan     TSO XIII
5-2009   6-1-2009     Adopting the budget for FY 2009-2010   Not Included
6-2009   9-8-2009     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
7-2009   1-4-2010     Amending nuisance regulations          92.03
8-2009   1-4-2010     Request for approval to increase       Not Included
                      current water rates
1-2010   3-1-2010     Authorizing bonds                      TSO III
2-2010   4-5-2010     Annexing certain property              TSO II
3-2010   - -          Annexing certain property              TSO II
4-2010               Tabled                                  
5-2010   8-2-2010     Adopting the budget for FY 2010-2011   Not Included
6-2010   7-6-2010     Closing a portion of an alley          TSO IX
7-2010               Tabled                                  
8-2010   9-7-2010     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
9-2010   11-1-2010    Amending County Planning and Zoning    153.01
                      Commission Regulations
1-2011   3-7-2011     Amending membership for Park Board     Repealed
2-2011   3-7-2011     Amending regulations regarding         37.03
                      taxation delinquency
3-2011   4-4-2011     Amending County Planning and Zoning    153.01
4-2011   4-4-2011     Amending parking regulations           72.02
5-2011   5-2-2011     Amending alcoholic beverage control    Repealed
                      regulations
                                                             10.99,
                                                             53.98,
                                                             70.99,
                                                             71.999,
                                                             72.99,
                                                             73.99,
                                                             90.99,
                                                             91.999,
                                                             92.99,
                                                             93.99,
                                                             94.99,
6-2011   5-2-2011     Amending various penalty provisions    96.99,
                                                             97.99,
                                                             98.99,
                                                             99.99,
                                                             112.99,
                                                             114.99,
                                                             115.99,
                                                             116.99,
                                                             139.01,
                                                             150.99,
                                                             152.99,
                                                             154.99,
                                                             156.99
7-2011   6-6-2011     Adopting the budget for FY 2011-2012   Not Included
8-2011   6-6-2011     Adopting municipal Road Aid Fund       Not Included
                                                             98.04,
9-2011   8-1-2011     Amending firearms regulations          98.20,
                                                             98.35
10-2011  9-6-2011     Amending Utility Commission            50.07
                      regulations
11-2011  7-5-2011     Amending County Planning and Zoning    153.01
12-2011  9-6-2011     Amending sewer rates and fees          Repealed
13-2011  8-1-2011     Adopting Ordinance                     Front
14-2011  9-6-2011     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
15-2011  12-5-2011    Adopting penalty provisions for sewer  51.999
                      regulations
16-2011  12-5-2011    Adopting standard operating procedures 35.020
                      for Police Department
17-2011  12-5-2011    Approving recommendation for golf      Not Included
                      course liquor license
2-2012   4-2-2012     Amending regulations regarding         37.03
                      taxation delinquency
3-2012   6-4-2012     Adopting annual budget for FY 2012-    Not Included
                      2013
4-2012   6-4-2012     Amending the zoning map                TSO X
5-2012   6-4-2012     Adopting Municipal Road Aid Fund for   Not Included
                      FY 2012-2013
6-2012   7-2-2012     Amending sewer rates and fees          Repealed
7-2012   7-2-2012     Adopting Utilities Commission budget   Not Included
                      for FY 2012-2013
8-2012   8-6-2012     Amending personnel polices and         36.01,
                      procedures and classification plan     TSO XIII
9-2012   9-4-2012     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
                                                             117.01 
11-2012  9-4-2012     Amending alcoholic beverages           117.21,
                      regulations                            117.99,
                                                             TSO XII
13-2012  11-5-2012    Amending alcoholic beverages           117.07
                      regulations
                      Amending alcoholic beverages           117.07,
14-2012  1-7-2013     regulations                            117.10,
                                                             117.12
1-2013   2-4-2013     Amending regulations regarding         37.03
                      taxation delinquency
2-2013   3-4-2013     Adopting regulations regarding fees    37.06
                      imposed to research tax bills
3-2013   3-4-2013     Amending alcoholic beverages           117.07
                      regulations
4-2013   7-1-2013     Adopting annual budget for FY 2013-    Not Included
                      2014
5-2013   6-3-2013     Adopting Municipal Road Aid Fund for   Not Included
                      FY 2013-2014
6-2013   6-3-2013     Adopting annual bus budget for FY      Not Included
                      2013-2014
7-2013   6-3-2013     Adopting annual alcohol regulatory     Not Included
                      fees budget for FY 2013-2014
                      Adopting regulations regarding         118.01 
8-2013   8-5-2013     compensation tax by persons earning    118.12,
                      wages within the city                  118.99
9-2013   8-5-2013     Amending sewer rates and fees          Repealed
10-2013  8-5-2013     Adopting annual Utilities Commission   Not Included
                      budget for FY 2013-2014
11-2013  7-1-2013     Amending alcoholic beverages           117.07
                      regulations
12-2013  8-5-2013     Annexing certain property              TSO II
13-2013  8-5-2013     Adopting regulations regarding vacant  157.01 
                      residential properties                 157.05
14-2013  8-5-2013     Amending regulations regarding the     156.03
                      Historic Commission
15-2013  8-5-2013     Amending regulations regarding meeting 32.20
                      times and locations for committees
17-2013  9-3-2013     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
18-2013  10-7-2013    Amending fireworks regulations         93.01 
                                                             93.07
19-2013  10-7-2013    Establishing an electric franchise     TSO VII
20-2013  11-4-2013    Amending general business licenses     110.02
                      regulations
21-2013  11-4-2013    Amending alcoholic beverages           117.07
                      regulations
22-2013  11-4-2013    Amending the zoning map                TSO X
23-2013  1-6-2014     Adopting the annual bus budget for FY  Not Included
                      2013-2014
24-2013  1-6-2014     Amending regulations regarding         32.20
                      meetings times for committees
25-2013  1-10-2014    Amending county Planning and Zoning    153.01
                      Commission regulations
1-2014   3-3-2014     Adopting penalties for violation of    153.99
                      zoning regulations
2-2014   3-3-2014     Amending general business licenses     110.02
                      regulations
3-2014   2-3-2014     Amending regulations regarding the     50.02
                      Utility Commission
5-2014   6-2-2014     Amending regulations regarding the     50.02,
                      Utility Commission                     50.07
6-2014   6-2-2014     Amending Historic Commission meeting   156.03
                      times
7-2014   7-1-2013     Adopting annual budget for FY 2013-    Not Included
                      2014
8-2014   6-2-2014     Approving a lease agreement            TSO V
                      Amending regulations regarding water   52.025,
9-2014   6-2-2014     rates, meters, and bills               52.027,
                                                             52.075
10-2014  7-7-2014     Adopting annual budget for FY 2014-    Not Included
                      2015
11-2014  7-7-2014     Adopting municipal Road Aid Fund for   Not Included
                      FY 2014-2015
12-2014  7-7-2014     Adopting annual bus budget for FY      Not Included
                      2014-2015
13-2014  7-7-2014     Adopting the Alcohol Regulatory Fees   Not Included
                      budget for FY 2014-2015
14-2014  10-6-2014    Adopting regulations regarding chicks  90.04,
                      and chickens                           90.09
15-2014  8-4-2014     Adopting sign permit requirement       153.02
                      regulations
16-2014  9-2-2014     Amending general business license      110.02
                      regulations
17-2014  9-2-2014     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
18-2014  10-6-2014    Amending general rules for city parks  98.04
19-2014  11-3-2014    Amending regulations regarding unfit/  155.31
                      unsafe structures
20-2014  12-1-2014    Establishing a code enforcement board  Repealed
1-2015   4-6-2015     Amending the zoning map                TSO X
2-2015   5-4-2015     Approving a lease agreement            TSO V
3-2015   6-1-2015     Amending alcoholic beverages           117.07
                      regulations
4-2015   6-1-2015     Adopting the annual budget for FY      Not Included
                      2015- 2016
5-2015   6-1-2015     Adopting the Municipal Road Aid Fund   Not Included
                      for FY 2015-2016
6-2015   6-1-2015     Adopting annual City Bus Budget for FY Not Included
                      2015- 2016
7-2015   6-1-2015     Adopting the Alcohol Regulatory Fees   Not Included
                      Budget for FY 2015-2016
8-2015   6-1-2015     Amending sidewalk repair and           91.003
                      restoration regulations
9-2015   7-6-2015     Adopting overlay district standards    153.01
10-2015  9-8-2015     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
                                                             40.02,
11-2015  11-2-2015    Concerning procurement standards       40.03,
                                                             TSO XIII
12-2015  11-2-2015    Adopting a new employee handbook for   TSO XII
                      employees of the city
                                                             91.006,
13-2015  11-2-2015    Concerning sidewalks                   91.115,
                                                             TSO XII
15-2015  12-7-2015    Amending the zoning map                TSO X
16-2015  12-7-2015    Amending Personnel Policy and          TSO XIII
                      Classification and Compensation Plan
                                                             52.025,
18-2015  12-7-2015    Amending water and sewer rates         52.026,
                                                             52.075
1-2016   3-7-2016     Concerning the sale of alcohol on      117.10
                      election days
2-2016   3-7-2016     Concerning appeals decisions of the    156.06,
                      Historic District Commission           156.07
4-2016   4-4-2016     Concerning encroachment permits        91.100
6-2016   6-6-2016     Amending zoning map                    TSO X
7-2016   6-6-2016     Concerning business license            110.03
                      application requirements
8-2016   6-6-2016     Adopting the annual budget for FY      Not included
                      2016- 2017
9-2016   6-6-2016     Adopting the annual Municipal Road Aid Not included
                      Fund for FY 2016-2017
10-2016  6-6-2016     Adopting alcohol regulatory fee budget Not included
                      for FY 2016-2017
11-2016  6-6-2016     Adopting the city bus budget for FY    Not included
                      2016- 2017
12-2016  7-5-2016     Amending zoning map                    TSO X
14-2016  9-6-2016     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
15-2016  10-3-2016    Approving lease for the financing of a TSO V
                      project
16-2016  10-3-2016    Amending zoning map                    TSO X
18-2016  12-5-2016    Adopting the zoning ordinance by       153.01
                      reference
19-2016  1-3-2017     Adopting the budget for FY 2016-2017   Not included
2-2017   5-1-2017     Manner of parking                      72.02
5-2017   6-5-2017     Adopting the annual Municipal Road Aid Not included
                      Fund for FY 2017-2018
6-2017   6-5-2017     Adopting the annual city bus budget    Not included
                      for FY 2017-2018
7-2017   6-5-2017     Adopting the annual alcohol regulatory Not included
                      fees budget for FY 2017-2018
8-2017   6-5-2017     Adopting the annual storm water MS4    Not included
                      budget for FY 2017-2018
9-2017   9-5-2017     Amending alcoholic beverages           117.07
                      regulations
10-2017  9-5-2017     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
                      Amending Ord. 8-2017, adopting the
11-2017  8-7-2017     annual storm water MS4 budget for FY   Not included
                      2017-2018
12-2017  8-7-2017     Closing and vacation part of Poplar    TSO IX
                      Alley
13-2017  9-5-2017     Adopting the annual budget for FY      Not included
                      2017-2018
14-2017  11-6-2017    Amending Ord. 13-2017, adopting the    Not included
                      annual budget for FY 2017-2018
16-2017  12-4-2017    Amending regulations regarding the     50.03,
                      Utility Commission                     50.06
17-2017  12-4-2017    Fishing policy at Wilborn Park, the    98.05
                      Glen, and Eagle Creek Golf Course
19-2017  1-3-2018     Amending the Mayor s compensation      Not included
                      Amending regulations regarding
2-2018   3-5-2018     billing, delinquency, and              52.075
                      discontinuance of utility services
4-2018   6-4-2018     Adopting annual municipal road aid     Not included
                      fund for FY 2018-2019
5-2018   6-4-2018     Adopting annual city bus budget for FY Not included
                      2018-2019
6-2018   6-4-2018     Adopting alcohol regulatory fees       Not included
                      budget for FY 2018-2019
7-2018   6-4-2018     Adopting the annual storm water MS4    Not included
                      for FY 2018-2019
8-2-18   7-2-2018     Amending county Planning and Zoning    153.01
                      Commission regulations
9-2018   8-6-2018     Amending water service rates           Repealed
10-2018  9-4-2018     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
                      Adopting regulations prohibiting       140.01 
11-2018  9-4-2018     smoking in the city                    140.05,
                                                             140.99
12-2018  9-4-2018     Adopting Oldham County MS4 program     54.01
                      stormwater ordinances
13-2018  10-1-2018    Amending alcoholic beverages           117.07
                      regulations
14-2018  10-1-2018    Amending zoning map                    TSO X
                      Amending regulations regarding
16-2018  12-3-2018    billing, delinquency, and              52.075
                      discontinuance of utility services
17-2018  12-3-2018    Accepting and dedicating a road into   TSO I
                      the city system
3-2019   6-3-2019     Adopting the annual budget for FY      Not included
                      2019-2020
4-2019   6-3-2019     Adopting annual municipal road aid     Not included
                      fund for FY 2019-2020
5-2019   6-3-2019     Adopting annual city bus budget for FY Not included
                      2019-2020
6-2019   6-3-2019     Adopting alcohol regulatory fees       Not included
                      budget for FY 2019-2020
7-2019   6-3-2019     Adopting the annual storm water MS4    Not included
                      for FY 2019-2020
8-2019   6-3-2019     Short-term rental properties           119.15 119.19
9-2019   6-3-2019     Rental property registration           119.01 
                                                             119.04
10-2019  9-3-2019     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
11-2019  9-3-2019     Tourist and Convention Commission      35.080,
                                                             35.081
12-2019  11-4-2019    International property maintenance     155.15,
                      code                                   155.16
13-2019  11-4-2019    Golf cart regulations                  73.06
14-2019  12-2-2019    Amending county Planning and Zoning    153.01
                      Commission regulations
15-2019  1-6-2020     Amending parked vehicle for sale       72.11
                      regulations
1-2020   3-2-2020     Amending the zoning map                TSO X
2-2020   3-2-2020     Amendments and corrections to the      Repealed
                      Utility Commission rates
3-2020   6-1-2020     Adopting the FY 2020-2021 budget       Not included
4-2020   6-1-2020     Adopting the annual municipal road aid Not included
                      fund for FY 2020-2021
5-2020   6-1-2020     Adopting annual city bus budget for FY Not included
                      2020-2021
6-2020   6-1-2020     Adopting alcohol regulatory fees       Not included
                      budget for FY 2020-2021
7-2020   6-1-2020     Adopting the annual storm water MS4    Not included
                      for FY 2020-2021
                                                             37.02,
8-2020   9-8-2020     Levying general ad valorem tax         37.03,
                                                             TSO XI
9-2020   9-8-2020     Repealing sections relating to the     TSO XII
                      Parks Board
                      Amending code relating to the Code     35A.01 
10-2020  10-5-2020    Enforcement Board and creating a new   35A.15,
                      chapter                                TSO XII
                      Authorizing the issuance of general
11-2020  12-7-2020    obligation bonds, Series 2020, for     TSO III
                      Phase 1 of the La Grange Springs Park
-2020    12-3-2020    Amending historic preservation         156.07
                      ordinance
1-2021   4-5-2021     Comprehensive Plan                     153.01
2-2021   6-7-2021     Adopting the FY 2021-2022 budget       Not included
3-2021   6-7-2021     Adopting the annual municipal road aid Not included
                      fund for FY 2021-2022
4-2021   6-7-2021     Adopting annual city bus budget for FY Not included
                      2021-2022
5-2021   6-7-2021     Adopting alcohol regulatory fees       Not included
                      budget for FY 2021-2022
6-2021   6-7-2021     Adopting the annual storm water MS4    Not included
                      for FY 2021-2022
7-2021   6-7-2021     Adopting the compensation tax fund     Not included
                      budget for FY 2021- 2022
                                                             52.059,
8-2021   8-2-2021     Water and sewer rates and charges      52.073,
                                                             TSO XII
10-2021  10-4-2021    Amending the FY 2021-2022 budget       Not included
11-2021  10-4-2021    Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
12-2021  10-4-2021    Accepting and dedicating a road into   TSO I
                      the city system
13-2021  12-6-2021    Amending zoning map                    TSO X
14-2021  1-3-2022     Amending zoning map                    TSO X
15-2021  1-3-2022     Amending methods of procurement        40.02
                                                             110.02,
                                                             110.99,
                                                             111.01 
1-2022   4-11-2022    Temporary vendor permits               111.03,
                                                             111.05,
                                                             111.08 
                                                             111.11,
                                                             111.99
3-2022   6-6-2022     Adopting the FY 2022-2023 budget       Not included
4-2022   6-6-2022     Adopting the annual municipal road aid Not included
                      fund for FY 2022-2023
5-2022   6-6-2022     Adopting alcohol regulatory fees       Not included
                      budget for FY 2022-2023
6-2022   6-6-2022     Adopting the annual storm water MS4    Not included
                      for FY 2022-2023
7-2022   6-6-2022     Adopting compensation tax fund budget  Not included
                      for FY 2022- 2023
8-2022   6-6-2022     Adopting annual city bus budget for FY Not included
                      2022-2023
9-2022   8-1-2022     City Council meetings                  32.21
10-2022  8-1-2022     Amending zoning map                    TSO X
11-2022  9-6-2022     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
12-2022  10-3-2022    Closing portion of Third Avenue        TSO IX
                                                             118.01 
14-2022  12-5-2022    Amending compensation tax              118.12,
                                                             118.99
1-2023   4-3-2023     Amending zoning map                    TSO X
2-2023   4-3-2023     Amending number of chickens within     90.09
                      city limits
3-2023   5-1-2023     Horse-drawn vehicles                   120.01 120.06,
                                                             120.99
4-2023   - -2023      Amending utility rates                 Repealed
5-2023   5-1-2023     City Officials Training Program        32.60 
                                                             32.65
6-2023   5-1-2023     Human Resources Director               31.45
7-2023   6-5-2023     Adopting the FY 2023-2024 budget       Not included
8-2023   6-5-2023     Adopting the annual municipal road aid Not included
                      fund for FY 2023-2024
9-2023   6-5-2023     Adopting alcohol regulatory fees       Not included
                      budget for FY 2023-2024
10-2023  6-5-2023     Adopting annual city bus budget for FY Not included
                      2023-2024
11-2023  6-5-2023     Adopting the annual storm water MS4    Not included
                      for FY 2023-2024
12-2023  7-3-2023     Amending zoning map                    TSO X
13-2023  8-7-2023     Amending zoning map                    TSO X
14-2023  9-5-2023     Amending Comprehensive Zoning          153.01
                      Ordinance
15-2023  9-5-2023     Amending procurement methods           40.02
16-2023  9-5-2023     Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
18-2023  10-2-2023    Finance Director                       31.46
19-2023  11-6-2023    Amending Comprehensive Zoning          153.01
                      Ordinance
20-2023  1-3-2024     Short-term rental property             119.20,
                                                             TSO XII
                                                             50.01,
                                                             50.02,
                      Amending regulations regarding the     50.06 
1-2024   2-5-2024     Utility Commission                     50.08,
                                                             50.10,
                                                             52.055,
                                                             52.059
2-2024   3-4-2024     Release of lighter-than-air-objects    92.08
3-2024   - -2024      Adopting Code of Ordinances            Not included
5-2024   3-4-2024     Amending Council Member Compensation   36.01,
                                                             TSO XIII
6-2024   5-6-2024     Annexation                             TSO II
7-2024   7-1-2024     Amending personnel policies and        36.01,
                      procedures                             TSO XIII
8-2024   6-3-2024     Adopting2024/2025 budget               Not included
9-2024   6-3-2024     Adopting alcohol regulatory fees       Not included
                      budget for 2024/2025 fiscal year
10-2024  6-3-2024     Adopting the city bus budget for 2024/ Not included
                      2025 fiscal year
11-2024  6-3-2024     Adopting the annual storm water MS4    Not included
                      for the 2024/2025 fiscal year
12-2024  6-3-2024     Adopting annual Municipal Road Aid     Not included
                      Fund for 2024/2025 fiscal year
13-2024  9-18-2024    Levying general ad valorem tax         TSO XI
14-2024  10-4-2024    Allowing medical cannabis business     121.01—
                      operations within city limits          121.03
16-2024  10-7-2024    Amending zoning map                    TSO X
2-2025   4-7-2025     Amending existing sewers provisions    51.033
                                                           
 
 
Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by the City
of LaGrange beginning with 2023. The table includes links to the ordinances, as
maintained in PDF format. For other legislation, including ordinances passed
prior to 2023, please contact the City of LaGrange.
 
Ordinances that amend the Code and are not yet effective have their
identifiying information highlighted in yellow. Changes made by those
ordinances are not incorporated into the text of the Code until the amending
ordinances are effective. Ordinances that do not affect the code have been
grayed out.
 
Jump to:
Ordinances
Ordinances
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.  Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                      Amending Zoning Map
1-2023    4-3-2023     
                      TSO X
                      Amending chickens within city limits
2-2023    4-3-2023     
                      90.09
                      Regulating horse-drawn vehicles
3-2023    5-1-2023     
                      Adding Chapter 120 (120.01 - 120.06, 120.99)
                      Amending water meter installation fees; sewer tapping
4-2023    4-3-2023    fees; portable meter rental
                       
                      52.056, 52.058
                      Establishing City Officials training program
5-2023    5-1-2023     
                      Adding 32.50 - 32.55, 32.40
                      Establishing Office of Human Resources Director
6-2023    5-1-2023     
                      Adding 31.45
7-2023    6-5-2023    Adopting annual Budget
8-2023    6-5-2023    Adopting Municipal Road Aid fund
9-2023    6-5-2023    Adopting Alcohol Regulatory Fees budget
10-2023   6-5-2023    Adopting annual City Bus budget
11-2023   6-5-2023    Adopting annual Storm Water MS4 budget
                      Amending Zoning Map
12-2023   7-3-2023     
                      TSO X
                      Amending Zoning Map
13-2023   8-7-2023     
                      TSO X
                      Amending Zoning Ordinance
14-2023   9-5-2023     
                      153.01
                      Amending methods of procurement
15-2023   9-5-2023     
                      40.02
                      Levying a general tax
16-2023   9-5-2023     
                      TSO XI
                      Establishing Office of Finance Director
18-2023   10-2-2023    
                      Adding 31.46
                      Amending Zoning Ordinance regarding short term rental
19-2023   11-6-2023   property
                       
                      153.01
1-2024    6----2024   Revising "City of La Grange Employee Handbook 2024
                      Edition"
2-2024    3-4-2024    Regulating release of lighter-than-air objects
3-2024                
                      Amending compensation of council members
5-2024    3-4-2024     
                      36.01, TSO XIII
6-2024    5-6-2024    Annexing 3.726 acres or property at Zhale Smith Road and
                      Highway 53
                      Adopting revised "City of La Grange Employee Handbook
7-2024    7-1-2024    2024 Edition"
                       
                      36.01, TSO XIII
8-2024    6-3-2024    La Grange, KY city budget
9-2024    6-3-2024    Alcohol regulatory fees budget
10-2024   6-3-2024    City bus budget
11-2024   6-3-2024    Stormwater budget
12-2024   6-3-2024    Road aid budget
                      Resolution supporting Oldham County Fiscal Court's
R-2-2024  5-6-2024    adoption of KY codes: building, residential, heating and
                      air conditioning contractor's act, and other safety
                      codes.
                      Levying a general tax
13-2024   9-18-2024    
                      TSO XI
                      Allowing medical cannabis business operations within the
14-2024   10-7-2024   city linits
                       
                      Chapter 121
                      Amending Zoning Map
16-2024   10-7-2024    
                      TSO X
                      Resolution opposing any bills brought forth during the
R-01-2025 3-3-2025    2025 Kentucky General Assembly session that provides for
                      the mandated centralized collection of local occupational
                      fees/taxes
R-02-2025 3-3-2025    Resolution authorizing deposits
                      Resolution authorizing an application with the U.S.
                      Department of Transportation for Grants under the
R-03-2025 3-3-2025    Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act and committing the
                      local share of funds necessary to secure a grant
                      application
                      Amending code regarding property owner connections to
2-2025    4-7-2025    existing sewers
                       
                      51.033
                     
                     
 
 
