LEITCHFIELD, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-29 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-31, passed 12-16-24; and
State legislation current through KRS 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO.  2001-5
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LEITCHFIELD, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems, Florence, Kentucky, has completed
the 2000 S-7 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Leitchfield,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
adoption of the 1999 S-6 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said Burlington Publishing Systems has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of
Leitchfield, Commonwealth of Kentucky :
   SECTION 1. That the 200 S-7 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Leitchfield, as submitted by Burlington Publishing Systems, and as attached
hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its
entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Date of First Reading:     5-7-01
Date of Second Reading:    5-21-01
Date Published:
   /s/ William H. Thomason
/s/ Kerry White
City Clerk/Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO.  2002-6
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LEITCHFIELD, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems, Florence, Kentucky, has completed
the 2001 S-8 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Leitchfield,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
adoption of the 2000 S-7 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said Burlington Publishing Systems has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of
Leitchfield, Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 2001 S-8 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Leitchfield as submitted by Burlington Publishing Systems and as
attached hereto be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in
its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Date of First Reading:       3-4-02
Date of Second Reading:    3-18-02
Date Published:       3-25-02
       /s/ William S. Thompson
      Mayor
/s/ Kelly White
City Clerk/Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO.  2003-4
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LEITCHFIELD, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Leitchfield,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statues;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Leitchfield:
   SECTION 1. That the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Leitchfield, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 5th day of May, 2003.
       /s/ William S. Thompson  
      Mayor
/s/ Kelly White
City Clerk/Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO.  2005-4
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LEITCHFIELD, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2005 S-10 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Leitchfield, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statues;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Leitchfield:
   SECTION 1. That the 2005 S-10 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Leitchfield, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 5th day of July, 2005.
Passed on First Reading       June 20, 2005
Adopted on Second Reading       July 5, 2005
Signed by Mayor          July 5, 2005
Published in the Paper          July 2005
Recorded by Clerk          July 5, 2005
       /s/ William S. Thompson  
      Mayor
/s/ Kelly White
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2006-8
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LEITCHFIELD, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2006 S-11 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Leitchfield, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Leitchfield:
   SECTION 1. That the 2006 S-11 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Leitchfield, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 15th day of May, 2006.
Passed on First Reading       May 1, 2006
Adopted on Second Reading       May 15, 2006
Signed by Mayor          May 15, 2006
Published in the Paper          May 2006
Recorded by Clerk          May 15, 2006
       /s/ William H. Thomason
      Mayor
/s/ Kerry White
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2007-3
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LEITCHFIELD, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2006 S-12 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Leitchfield, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statues;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Leitchfield:
   SECTION 1. That the 2006 S-12 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Leitchfield, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this  21st  day of May , 2007.
Passed on First Reading May 1, 2007
Adopted on Second Reading May 21, 2007
Signed by Mayor June 2007
Published in the Paper June 2007
Recorded by Clerk June 2007
   /s/ William H. Thomason
    Mayor
Kerry White /s/
City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Leitchfield Code, for which designation "codified ordinances" or "code" may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010 (1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS.  The automated vehicle information system established and maintained
by the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information
on vehicles and boat and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   BUSINESS TRUST. Includes, except when utilized in KRS Chapter 386, a
statutory trust as organized under KRS Chapter 386A.
(KRS 446.010(6))
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Any method of governmental, commercial, or electronic
delivery that allows a document or package to have proof of:
      (1)   Sending the document or package;
      (2)   The date the document or package was delivered or delivery was
attempted; and
      (3)   The signature of the receipt of the document or package.
(KRS 446.010(8))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Leitchfield irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, partnership,
joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body. (KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Grayson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees. (KRS
446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state. (KRS 446.010(14)
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor. (KRS 83A.010(6))
   EXECUTIVE ORDER. An order issued by the Mayor which is binding upon the
officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which the
city has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010(7))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state. (KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council. (KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Councilman. (KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine or camelid
species. (KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MISDEMEANOR. An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1) or both.
(KRS 83A.065)
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPAL ORDER. An official act of the city council which is binding upon
the officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which
the municipality has jurisdiction.
(KRS 83A.010(9))
   MUNICIPALITY. The city of Leitchfield, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   OFFICER. Any person elected to a position by the voters or any person
appointed to a position which:
   (A)   Is created by the Constitution, the General Assembly, or a city;
   (B)   Possesses a delegation of a portion of the sovereign power of
government;
   (C)   Has powers and duties to be discharged which are conferred directly or
by implication by the city;
   (D)   Has duties performed independently and without control of a superior
power other than the law;
   (E)   Has some permanency;
   (F)   Requires an official oath;
   (G)   Is assigned by a commission or other written authority; and
   (H)   Provides for an official bond if required by proper authority.
(KRS 83A.010(10))
   ORDINANCE. An official act of a city legislative body, which is a regulation
of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law or is an
appropriation of money.
(KRS 83A.010(11))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Any governmental, commercial, or electronic method of
delivery that allows a document or package to have:
      (1)   Its chain of custody recorded in a register to enable its location
to be tracked;
      (2)   Insurance available to cover its loss; and
      (3)   The signature of the recipient of the document or package available
to the sender.
(KRS 446.010(36))
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   RESOLUTION. A resolution is a less formal mechanism for dealing with matters
of a special or temporary character. While an ordinance, and to a large extent
a municipal order, involves a  distinctly legislative act, a resolution is
simply an expression of the opinion, will or policy of the legislative body on
some matter of ministerial business which has come before the body.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED  in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   VIOLATION. An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the amount
set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(c).
(KRS 83A.065)
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed l-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a "statutory reference" following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
      § 31.10 MAYOR.
         The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the Mayor.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
      Statutory reference:
         For powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   When an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is specifically provided, the offense shall be
deemed a violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each
offense.
Statutory reference:
   Fine amount for ordinance violations authorized by state law, see KRS
83A.065 and 534.040
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
         
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
         
32.   CITY COUNCIL
         
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
         
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
         
34A.   PUBLIC MEETINGS
         
35.   TAXATION
         
36.   DISCRIMINATION BASED ON DISABILITY STATUS
         
37.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
         
38.   HUMAN RESOURCES
         
38A.   CODE OF ETHICS
         
39.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
         
40.   DEPARTMENTS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the "Mayor-
Council Plan."
(KRS 83A.130 (1)) (Ord. passed 12-15-80)
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130 (2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of six members.
(KRS 83A.030 (1)) (Ord. passed 12-15-80)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath of office
   
31.02   Bond
   
31.03   Compensation
   
31.04   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Councilmembers
Non-elected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of non-elected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.37   City Administrative Officer
   
31.38   City Attorney
   
31.39   Fire Chief
   
31.40   Public Works Director
   
31.41   Finance Officer
   
31.42   Code Enforcement Officer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the discharge of
duties of his office, take the following oath: "I do solemnly swear (or affirm,
as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of the United States
and the Constitution of this Commonwealth, and be faithful and true to the
Commonwealth of Kentucky so long as I continue a citizen thereof, and that I
will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the office of
______________ according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm)
that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I, being a citizen of
this State, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a
second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus
offending, so help me God", as established by Section 228 of the Kentucky
Constitution.
   (B)   Certification of oath. Certification of the person administering the
oath of office to an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath
was administered and the date of its administration. Said certification shall
be filed in accordance with KRS 62.020.
31.02 BOND.
   (A)   All officers, officials and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments and special districts who handle
public funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient
bond to the local governing body for the faithful and honest performance of his
or her duties and as security for all money coming into that person's hands or
under that person's control. The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum
amount of public funds the officer, official or employee handles at any given
time during a fiscal year cycle. The local governing body shall pay the cost of
the bond.
   (B)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with subsection (A) of this section.
(KRS Chapter 65)
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer's compensation shall not be changed after his
election or during his term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of mayors and councilmembers
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with section 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than $12,000 per annum and mayors in cities other than the first class
and councilmembers shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees
and non-elected officers in accordance with the employment and pay
classification plan ordinance of the city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.04 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the City
Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his removal. No elected officer shall be removed without having
been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the
right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on
the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Non-elected officers. Non-elected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance. Upon
removal of a non-elected officer at will, the Mayor shall give the officer a
written statement setting forth the reason or reasons for the removal. However,
this requirement shall not be construed as limiting in any way the at-will
dismissal power of the Mayor.
(KRS 83A.080(3))
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of non-elected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The election of city officers shall be under nonpartisan city election
laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A.
(Ord. passed 12-15-80)
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Councilmembers may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
   Election to fill unexpired term of city offices, see KRS 83A.165
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one calendar year prior to his or her
election. His term of office begins on the first day of January following his
or her election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor
qualifies. If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a
vacancy and serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service
shall not be considered for the purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 25 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(Ord. passed 12-15-80; Am. Ord. passed 6-18-84; Am. Ord. passed 1-18-93)
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1),(2),(6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council.. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the Mayor's electronic mail address and
includes also the Mayor's handwritten signature. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring
after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. If a resignation
date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed to become
effective at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring
on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He shall supervise all
departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his jurisdiction and require each department to make reports to
him as required by ordinance or as he deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually. He shall make any recommendations for
actions by the Council he finds in the public interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor's power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order. Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a permanent file
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by executive
order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties
of his office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed, in
accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not delegate the
responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the authority to
approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may only be
delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the Mayor may
rescind any action taken in his absence under this section within 30 days of
such action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his
duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared
vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the provisions of §
31.21(C) shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
      (9)   The Mayor shall have all other powers and duties set forth in the
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. passed 12-15-80)
   (E)   Compensation. The Mayor shall receive the sum of $2,500.00 per month
as his compensation, beginning on the first day in January 2007, said amount to
be adjusted annually by the percentage of increase or decrease in the consumer
price index as calculated by the Kentucky Department for Local Government.
(Ord. passed 1-18-93; Am. Ord. 97-19, passed 12-1-97; Am. Ord. 2004-15, passed
12-26-04)
§ 31.22 COUNCILMEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
NON-ELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NON-ELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All non-elected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all non-elected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All non-elected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance. Upon removal of a non-elected
officer at will, the Mayor shall give the officer a written statement setting
forth the reason or reasons for the removal. However, this requirement shall
not be construed as limiting in any way the at-will dismissal power of the
Mayor.
(KRS 83A.080(3))
   (D)   The following are non-elected city offices:
      (1)   City Administrative Officer;
      (2)   City Attorney;
      (3)   City Clerk/Treasurer;
      (4)   Fire Chief;
      (5)   Public Works Director.
Statutory reference:
   Non-elected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1),(2),(3)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk/Treasurer shall include,
but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the "official custodian" or
"custodian" pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail to the Department for
Local Government a list containing current city information including, but not
limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the
following appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk/Treasurer;
            2.   City Manager;
            3.   City Attorney;
            4.   Finance Director;
            5.   Police Chief;
            6.   Fire Chief;
            7.   Public Works Director.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall, and
telephone number of the city hall;
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (5)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall receive and safely keep all money
belonging to the city. He shall pay it out as directed by order of the City
Council. He shall keep an accurate account of all receipts and disbursements,
showing when, from whom and to whom, for what purpose and on what account all
city funds were received or paid, and shall exhibit the account so kept. At the
first regular meeting of the City Council each month, the Clerk/Treasurer shall
send his report to the City Council. Every three months he shall make a
financial exhibit, giving an itemized statement of all receipts, with their
sources and an itemized statement of all disbursements, with their purposes,
and shall have the exhibit entered upon the records of his office. He shall
annually prepare and publish the statement required by KRS 424.220. He shall
have such powers as are required for the discharge of his duties.
      (6)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall perform the duties of the collector
of taxes and city clerk. No demand shall be necessary for the collection of
taxes and other amounts due to the city, but they shall be payable at the
office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (7)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk or City Treasurer by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (D)    No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk/Treasurer
unless such person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the
Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if
required, with corporate surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and
conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
(Ord. passed 5-22-80; Am. Ord. passed 12-15-80; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-82; Am.
Ord. 2019-14, passed 9-26-19)
§ 31.37 CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Administrative
Officer.
   (B)   The City Administrative Officer shall have sufficient professional
training and experience in administration to insure his competency in
performing the duties required of such city officer.
   (C)   The City Administrative Officer shall advise the Mayor on matters of
policy formulation on municipal problems. The Officer shall have the major
responsibility for the preparation and administration of the city budget under
the direction of the Mayor. The Officer shall advise the Mayor on personnel
decisions, including the appointment of subordinate administrative personnel;
the Officer shall have continuing, direct relationships with operating
department heads on implementation and administration of municipal programs;
and the Officer shall carry out such other additional duties and have the
additional responsibilities as may be assigned by the Mayor with the same
powers as the Mayor in carrying out such duties.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall take the oath as required by section 228
of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, but shall not be required
to provide bond.
   (E)   The City Administrator shall receive such compensation as may be
determined by the City Council in accordance with the city 's pay
classification plan.
§ 31.38 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Attorney.
   (B)   The City Attorney must be a practicing attorney.
   (C)   The City Attorney shall attend the meetings of the city legislative
body, advise it in all matters of litigation or legal proceedings and perform
such other duties as may be required by the legislative body and the executive
authority. The City Attorney shall have the power to do all acts reasonably
necessary in the discharge of his duties.
   (D)   The City Attorney shall take the oath required by section 228 of the
Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, but shall not be required to
provide bond.
   (E)   The City Attorney shall receive the compensation set forth in the city
employment and pay classification plan, which may hereafter be changed by
municipal order.
   (F)   The City Attorney shall be appointed by the executive authority of the
city with the approval of the legislative body which is elected at the November
election preceding the commencement of his or her term. He or she shall hold
his or her office for a period of two years and until his or her successor is
appointed subject to removal at any time, the first of said terms to begin on
the first Monday of January 1982. Provided, however, that the present City
Attorney shall complete the previously appointed term which shall expire on the
first Monday of January 1982.
(Ord. passed 12-15-80; Am. Ord. 2019-14, passed 9-26-19)
§ 31.39 FIRE CHIEF.
   For provisions concerning the Fire Chief see §
37.03.
§ 31.40 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the Public Works Director.
   (B)   The Public Works Director shall perform such duties and
responsibilities required by statute or ordinance.
   (C)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02 and shall be in accordance with the city's employment and pay
classification plan.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as Public Works Director unless
such person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
§ 31.41 FINANCE OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the non-elective city office entitled “Finance
Officer”, who shall take the Constitutional Oath and shall execute bond with
surety to be approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The Finance Officer shall to plan, organize, coordinate and evaluate
the annual audit for the city and the Leitchfield Utilities Commission and such
other financially related matters as may be appropriate as related to financial
management.
(Ord. 2013-09, passed 7-1-13)
§ 31.42 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The employment positions of Code Enforcement Officers are hereby
established. Code Enforcement Officers are granted the authority to issue civil
citations for violations of the codes of the City of Leitchfield. At least one
of the Code Enforcement Officers shall attend each meetings of the Code
Enforcement Board. Code Enforcement Officers shall investigate alleged code
violations and perform tasks required to enforce the codes of the City of
Leitchfield.
(Ord. 2021-19, passed 11-15-21; Am. Ord. 2024-15, passed 5-6-24)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Hearing procedures prior to appointment to a board or commission
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
   
32.23   Council to adopt rules for proceedings and government
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk/Treasurer; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Councilmember shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for council shall
be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following the
election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications.
      (1)   A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a qualified
voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
      (2)   No member of the City Council shall be interested in any contract
with the city or be in arrears to the city for money collected or withheld
without a settlement or quietus therefor.
      (3)   The absence of the qualifications or the existence of any of the
disqualifications provided for in this division (B) shall render a person
ineligible to be a member of the City Council, and the Council shall so declare
and fill the vacancy.
   (C)   Compensation. Members of the City Council shall each receive the sum
of $600.00 per month as compensation beginning on the first day in January,
2007 said amount to be adjusted annually by the percentage of increase or
decrease in the consumer price index as calculated by the Kentucky Department
for Local Government.
(Ord. passed 12-15-80; Am. Ord. 97-18, passed 12-1-97; Am. Ord. 2004-16, passed
12-26-04)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
selection as will enable him to meet and act with the remaining members in
making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If vacancies occur
in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall appoint qualified
persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a quorum. Remaining
vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the member’s electronic
mail address and includes also the member's handwritten signature. The
resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the
City Council occurring after the date specified in the written letter of
resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the City Council occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety, and welfare.
(KRS 83A.130 (12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130 (12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council's action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his designee on behalf of any department, office,
or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130 (13))
§ 32.04 HEARING PROCEDURES PRIOR TO APPOINTMENT TO A BOARD OR COMMISSION.
   Prior to membership on any board or commission that requires appointment by
the Mayor and approval by the City Council, the recommended appointee shall
appear before the City Council at a regular or special meeting so that it can
hold a hearing regarding the appointee. The hearing shall allow members of the
City Council to examine the appointee’s qualifications, to discuss with the
appointee the requirements of the position, and to ask questions of the
appointee. This hearing requirement shall only refer to members newly appointed
a board or commission. Those members being re-appointed to a new term shall not
be required to attend a meeting of the City Council; their hearing shall take
place in executive session.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 6-19-23)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. In his absence,
the City Council shall elect a Mayor Pro Tem from among its members, who shall
preside at the meeting.
(Ord. passed 12-15-80)
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130 (5))
Cross-reference:
   Council's responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held the first and third
Mondays of each month at the hour of 6:00 p.m. prevailing local time at the
city hall. Provided, however, that in the event the Monday upon which the
meeting is regularly scheduled is a holiday observed by the city, the regular
meeting of the City Council shall be held the following business day at the
hour of 6:00 p.m. prevailing time at the city hall.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Councilmembers and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
(Ord. passed 12-15-80)
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130 (11)) (Ord. 2003-13, passed 11-3-03)
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060 (6))
§ 32.23 COUNCIL TO ADOPT RULES FOR PROCEEDINGS AND GOVERNMENT.
   The City Councilmembers shall adopt rules, not inconsistent with statute,
for its proceedings and government.
(Ord. passed 12-15-80)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060 (1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled "Be it ordained by the City of Leitchfield."
(KRS 83A.060 (2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060 (3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060 (4),(7))
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council together
with a statement of his objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor's approval unless he
fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after receiving it
or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor's veto, upon reconsideration
of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its
return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130 (6))
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060 (5))
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk/Treasurer and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060 (8)) (Ord. passed 12-15-80)
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk/Treasurer in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))(Ord. passed 12-15-80)
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
City Council. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060 (12), (13))
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK/TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk/Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (14))
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmembers shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060 (15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Purchase orders
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Procurement of Community Development Block Grant Funds
   
33.30   Procurement standards
   
33.31   Procurement transactions considered restrictive in trade prohibited
   
33.32   Director of Community Development to review purchases
   
33.33   Methods for procurement
   
33.34   Small purchase procedures
   
33.35   Competitive sealed bids
   
33.36   Competitive negotiation
   
33.37   Non-competitive negotiations
   
33.38   [Reserved]
   
33.39   Documentation
   
33.40   Locally owned, minority owned, female owned and small businesses
   
33.41   Code of conduct
   
33.42   Contractors in violation to be barred from future transactions
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91A.010(6))
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The following standards shall apply to the form and detail in which
the annual budget proposal of the city is to be prepared:
      (1)   Purpose of budget proposal. The annual budget proposal shall set
forth the anticipated revenue from all sources, including grants and transfers,
and the proposed expenditure of money for specified programs, functions,
activities, or objectives of the city, including all principle and interest due
on debt, for the budget year. The total of anticipated revenues shall equal or
exceed the total of proposed expenditures.
      (2)   Form. The form of the annual budget proposal shall be consistent in
form, to the extent practical, with the accounting system of the city.
      (3)   Contents. The annual budget proposal shall provide a complete
program and financial plan for all funds for the budget year. It shall contain:
         (a)   A budget message, as specified in KRS 91A.030(7);
         (b)   An estimate of fund balance carry-forward, as specified in
division (4) below;
         (c)   An estimate of anticipated transfers, as specified in division
(5) below.
      (4)   Fund balance carry-forward. Each fund balance available for
appropriation shall be limited to the amount by which assets are estimated to
exceed liabilities at the beginning of the budget year.
      (5)   Anticipated transfer from other funds. Any anticipated excess
revenues, if legally available for general purposes and to the extent such
excess is to be used to support other funds, shall be stated as a transfer item
in the annual budget proposal.
(Ord. passed - - )
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs, and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
Section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. These reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of a city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond existing appropriations
are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate, or warrant
for the payment of money by the city in any way to any extent, beyond the
balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the auditor of public accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic
copy of the audit report to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes by no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited.
   (B)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (C)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under division (A) of this section to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor
of Public Accounts.
   (D)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include but not be limited to requirements that:
      (1)   The Auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements,
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The Auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual or biennial audit report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or Federal funds, appropriate
state or Federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The Auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The Auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit;
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the city legislative body at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's work papers upon request.
      (7)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this
section shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official
request to a city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial
requirements, or requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary
to carry out the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
      (8)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit
to the city legislative body, publish an advertisement in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424 containing:
         (a)   The auditor's opinion letter;
         (b)   The “budgetary comparison schedules-major funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
         (c)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
         (d)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
         (e)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy
of the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a
rate that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
         (f)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
      (9)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city
may bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this
section. Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be
subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the
discretion of the court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action
brought by any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city.
The costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of
the resident or property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against
the unsuccessful party.
      (10)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in division (A) of this section, the city may
submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department for Local
Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local Government. The
Department for Local Government shall approve the request if it is submitted on
or before the applicable deadline, and in the judgment of the Department for
Local Government the request is warranted by extenuating circumstances beyond
the control of the city. Extensions granted under this subsection shall not
exceed nine months from the original due date of the audit or financial
statement. If the Department for Local Government approves an extension for a
city and the city fails to complete and submit the required audit or financial
statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then the provisions of
division (11) of this section shall apply.
      (11)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and
submit it to the Department for Local Government as required in division (A)
and division (10) of this section, the Department for Local Government shall
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to
comply with the audit requirements of this section, and that any funds in the
possession of any agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be
withheld from the city until further notice. The Department for Local
Government shall immediately notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when
the city complies with the requirements of division (A) and division (10) of
this section for all prior fiscal years it has failed to comply with the audit
requirements of this section, and the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall
direct the reinstatement of payments to the city, including any funds that were
withheld due to the non-compliance.
      (12)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit
or examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the
city for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050.
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city's official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. 1823 to the extent uninsured by any obligation,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 40.241(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
§ 33.06 PURCHASE ORDERS.
   (A)   No charge on city credit shall be considered or honored unless the
item purchased shall first have been considered by the head of the Department
desiring to so charge, and a purchase order shall have been signed by that
Department head.
   (B)   The purchase orders shall be in a form provided by the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (C)   Each invoice presented to the City Clerk/Treasurer shall be
accompanied by the purchase order signed by the Department head.
(Ord. passed - - )
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefited by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement;
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined;
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through 33.17 applies if additional property is included in the
improvement or if change is made in the method or period of financing; but
additional property may be included in the improvement with the consent of the
owner thereof without compliance with other sections if it does not increase
the cost apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made
without such compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
PROCUREMENT OR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT FUNDS
§ 33.30 PROCUREMENT STANDARDS.
   All procurements by the city involving the expenditure of Kentucky Community
Development Block Grant Funds as well as all other expenditures will be made in
accordance with the procurement standards that follow in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90; Am. Ord. 2019-12, passed 8-5-19)
§ 33.31 PROCUREMENT TRANSACTIONS CONSIDERED RESTRICTIVE IN TRADE PROHIBITED.
   Procurement transactions, regardless of method or dollar value, will
maximize open and free competition. The city shall not engage in procurement
practices which may be considered restrictive in trade.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90; Am. Ord. 2019-12, passed 8-5-19)
§ 33.32 DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT TO REVIEW PURCHASES.
   Purchases will be reviewed by the Director of Community Development (if
applicable) to prevent duplication and to insure that costs are reasonable.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90; Am. Ord. 2019-12, passed 8-5-19)
§ 33.33 METHODS FOR PROCUREMENT.
   Procurements shall be made by one of the following methods:
   (A)   Small purchase procedures;
   (B)   Competitive sealed bids;
   (C)   Competitive negotiation;
   (D)   Non-competitive negotiation.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90; Am. Ord. 2019-12, passed 8-5-19)
§ 33.34 SMALL PURCHASE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Purchases of supplies, equipment, and services which cost less than
thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) will not require legal advertisement.
   (B)    For purchases of less than thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00),
efforts will be made to get the lowest and best price, but written records of
such efforts are not necessary.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90; Am. Ord. 2001-6, passed 5-21-01; Am. Ord. 2019-12, passed
8-5-19)
§ 33.35 COMPETITIVE SEALED BIDS.
   (A)   Bidding will be employed when detailed specifications for the goods or
services to be procured can be prepared and the primary basis for award is
cost. When the cost of a contract, lease or other agreement for materials,
supplies, equipment or contractual services other than those personal or
professional exceeds thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00), an Invitation of
Bids (IFB) notice will generally be prepared. This notice will be published at
least once in at least one official newspaper of general circulation within the
community. This newspaper notice will appear not less than seven (7) days and
not more than twenty-one (21) days before the due date for bid proposals. The
Mayor may also solicit sealed bids from responsible prospective suppliers by
sending them a copy of such notice.
   (B)   The IFB will include a general description of the goods or services to
be procured, the bid deposit and bond performance required (if applicable), the
location where bid forms and specifications may be secured, the time and place
for receipt of bids, the time and place for opening bids, and whether the bid
award will be made on the basis of the lowest prices or the lowest evaluated
price. If the lowest evaluated price is used, the measurable criteria to be
utilized must be stated in the IFB. The newspaper notice must also contain
language which calls to the attention of bidders all applicable requirements
which must be complied with such as Section 3 of the 1968 Housing Act, Section
109 of the 1974 Housing and Community Development Act, the Civil Rights Act of
1964, Executive Order 11246 and the Davis Bacon Act.
   (C)   Sealed bids will be opened in public at the time and place stated in
the IFBs. The bids will be tabulated by the City Clerk/Treasurer at the time of
bid opening. The results of the tabulation and the bid documents will be
examined for accuracy and completeness by the review committee (if applicable)
which will make recommendations to the City Council. In addition, the committee
(if applicable) determines that all firms are responsive and responsible. The
City Council will make the decisions to whom the contract shall be awarded.
After the bid award is made by the City Council, a contract will be prepared
for execution by the successful bidder. After the contract is signed, all bid
deposits will be returned to all unsuccessful bidders.
   (D)   The city may cancel an invitation for bid or reject all bids if it is
determined in writing that such is in the best interests of the city. The city
may allow a vendor to withdraw a bid if requested at any time prior to the bid
opening. Bids received after the time set for bid opening shall be returned to
the vendor unopened.
(Am. Ord. 2001-6, passed 5-21-01; Am. Ord. 2019-12, passed 8-5-19)
§ 33.36 COMPETITIVE NEGOTIATION.
   (A)   The city will utilize competitive negotiations, regardless of contract
amount, upon a written determination that:
      (1)   Specifications cannot be made specific enough to permit the award
of a bid on the basis of either the lowest bid price or the lowest evaluated
bid price (in other words, bidding is not feasible).
      (2)   The services to be procured are professional or personal in nature.
   (B)   With the exception of procurement of certain professional services
(principally engineering services), competitive negotiations will proceed as
follows:
      (1)   Proposals will be solicited through newspaper advertisement;
additionally, a Request For Proposal (RFP) may be prepared and mailed to
qualified vendors. The newspaper advertisement must be published at least seven
(7) days and not more than twenty-one (21) days before the date for receipt of
the proposals. The RFP will describe services needed and identify the factors
to be considered in the evaluation of proposals and the relative weights
assigned to each selection factor. The RFP will also state where further
details regarding the RFP may be obtained. The RFP will call attention to the
same regulations discussed in the bidding process. Requests For Proposals will
always include cost as a selection factor.
      (2)   Award must be made to the offerer whose proposal is determined in
writing by a review committee (if applicable) to be the most advantageous to
the city. Evaluation must be based on the factors set forth in the Request for
Proposal and a written evaluation of each response prepared. The review
committee (if applicable) may contact the firms regarding their proposals for
the purpose of clarification and record in writing the nature of the
clarification. If it is determined that no acceptable proposal has been
submitted, all proposals may be rejected. New proposals may be solicited on the
same or revised terms or the procurement may be abandoned.
   (C)   For the procurement of certain professional services, an alternative
to RFPs may be used. The city may publish a Request For Qualifications. RFQs
are handled in a similar method to RFPs with the exception that cost is not a
factor in the initial evaluation. A review committee (if applicable) will
evaluate the responses and rank them by comparative qualifications. The highest
scoring person or firm will be contacted and the selection committee (if
applicable) will negotiate cost. If the committee (if applicable) is unable to
negotiate a satisfactory cost arrangement, the second highest scoring person or
firm will be invited to negotiate. The committee will maintain a written record
of all such negotiations.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90; Am. Ord. 2019-12, passed 8-5-19)
§ 33.37 NON-COMPETITIVE NEGOTIATIONS.
   (A)   Non-competitive negotiations may be used for procurements in excess of
thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) when bidding or competitive negotiations
are not feasible. The city may purchase goods and services through non-
competitive negotiations when it is determined in writing by the Mayor that
competitive negotiation or bidding is not feasible and that:
      (1)   An emergency certified by the Mayor (a copy of the certification
must be filed with the Chief Financial Officer of the city) exists which will
cause public harm as a result of the delay caused by following competitive
purchasing procedures;
      (2)   The contract is for the purchase of perishable items such as meat,
fish, and vegetables, purchased on a weekly or more frequent basis;
      (3)   Only one satisfactory proposal is received through RFP or RFQ;
      (4)   The state has authorized the particular type of non-competitive
negotiation (for example, the procurement of services by an Area Development
District). Also, materials and supplies purchased in accordance with a contract
entered into by the Kentucky Finance and Administration Cabinet pursuant to KRS
45A.050;
      (5)   The transfer of property between government agencies as authorized
by KRS 82.083(4)(a) and/or KRS 424.260.
   (B)   Procurement by non-competitive negotiation requires the strictest
attention to the observation of impartiality toward all suppliers. The Office
of Community Development must approve all procurements by non-competitive
negotiation when only one supplier is involved or only one bid or response to
an RFP/RFQ is received.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90; Am. Ord. 2001-6, passed 5-21-01; Am. Ord. 2019-12, passed
8-5-19)
§ 33.38 [RESERVED].
§ 33.39 DOCUMENTATION.
   All source documents supporting any given transaction (receipts, purchase
orders, invoices, RFP/RFQ data, and bid materials) will be retained and filed
in an appropriate manner. Where feasible, source documents pertinent to each
individual procurement shall be separately filed and maintained. Where it is
infeasible to maintain individual procurement files, source documents will be
filed and maintained in a reasonable manner (examples including
chronologically, by vendor, by type of procurement, and the like). Whatever
form of documentation and filing is employed, the purpose of this section is to
insure that a clear and consistent audit trail is established. At a minimum,
source document data must be sufficient to establish the basis for selection,
basis for cost (including the issue of reasonableness of cost) and basis for
payment.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90; Am. Ord. 2019-12, passed 8-5-19)
§ 33.40 EFFORTS TO SOLICIT PARTICIPATION OF CERTAIN BUSINESSES.
   Efforts will be made and documented to solicit participation of locally-
owned, minority-owned, female-owned and small businesses. Where feasible,
evaluation criteria will include a factor with an appropriate weight for these
firms. A list of locally-owned, minority-owned, female-owned and small
businesses and also minority businesses located within the trade region shall
be maintained and utilized when issuing IFBs, RFPs, and RFQs. This list shall
also be consulted when making small purchases.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90; Am. Ord. 2019-12, passed 8-5-19)
§ 33.41 CODE OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   Conflict of interest.
      (1)   No elected official, employee or designated agent of the city will
take part or have an interest in the award of any procurement transaction if a
conflict of interest, real or apparent, exists.
      (2)   A conflict of interest occurs when the official, employee or
designated agent of the city, partners of such individuals, immediate family
member, or an organization which employs or intends to employ any of the above
has a financial or other interest in any of the competing firms.
   (B)   Acceptance of gratuities. No elected official, employee or designated
agent of the city shall solicit or accept gratuities, favors or anything of
monetary value from contractors, potential contractors, subcontractors or
potential subcontractors.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90; Am. Ord. 2019-12, passed 8-5-19)
Cross-reference:
   See Ethics Code,
Ch. 38A
§ 33.42 CONTRACTORS IN VIOLATION TO BE BARRED FROM FUTURE TRANSACTIONS.
   Any contractor or potential contractor who knowingly and deliberately
violates the provisions of these procurement standards will be barred from
future transactions with the city.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90; Am. Ord. 2019-12, passed 8-5-19)
Cross-reference:
   See Ethics Code,
Ch. 38A
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Public records protected from disclosure
GENERAL
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH AND PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE. A photograph or image
of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes when
the individual is booked into a detention facility as defined in KRS 520.010 or
photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any public record or
records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease of a
service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include publication or
related use of a public record by a newspaper or periodical; use of a public
record by a radio or television station in its news or other informational
programs; or use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether the records are in his actual
personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the
Mayor.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Every city government board, commission, and authority; every
city council and council board, commission and committee; every school district
board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city government
agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of education
created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance,
resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or pursuant to state
or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative
act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any entity when the
majority of its governing body is appointed by a "public agency", as defined by
this section; a member or employee of a "public agency", a state or local
officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission, committee,
subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or agency, except
for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee formed for the
purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency employees,
established, created, or controlled by a "public agency" as defined in this
section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies where each
"public agency" is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.870)
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of,
or retained by a public agency. "PUBLIC RECORDS" shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body referred to in subsection (1) (h) of KRS
61.870 that are not related to functions, activities, programs, or operations
funded by state or local authority nor any records that may be excluded by §
34.12.
   REASONABLE FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by a public agency for
making copies of non exempt public records requested for noncommercial purposes
which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of
the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but
not including the cost of staff. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the city.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency's computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Any resident of the Commonwealth shall have the right to inspect
public records. The official custodian may require a written application,
signed by the applicant and with his or her name printed legibly on the
application, describing the records to be inspected. The official custodian may
require the applicant to provide a statement in the written application of the
manner in which the applicant is a resident of the Commonwealth under KRS
61.870(10)(a) to (f).
      (2)   The written application shall be:
         (a)   Hand delivered;
         (b)   Mailed;
         (c)   Sent via facsimile; or
         (d)   Sent via e-mail to the public agency's official custodian of
public records or his or her designee at the e-mail address designated in the
public agency's rules and regulations adopted pursuant to KRS 61.876.
      (3)   A public agency shall not require the use of any particular form
for the submission of an open records request, but shall accept for any request
the standardized form developed under KRS 61.876(4).
(KRS 61.872 (2))
   (B)   All public records shall be open for inspection by any resident of the
Commonwealth, except as otherwise provided by KRS 61.870 to 61.884, and
suitable facilities shall be made available by each public agency for the
exercise of this right. No resident of the Commonwealth shall remove original
copies of public records from the offices of any public agency without the
written permission of the official custodian of the record.
(KRS 61.872(1).
   (C)   A resident of the Commonwealth may inspect public records during the
regular business hours of the city, or by receiving copies of the public
records from the city through the mail if the applicant’s residence or
principal place of business is outside of the county in which the city is
located and he has precisely described public records which are available
within the city. If the resident of the Commonwealth requesting the public
records requests that the records be mailed, the official custodian shall mail
the copies upon receipt of all fees and the cost of mailing.
   (D)   The applicant shall have the right to make abstracts of the public
records and to obtain copies of all public records not exempted by this
chapter. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee as defined in §
34.01.
   (E)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall be
available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
   (F)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not less
than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one (1) color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor's requirements, the public records may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (G)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the disclosure
of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial purposes, if
copies of nonexempt public records require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be requested for
commercial purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee. The
public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are requested for a
commercial purpose may used, and may require the requestor to enter into a
contract with the agency. The contract shall permit use of the public records
for the stated commercial purpose for a specified fee. The fee may be based on
the cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and staff
required to produce a copy of the public record or records or the cost to the
public agency of the creation purchase, or the acquisition of the public
records.
(KRS 61.874 (4))
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a
public record for a:
      (1)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to subsection (G) of this section: or
      (2)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
      (3)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical,
radio or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed
the use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874 (5))
   (I)   Online access to public records in electronic form, as provided under
this section, may be provided and made available at the discretion of the
public agency. If a party wishes to access public records by electronic means
and the public agency agrees to provide online access, a public agency may
require that the party enter into a contract, license, or other agreement with
the agency, and may charge fees for these agreements. Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges;
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in subsection (G).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk/Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall so notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the custodian of the
public record.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately so notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection of the public records,
not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) from
receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the cause is given
for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on which the public
record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies of public records. However, refusal under this section must be
sustained by clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days, excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays, after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under the official custodian’s authority and shall
constitute final agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
   (B)   If the requesting party wants the Attorney General to review the
denial of a request for inspection of a public record, he shall proceed under
the provisions of KRS 61.880 and 61.882. Upon the Attorney General's request,
the agency will provide additional documentation.
   (C)   If upon request by the person seeking inspection, the Attorney General
reviews the denial and issues a written opinion upholding, in whole or in part,
the request for inspection, the requesting party may institute appeal
proceedings within thirty (30) days for injunctive or declaratory relief in the
circuit court. In addition, if the Attorney General disallows the request, or
if the city continues to withhold the record notwithstanding the Attorney
General's opinion, and the person seeking disclosure institutes proceedings in
circuit court, the city shall notify the Attorney General of such action.
(KRS 61.880, 61.882)
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official or employee of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any
record with the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules
and regulations.
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations, and shall be subject to inspection
only upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court
shall authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to
civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if opened would permit an unfair commercial advantage to
competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained (i) in conjunction with an
application or the administration of a loan or grant; (ii) in conjunction with
an application for or the administration of assessments, incentives,
inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS Chapter 154; (iii) in
conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise, including mineral
exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable plans,
appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making, preparing,
compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which are trade
commodities obtained from a person; or (iv) for the grant or review of a
license to do business. These exemptions shall not, however, apply to records
the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statutes.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law.
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under this section.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by Federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited; and
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31;
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos; and
      (18)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409; and
      (19)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function; and
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
   (C)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible person on an employment register to inspect and copy any record,
including preliminary and other supporting documentation, that relates to that
person. Such records shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job
performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification,
reallocation, transfers, layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and
preliminary and other supporting documentation. A municipal employee,
applicant, or eligible person on an employment register shall not have the
right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to ongoing
criminal or administrative investigations by an agency.
   (D)   If any public record contains material which is not excepted under
this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and make the
nonexcepted material available for examination.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (F)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(17) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878)
CHAPTER 34A: PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
General
   
34A.01   Definitions
Public Meeting Requirements
   
34A.04   Meetings open to the public
   
34A.05   Requirements for closed sessions
   
34A.06   Public meeting schedules
   
34A.07   Special meetings
   
34A.08   Video teleconferences
   
34A.09   Enforcement
GENERAL
§ 34A.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ACTION TAKEN.  A collective decision, a commitment or promise to make a
positive or negative decision, or an actual vote by a majority of the members
of the governmental body.
(KRS 61.805(3))
   MEETING. All gatherings of every kind, including video teleconferences,
regardless of where the meeting is held, and whether regular or special and
informational or casual gatherings held in anticipation of or in conjunction
with a regular or special meeting.
(KRS 61.805(1))
   MEMBER. A member of the governing body of a public agency. Member does not
include employees or licensees of the agency.
(KRS 61.805(4))
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Every city government board, commission, and authority; every
city council and council board, commission and committee; every school district
board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city government
agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of education
created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance,
resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or pursuant to state
or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative
act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any entity when the
majority of its governing body is appointed by a "public agency", as defined by
this  section; a member or employee of a "public agency", a state or local
officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission, committee,
subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or agency, except
for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee formed for the
purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency employees,
established, created, or controlled by a "public agency" as defined in this
section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies where each
"public agency" is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.805(2))
   VIDEO TELECONFERENCE.  One (1) meeting, occurring in two (2) or more
locations, where individuals can see and hear each other by means of video and
audio equipment.
(KRS 61.805(5))
PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
§ 34A.04 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   All meetings of a quorum of the members of any public agency at which
any public business is discussed or at which any action is taken by the agency,
shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times, except for the
following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property by
a public agency, but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of
a specific piece of property to be acquired for public use or sold by a public
agency;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the public agency;
      (3)   Collective bargaining negotiations between public employers and
their employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline, or dismissal of an individual employee, member, or student without
restricting that employee's, member's or student's right to a public hearing if
requested. This exception shall not be interpreted to permit discussion of
general personnel matters in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion, or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
      (7)   Deliberations of quasi-judicial bodies regarding individual
adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved, his
representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the agency's
governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of planning
commissions, zoning commissions, or boards of adjustment;
      (8)   That portion of a meeting devoted to a discussion of a specific
public record exempted from disclosure under KRS 61.878(1)(i). However, that
portion of any public agency meeting shall not be closed to a member of the
Kentucky General Assembly;
      (9)   Meetings which federal or state law specifically require to be
conducted in privacy; and
      (10)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret.
      (11)   Meetings of any selection committee, evaluation committee, or
other similar group established under KRS Chapter 45A or 56 or other state or
local law, to select a successful bidder for award of a state or local
contract.
   (B)   Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending
one or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of the
members of the public agency and where the meetings are held for the purpose of
avoiding the requirements of subsection (A) of this section, shall be subject
to the requirements of subsection (A) of this section. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed to prohibit discussion between individual members
where the purpose of the discussions is to educate the members on specific
issues.
(KRS 61.810)
§ 34A.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting
closed sessions by those public agencies authorized by §
34A.05(A) (1) and (4) except as (4) relates to students:
      (1)   Notice shall be given in regular open meetings of the general
nature of the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for the
closed session, and the specific provision of §
34A.05 authorizing the closed session;
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and carried
by a majority vote in open, public session;
      (3)   No final action may be taken in closed session; and
      (4)   No matters may be discussed at a closed session other than those
publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
   (B)   Public agencies and activities identified in §
34A.04(A) paragraphs (2), (3), (4), but only so far as (4) relates to students,
(5), (6), (7), (8), (9) and (10) are excluded from the requirements of
subsection (A) of this section.
(KRS 61.815)
§ 34A.06 PUBLIC MEETING SCHEDULES.
   (A)   All meetings of a public agency shall be held at specified times and
places which are convenient to the public. In considering locations for public
meetings, the agency shall evaluate space requirements, seating capacity, and
acoustics.
   (B)   All public agencies shall provide for a schedule of regular meetings
by ordinance, order, resolution, by laws or by whatever other means may be
required for the conduct of business of the public agency. The schedule of
regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
(KRS 61.820)
§ 34A.07 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided by subsection (F) of this section special meetings
shall be held in accordance with the provisions of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
of this section.
   (B)   The presiding officer or a majority of the members of the public
agency may call a special meeting;
   (C)   The public agency shall provide written notice of the special meeting
containing the date, time, place of the special meeting and the agenda.
Discussions and action at the meeting shall be limited to items listed on the
agenda in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered
personally, transmitted by facsimile, or mailed to every member of the public
agency as well as each media organization which has filed a written request,
including a mailing address, to receive notice of special meetings. The notice
shall be received at least twenty-four (24) hours before the special meeting.
The public agency may periodically, but no more often than once in a calendar
year, inform media organizations that they will have to submit a new written
request or no longer receive written notice of special meetings until a new
written request is filed.
      (2)   A public agency may satisfy the requirements of division (1) of
this section by transmitting the written notice by electronic mail to public
agency members and media organizations that have filed a written request with
the public agency indicating their preference to receive electronic mail
notification in lieu of notice by personal delivery, facsimile machine, or
mail. The written request shall include the electronic mail address or
addresses of the agency member or media organization.
   (E)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
agency. The notice shall be posted at least twenty-four (24) hours before the
special meeting.
   (F)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with the notice
requirements in this section, this subsection shall govern a public agency's
conduct of a special meeting. The special meeting shall be called pursuant to
subsection (A) (1) of this section. The public agency shall make a reasonable
effort, under emergency circumstances, to notify the members of the agency,
media organizations which have filed a written request pursuant to this
section, and the public of the emergency meeting. At the beginning of the
emergency meeting, the person chairing the meeting shall briefly describe for
the record the emergency circumstances preventing compliance with the notice
requirements of this section. These comments shall appear in the minutes.
Discussion and action at the emergency meeting shall be limited to the
emergency for which the meeting is called.
(KRS 61.823)
§ 34A.08 VIDEO TELECONFERENCES.
   (A)   A public agency may conduct any meeting through video teleconference.
   (B)   Notice of a video teleconference meeting shall:
      (1)   Comply with the requirements of KRS 61.820 or 61.823 as
appropriate;
      (2)   Clearly state that the meeting will be a video teleconference;
      (3)   Provide specific information on how any member of the public or
media organization may view the meeting electronically; and
      (4)   In any case where the public agency has elected to provide a
physical location, or in any circumstance where two (2) or more members of the
public agency are attending a video teleconference meeting from the same
physical location, precisely identify a primary physical location of the video
teleconference where all members can be seen and heard and the public may
attend in accordance with KRS 61.840.
   (C)   The same procedures with regard to participation, distribution of
materials, and other matters shall apply in all video teleconference locations.
Members of the public agency who participate in a video teleconference shall
remain visible on camera at all times that business is being discussed.
   (D)    Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast of a video
teleconference at any location shall result in the suspension of the video
teleconference until the broadcast is restored.
   (E)   If a regular meeting is changed to a video conference, the meeting
shall remain a regular meeting if the meeting occurs on the same date and time
as originally scheduled and the public agency follows the provisions of KRS
61.823(4) to provide a notice that meets the requirements of subsection (B)(2)
to (4) of this section.
(KRS 61.826)
§ 34A.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this Chapter shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 61.846 and
61.848 for enforcing KRS 61.805 to 61.850.
Cross-reference:
   Rules of Procedure, see § §
32.20 -
32.23
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   County assessment adopted
   
35.02   Imposition of tax on lands, improvements and personal property
   
35.03   Imposition of tax on cash value of shares of stock
   
35.04   Due date; payment
   
35.05   Delinquency
   
35.06   Collection of taxes
   
35.07   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
35.08   Disposition of funds
   
35.09   Lien for taxes upon any and all property subject to tax
   35.10    Property assessment and reassessment moratorium program
Cross reference:
   Bank franchise and local deposit tax, see
Ch. 117
   Restaurant tax, see §
40.09 and
40.99
§ 35.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   For each calendar year, the assessment date for all property located within
the corporate limits of the city shall be January 1, and the valuation of
property subject to taxation shall be insofar as is applicable the same
assessed value as assessed by the Grayson County Property Valuation
Administrator, who shall receive the fees provided by law for furnishing such
assessments to the city. To the extent applicable, the assessments provided by
the State Department of Revenue, the State Board of Valuation and Assessment
and Railroad Commission shall be adopted by this city.
(Ord. passed 8-5-85; Am. Ord. passed 10-23-92; Am. Ord. 93-10, passed 10-18-93;
Am. Ord. 94-13, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 95-1, passed 1-16-95; Am Ord. 95-11,
passed 9-18-95; Am. Ord. 96-10, passed 8-19-96; Am. Ord. 97-13, passed 10-6-97;
Am. Ord. 2014-08, passed 9-29-14; Am. Ord. 2015-08, passed 9-25-15; Am. Ord.
2016-13, passed 9-29-16; Am. Ord. 2017-13, passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 2018-18,
passed 9-21-18; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 9-26-19; Am. Ord. 2020-16, passed 9-
21-20; Am. Ord. 2021-09, passed 9-20-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 9-22-22; Am.
Ord. 2023-21, passed 9-5-23)
Statutory reference:
   Use of county assessment by city, see KRS 132.285
§ 35.02 IMPOSITION OF TAX ON LANDS, IMPROVEMENTS AND PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   An ad valorem tax in an amount established by City Council by ordinance is
hereby levied on all lands, improvements and personal property, held or owned
by any person, firm, company, corporation, or association in his, hers, their,
or its name, or a fiduciary or agent and subject to taxation under the laws of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky located in the city, including all property and
franchises heretofore and hereafter assessed by the Department of Revenue, the
State Board of Valuation and Assessment and Railroad Commission, which
assessments to the extent applicable shall be adopted by the city.
(Ord. passed 8-5-85; Am. Ord. passed 10-23-92; Am. Ord. 93-10, passed 10-18-93;
Am. Ord. 94-13, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 95-1, passed 1-16-95; Am. Ord. 95-11,
passed 9-18-95; Am. Ord. 96-10, passed 8-19-96; Am. Ord. 97-13, passed 10-6-97;
Am. Ord. 98-8, passed 9-21-98; Am. Ord. 99-11, passed 10-4-99; Am. Ord. 2000-
10, passed 10-2-00; Am. Ord. 2001-9, passed 9-17-01; Am. Ord. 2002-14, passed
10-7-02; Am. Ord. 2003-09, passed 9-2-03; Am. Ord. 2004-10, passed 9-20-04; Am.
Ord. 2005-7, passed 9-19-05; Am. Ord. 2006-13, passed 9-18-06; Am. Ord. 2007-7,
passed 9-4-07; Am. Ord. 2009-08, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 2010-12, passed 10-4-
10; Am. Ord, 2011-11, passed 10-3-11; Am. Ord. 2012-07, passed 8-20-12; Am.
Ord. 2014-08, passed 9-29-14; Am. Ord. 2015-08, passed 9-25-15; Am. Ord. 2016-
13, passed 9-29-16; Am. Ord. 2017-13, passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 2018-18, passed
9-21-18; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 9-26-19; Am. Ord. 2020-16, passed 9-21-20;
Am. Ord. 2021-09, passed 9-20-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 9-22-22; Am. Ord.
2023-21, passed 9-5-23; Am. Ord. 2024-29, passed 9-16-24)
§ 35.03 IMPOSITION OF TAX ON CASH VALUE OF SHARES OF STOCK.
   An ad valorem tax in an amount established by City Council by ordinance is
hereby levied on each one hundred dollars ($100) of the fair cash value of all
such shares of stock in all state and national banks located in the city.
(Ord. passed 8-5-85; Am. Ord. passed 10-23-92; Am. Ord. 93-10, passed 10-18-93;
Am. Ord. 94-13, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 95-1, passed 1-16-95; Am. Ord. 95-11,
passed 9-18-95; Am. Ord. 96-10, passed 8-19-96)
§ 35.04 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   All taxes shall become due and payable thirty (30) days after the tax
bill has been mailed.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who pays his city taxes prior to thirty (30) days from
the date tax bills are mailed shall be entitled to a two percent (2%) discount
thereon, and the City Clerk/Treasurer shall allow the discount and give a
receipt in full to the taxpayer.
   (C)   The taxes herein imposed shall be payable at City Hall, 515 South Main
Street, Leitchfield, Kentucky, during regular business hours.
(Ord. passed 8-5-85; Am. Ord. passed 10-23-92; Am. Ord. 93-10, passed 10-18-93;
Am. Ord. 94-13, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 95-1, passed 1-16-95; Am. Ord. 95-11,
passed 9-18-95; Am. Ord. 96-10, passed 8-19-96; Am. Ord. 97-13, passed 10-6-97;
Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 9-29-08; Am. Ord. 2009-08, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord.
2010-12, passed 10-4-10; Am. Ord, 2011-11, passed 10-3-11; Am. Ord. 2012-07,
passed 8-20-12; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 9-16-13; Am. Ord. 2014-08, passed 9-
29-14; Am. Ord. 2015-08, passed 9-25-15; Am. Ord. 2016-13, passed 9-29-16; Am.
Ord. 2017-13, passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 2018-18, passed 9-21-18; Am. Ord. 2019-
13, passed 9-26-19; Am. Ord. 2020-16, passed 9-21-20; Am. Ord. 2021-09, passed
9-20-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 9-22-22; Am. Ord. 2023-21, passed 9-5-23)
§ 35.05 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes shall become delinquent if not paid within thirty (30)
days from the date of mailing.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall be
subject to a penalty of six percent (6%) and shall bear interest at the rate of
six percent (6%) per annum until paid.
(Ord. passed 8-5-85; Am. Ord. passed 10-23-92; Am. Ord. 93-10, passed 10-18-93;
Am. Ord. 94-13, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 95-1, passed 1-16-95; Am. Ord. 95-11,
passed 9-18-95; Am. Ord. 96-10, passed 8-19-96; Am. Ord. 97-13, passed 10-6-97;
Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 9-29-08; Am. Ord. 2009-08, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord.
2010-12, passed 10-4-10; Am. Ord, 2011-11, passed 10-3-11; Am. Ord. 2012-07,
passed 8-20-12; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 9-16-13; Am. Ord. 2014-08, passed 9-
29-14; Am. Ord. 2015-08, passed 9-25-15; Am. Ord. 2016-13, passed 9-29-16; Am.
Ord. 2017-13, passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 2018-18, passed 9-21-18; Am. Ord. 2019-
13, passed 9-26-19; Am. Ord. 2020-16, passed 9-21-20; Am. Ord. 2021-09, passed
9-20-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 9-22-22; Am. Ord. 2023-21, passed 9-5-23)
§ 35.06 COLLECTION OF TAXES.
   The collection of taxes, interest and penalty shall be the duty of the City
Tax Collector, who shall bill the taxes by mailing a statement to taxpayers.
The City Clerk/Treasurer is so designated as the City Tax Collector.
(Ord. passed 8-5-85; Am. Ord. passed 10-23-92; Am. Ord. 93-10, passed 10-18-93;
Am. Ord. 94-13, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 95-1, passed 1-16-95; Am. Ord. 95-11,
passed 9-18-95; Am. Ord. 96-10, passed 8-19-96; Am. Ord. 97-13, passed 10-6-97;
Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 9-29-08; Am. Ord. 2009-08, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord.
2010-12, passed 10-4-10; Am. Ord, 2011-11, passed 10-3-11; Am. Ord. 2012-07,
passed 8-20-12; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 9-16-13; Am. Ord. 2014-08, passed 9-
29-14; Am. Ord. 2015-08, passed 9-25-15; Am. Ord. 2016-13, passed 9-29-16; Am.
Ord. 2017-13, passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 2018-18, passed 9-21-18; Am. Ord. 2019-
13, passed 9-26-19; Am. Ord. 2020-16, passed 9-21-20; Am. Ord. 2021-09, passed
9-20-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 9-22-22; Am. Ord. 2023-21, passed 9-5-23)
Cross-reference:
   City Treasurer, see §
31.36
§ 35.07 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the City
Clerk/Treasurer as the designated City Tax Collector.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and payable thirty
(30) days after the tax bill has been mailed.
   (C)   Any taxpayer who pays his ad valorem tax on motor vehicles prior to
thirty (30) days from the date tax bills are mailed shall be entitled to a two
percent (2%) discount thereon, and the City Clerk/Treasurer shall allow the
discount and give a receipt in full to the taxpayer.
   (D)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become delinquent if not
paid within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing. Any taxes not paid by
the date when they become delinquent shall be subject to a penalty of six
percent (6%) and shall bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum
until paid.
(Am. Ord. 2009-08, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 2010-12, passed 10-4-10; Am. Ord,
2011-11, passed 10-3-11; Am. Ord. 2012-07, passed 8-20-12; Am. Ord. 2013-10,
passed 9-16-13; Am. Ord. 2014-08, passed 9-29-14; Am. Ord. 2015-08, passed 9-
25-15; Am. Ord. 2016-13, passed 9-29-16; Am. Ord. 2017-13, passed 9-18-17; Am.
Ord. 2018-18, passed 9-21-18; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 9-26-19; Am. Ord. 2020-
16, passed 9-21-20; Am. Ord. 2021-09, passed 9-20-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed
9-22-22; Am. Ord. 2023-21, passed 9-5-23)
§ 35.08 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All moneys collected pursuant to this chapter shall be paid into the General
Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
(Ord. passed 8-5-85; Am. Ord. passed 10-23-92; Am. Ord. 93-10, passed 10-18-93;
Am. Ord. 94-13, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 95-1, passed 1-16-95; Am. Ord. 95-11,
passed 9-18-95; Am. Ord. 96-10, passed 8-19-96; Am. Ord. 97-13, passed 10-6-97;
Am. Ord. 2009-08, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 2010- 12, passed 10-4-10; Am. Ord,
2011-11, passed 10-3-11; Am. Ord. 2012-07, passed 8-20-12; Am. Ord. 2013-10,
passed 9-16-13; Am. Ord. 2014-08, passed 9-29-14; Am. Ord. 2015-08, passed 9-
25-15; Am. Ord. 2016-13, passed 9-29-16; Am. Ord. 2017-13, passed 9-18-17; Am.
Ord. 2018-18, passed 9-21-18; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 9-26-19; Am. Ord. 2020-
16, passed 9-21-20; Am. Ord. 2021-09, passed 9-20-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed
9-22-22; Am. Ord. 2023-21, passed 9-5-23)
§ 35.09 LIEN FOR TAXES UPON ANY AND ALL PROPERTY SUBJECT TO TAX.
   (A)   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject
to the tax imposed by this chapter, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
   (B)   On or about April 1 of each year, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall
prepare a list of all outstanding unpaid tax bills within the city, and shall
promptly cause such list, showing the name of each delinquent taxpayer, the
number of the tax bill, and the amount due to be published in the newspaper
having the largest circulation in the county. Said publication shall indicate
that a fee in the sum of five dollars ($5.00) for each time the delinquent list
is published shall be added to the amount owed on each delinquent tax bill.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 9-26-19; Am. Ord. 2020-16, passed 9-21-20; Am. Ord. 2021-
09, passed 9-20-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 9-22-22; Am. Ord. 2023-21, passed
9-5-23)
§ 35.10 PROPERTY ASSESSMENT AND REASSESSMENT MORATORIUM PROGRAM.
   (A)   Program established. The city hereby establishes a property assessment
and reassessment moratorium program for qualifying properties pursuant to KRS
99.595 through 99.605 and KRS 132.452.
   (B)   Qualifying conditions of structures. All owners of existing
residential or commercial structures at least twenty-five (25) years old may
qualify for a reassessment moratorium if the costs of the improvements made to
the structure to repair, rehabilitate, restore or stabilize are equal to at
least twenty-five (25%) of the value of the improvements on the property based
on the latest assessment made by the Grayson County Property Valuation
Administrator.
   (C)   Administering agencies. The administering agencies for the moratorium
program in the city shall be the City Code Enforcement Department. Applications
shall be received and reviewed by the City Code Enforcement Department and
forwarded to the Grayson County Property Valuation Administrator to complete
the inspection phase of the assessment process.
   (D)   Application for moratorium certificate; fee omitted. The applications
for moratorium certificates shall be made to the City Code Enforcement
Department at least thirty (30) days prior to any construction work on the
property is begun. Each application for a moratorium certificate will include
or be accompanied by:
      (1)   A general description of the property;
      (2)   Proof the property is at least twenty-five (25) years old;
      (3)   A general description of the proposed use of the property;
      (4)   The nature and extent of the restoration, repair, rehabilitation or
stabilization and cost estimates based on bids submitted to the owner;
      (5)   A time schedule for undertaking and completing the project; and
      (6)   If the property is commercial, a descriptive list of the fixed
building equipment, which will be part of the facility and a statement of the
economic advantage. Expected construction employment shall be part of the
application.
   (E)   Assessment of property value. The City Code Enforcement Department and
the Grayson County Property Value Administrator shall maintain a record of all
applications for a property assessment or reassessment moratorium. The Property
Value Administrator shall assess or reassess the property within thirty (30)
days of receipt of the application.
   (F)   Completion of improvements.
      (1)   The applicant shall have two (2) years, as approved by the City
Code Enforcement Department in which to complete the improvements unless
granted an extension by the City Code Enforcement Department. In no case shall
the application be extended beyond two additional years.
      (2)   Upon notice by the applicant to the City Code Enforcement
Department that the work has been completed on the property, a City Code
Enforcement Officer shall conduct an on-site inspection of the property to
certify that the improvements described in the application have been completed.
The City Code Enforcement Department shall then certify to the Property
Valuation Administrator that the improvements have been completed and the
moratorium certificate shall be issued; however, no moratorium certificate will
be issued on property in which there are delinquent city bills.
      (3)   Any application for an assessment or reassessment moratorium not
acted upon by the applicant shall become void two (2) years from the date of
application.
   (G)   Duration of certificate. The moratorium shall become effective on the
assessment date next following the issuance of the moratorium certificate and
shall remain in effect for five (5) years.
   (H)   Transfer or assignment of certificate. An assessment or reassessment
moratorium certificate may be transferred or assigned by the holder of the
certificate to a new owner or lessee of the property.
   (I)   Subsequent moratorium certificate. Any property granted an assessment
or reassessment moratorium may be eligible for a subsequent moratorium
certificate provided that reapplication is be made prior to the expiration of
three (3) years following the expiration of the original moratorium.
   (J)   Assessment of property following moratorium. On the assessment date
next following the expiration, cancellation or revocation of an assessment or
reassessment moratorium, the property shall be assessed on the basis of its
full fair value. Value shall be based on the guidelines administered by the
property valuation administrator.
(Ord. 2024-26, passed 7-15-24)
CHAPTER 36: DISCRIMINATION BASED ON DISABILITY STATUS
Section
   
36.01   Adoption of procedures
   
36.02   Administration
   
36.03   Amendment procedures
   
36.04   Grievance procedures for discrimination based on disability status
§ 36.01 ADOPTION OF PROCEDURES.
   The following procedures shall be the "grievance procedures" for anyone who
believes he or she has been discriminated against by the city, based on
disability status with respect to federally funded programs.
(Ord. passed 10-1-84)
§ 36.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of these procedures and related federal and state
regulations shall be the responsibility of the Mayor.
(Ord. passed 10-1-84)
§ 36.03 AMENDMENT PROCEDURES.
   These procedures may be amended by ordinance to comply with court directives
or federal and state regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-1-84)
§ 36.04 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES FOR DISCRIMINATION BASED ON DISABILITY STATUS.
   (A)   Any person (employee or citizen) who believes that he has been
subjected to discrimination as prohibited by Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
Act of 1973 or the Americans with Disabilities Act, may personally or by a
representative, file a complaint with the Office of the Mayor. A person who has
not personally been subjected to discrimination may also file a complaint.
   (B)   Any person (citizen, applicant, or employee) who believes he has been
adversely affected by an act or decision by the city, and that such act or
decision was based on disability status, shall have the right to process a
complaint or grievance in accordance with the following procedure:
      (1)   Step one. An aggrieved person must submit a written statement to
the Mayor setting forth the nature of the discrimination alleged and facts upon
which the allegation is based.
      (2)   Step two.
         (a)   The Mayor shall contact the complainant no later than 15 days
after receiving the written statement to establish an informal meeting with the
objective of resolving the matter informally. However, in no case shall the
informal meeting be conducted sooner than five days, nor more than 45 days
after receiving the written statement.
         (b)   There shall be prepared a written documentary of the discussions
at the informal meeting which shall be preserved in the records of the city.
      (3)   Step three. Within 15 days of the informal meeting, if no decision
has been made by the Mayor or the decision of the Mayor does not satisfy the
complainant, he may request a hearing with the City Council by submitting a
written request to the Mayor.
      (4)   Step four.
         (a)   In thus discussing the grievance, the complainant may designate
any person of his or her choice to appear with him and participate in the
discussion. The City Council shall require the Mayor to participate in the
discussion of the grievance, when it is brought before the City Council. The
City Council shall issue a written decision on the matter within 15 days, and
the decision shall be the final procedure for the complainant at the local
level.
         (b)   There shall be prepared a written documentary of the discussion
at the hearing, which shall be preserved in the records of the city.
(Ord. passed 10-1-84)
CHAPTER 37: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
37.01   Establishment of Department
   
37.02   Composition
   
37.03   Fire Chief
   
37.04   Qualification of members
   
37.05   Number of members
   
37.06   Physical examination; submission of records to City Clerk/Treasurer
   
37.07   Members to notify City Clerk/Treasurer of dependents
   
37.08   Position created by Department members; election of officers
   
37.09   Duties of the department
   
37.10   Operation
   
37.11   Obedience to orders of commanding officers
   
37.12   Spectators to obey firefighters; hindering Department prohibited
   
37.13   Entering firehouse
   
37.14   Officer in command while in attendance at fire
   
37.15   Aid and assistance to sister cities; fire protection districts
   
37.16   Protection of the county
   
37.17   Fees for repetitive services
 
   
37.99   Penalty
§ 37.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT.
   It is hereby confirmed, that there has, heretofore, been established a
Volunteer Fire Department of the City of Leitchfield, to be known and
identified as the Leitchfield Fire Department.
(Ord. passed 10-3-77)
§ 37.02 COMPOSITION.
   The Fire Department of the city shall consist of a Fire Chief, two Assistant
Fire Chiefs, officers, and members of the Department. One Assistant Fire Chief
shall be appointed by the Fire Chief. The other Assistant Fire Chief shall be
elected every three years by majority decision of the membership of the
Leitchfield Fire Department.
(Ord. passed 10-3-77; Am. Ord. 2020-04, passed 2-17-20)
§ 37.03 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the nonelective office of Fire Chief.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall be a resident of Grayson County.
   (C)   In the event of a vacancy, the members of the Fire Department may
present the name of a member of the Department to the Mayor of the city who may
present the name to the City Council as a nominee of the Department as Fire
Chief, in which event, no other name shall be placed in nomination until and
unless such nomination be rejected by the Council.
   (D)   Responsibilities and duties.
      (1)   The Fire Chief shall have supreme command over the Fire Department
while fighting fires and shall call upon all other departments of the city
government for aid and assistance in the preservation of life and property.
      (2)   The Fire Chief shall be responsible for the maintenance and repair
of all Fire Department property and equipment; he shall, by order, provide for
responsibility by the members for maintenance and repair of equipment in their
possession.
      (3)   The Fire Chief, while engaged in the command of his Department
within the corporate limits of the city, when it may be necessary for the
protection of other property and to prevent the spread of a conflagration, may
cause buildings to be removed, torn down or destroyed in the best manner
possible.
      (4)   The Fire Chief, in addition to statutory duties placed upon him,
shall perform such other duties relative to fire prevention and fighting as may
be delegated to him from time to time by the City Council by ordinance.
   (E)   The Fire Chief may resign by notifying the members of the Fire
Department and calling for an election of a nominee, and upon election,
presenting his resignation to the City Council together with the results of the
election.
   (F)   The Fire Chief shall be paid compensation at an amount set by
executive authority and legislative body.
   (G)   The Fire Chief shall not be required to take an oath or execute a
bond.
(Ord. passed 10-3-77; Am. Ord. passed 12-15-80; Am. Ord. 94-8, passed 6-20-94;
Am. Ord. 97-9, passed 6-16-97; Am. Ord. 99-7, passed 8-2-99; Am. Ord. 2001-10,
passed 9-17-01; Am. Ord. 2020- 03, passed 2-17-20)
§ 37.04 QUALIFICATION OF MEMBERS.
   Each member of the Fire Department shall meet the minimum requirements and
qualifications as provided by the statutes of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and
such other qualifications as the Department may establish.
(Ord. passed 10-3-77)
§ 37.05 NUMBER OF MEMBERS.
   The Fire Department shall consist of up to 49 members and such other members
as shall from time to time be authorized by the City Council by ordinance.
(Ord. passed 10-3-77; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 3-3-14)
§ 37.06 PHYSICAL EXAMINATION; SUBMISSION OF RECORDS TO CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   Each nominee for membership in the Fire Department shall submit to a
physical examination, prior to being accepted in to the Department, to be
performed by a medical doctor chosen by the Fire Chief. Each member's name,
address, social security number, age and copy of his application for membership
shall be given to the City Clerk/Treasurer, and such member shall be carried as
an active member until certification is received by the Clerk/Treasurer from
the Department that said member is no longer active; no person shall be
considered a member until such information be received by the Clerk/Treasurer,
provided further that members of the Department as of the effective date of
this chapter are not required to submit applications.
(Ord. passed 10-3-77)
§ 37.07 MEMBERS TO NOTIFY CITY CLERK/TREASURER OF DEPENDENTS.
   Each member of the Fire Department shall immediately provide the City Clerk/
Treasurer with the name and relationship of each spouse, child or parent who is
dependent upon the member for support, and shall immediately notify the Clerk/
Treasurer of any change in such dependency.
(Ord. passed 10-3-77)
§ 37.08 POSITIONS CREATED BY DEPARTMENT MEMBERS; ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   The members shall provide for such other officers as are required by the
Fire Department's need and shall elect or select such members from the ranks of
the Department to fill the positions created by the Department; nothing in this
section shall affect the command of the Fire Chief over the Department in the
exercise of its primary duties.
(Ord. passed 10-3-77)
§ 37.09 DUTIES OF THE DEPARTMENT.
   The Fire Department shall engage in fighting fires within the corporate
limits of the city and such other places as directed by the Fire Chief or as
emergency dictates; the Department shall engage in training under its Chief or
officers to keep it at its present level of effectiveness or for its
improvement; the Department may engage in activities conducive to fire
prevention and detection and such other activities of a civic and characterable
nature.
(Ord. passed 10-3-77)
§ 37.10 OPERATION.
   The Leitchfield Fire Department shall operate under the Leitchfiled Fire
Department Standard Operating Procedures which shall establish the governing
and procedures of the Department, the providing of a Fire Chief, two Assistant
Fire Chiefs, all other officers, qualifications of members, and methods of
electing or selecting officers and members.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-17-20)
§ 37.11 OBEDIENCE TO ORDERS OF COMMANDING OFFICERS.
   No member of the Fire Department or members of the other fire departments
within the corporate limits of the city in attendance at a fire shall neglect
or refuse to obey the orders of the officer in command at such fire or any Fire
Chief of a fire department present and assisting.
(Ord. passed 10-3-77) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.12 SPECTATORS TO OBEY FIREFIGHTERS; HINDERING DEPARTMENT PROHIBITED.
   No spectator shall, if ordered to vacate the area by an officer of the Fire
Department or any peace officer of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, remain within
the area ordered to be vacated; and no spectator shall, unless requested by a
member of the Fire Department, assist or aid in the performance of
firefighting, nor shall such spectator hinder or obstruct the Department in the
effective performance of its duties.
(Ord. passed 10-3-77) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.13 ENTERING FIREHOUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to enter the Fire Department
house or any place where equipment and apparatus of the Department is stored,
at any time, except on Fire Department or other city business.
(Ord. passed 10-3-77) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.14 OFFICER IN COMMAND WHILE IN ATTENDANCE AT FIRE.
   While the Fire Department is in attendance at a fire within the corporate
limits of the city, the Fire Chief, or in his absence, the next ranking officer
of the Department shall be the officer in command. All other fire departments
present and assisting shall be under the supervision and control of such
officer in command.
(Ord. passed 10-3-77)
§ 37.15 AID AND ASSISTANCE TO SISTER CITIES; FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICTS.
   It is the intent of the city and its Fire Department to aid and assist its
sister cities or fire protection districts in fire prevention and firefighting
if called upon for aid and assistance, but nothing in this section shall be
construed to impose a duty upon the Department beyond the discretion of the
Fire Chief.
(Ord. passed 10-3-77)
§ 37.16 PROTECTION OF THE COUNTY.
   The Fire Department may use its best efforts to protect life and property in
Grayson County.
(Ord. passed 10-3-77)
§ 37.17 FEES FOR REPETITIVE SERVICES.
   In the event that the City Fire Department responds to more than two calls
within any calendar year for the purpose of extinguishing a fire at the same
property address, the owner or owners of the real property and the occupant
thereof shall jointly and severally be responsible to pay to the city a fee in
the sum of $500 as reimbursement for the cost of each such additional response
by the Fire Department, as well as such additional costs as may reasonably be
shown to have been incurred by the city in responding to such call.
(Ord. passed 1-16-89; Am. Ord. 2024-04, passed 1-16-24)
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
more than $500 for each offense or violation.
CHAPTER 38: HUMAN RESOURCES
Section
Employment and Pay Classification Plan
   
38.01   Adoption of plan
   
38.02   Compensation to be fixed in accordance with plan
   
38.03   Basis for assignment to pay category
   
38.04   Classification of newly hired employees
   
38.05   Reviews; salary adjustments
   
38.06   Transfer of employee; applicable rate of compensation
   
38.07   Salary increase not guaranteed; termination of employees
   
38.08   Compensation schedule
   
38.09   Salaries to be based on hourly rate
   
38.10   Incentive payments from KLEP
   
38.11   Job classifications to be described in approved job descriptions
   
38.12   Participation in CERS
EMPLOYMENT AND PAY CLASSIFICATION PLAN
§ 38.01 ADOPTION OF PLAN.
   The employment and pay classification plan set forth in this chapter is
hereby adopted as applying to the city employees whose positions are listed in
§
38.08, and the pay range contained in the plan shall be the minimum and maximum
range within which each person employed in the applicable classification shall
be compensated.
(Ord. passed 6-21-82; Am. Ord. 99-12, passed 12-20-99; Am. Ord. 2023-25, passed
10-2-23)
§ 38.02 COMPENSATION TO BE FIXED IN ACCORDANCE WITH PLAN.
   The compensation of city employees shall be fixed in accordance with this
employment pay and classification plan and the Mayor shall adhere to the salary
ranges herein set forth in the hiring, appointing, promoting, and supervising
of city personnel.
(Ord. passed 6-21-82; Am. Ord. passed 1- -90)
§ 38.03 BASIS FOR ASSIGNMENT TO PAY CATEGORY.
   The pay category to which an employee is assigned shall be based upon the
skill held by the employee in performing his job assignment, the number of
years of service, as well as his or her overall job performance based upon
evaluation under departmental criteria as may from time to time be established
by the city.
(Ord. passed 1- -90)
§ 38.04 CLASSIFICATION OF NEWLY HIRED EMPLOYEES.
   Except in the case of newly hired employees possessing a high degree of
skill derived from education and/or experience, which would qualify him or her
to assignment in a higher job category, newly hired employees shall be
classified as "probationary".
(Am. Ord. passed 1- -90)
§ 38.05 REVIEWS; SALARY ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   After three (3) months continuous employment, the employee's salary
shall be reviewed and, at the option of the Mayor with the advice of City
Council, the employee's salary may be adjusted within the salary range
applicable to the job classification for which the employee is hired.
   (B)   Each employee's salary may be reviewed at any time and shall be
reviewed at least every two (2) years from the date of last salary review. At
the option of the Mayor with the advice of the City Council, the employee's
salary may be adjusted within the pay range applicable to the job
classification for which the employee is hired.
   (C)   Salary adjustment as used herein may result in either an increase or
decrease in salary and in making any such adjustment, the City shall consider
all relevant factors, including but not limited to, job performance, attitude,
specialized knowledge, integrity, ability and willingness to carry out
instructions along with length of employment.
(Ord. passed 6-21-82; Am. Ord. 98-1, passed 1-20-98; Am. Ord. 99-12, passed 12-
20-99; Am. Ord. 2002-5, passed 3-4-02)
§ 38.06 TRANSFER OF EMPLOYEES; APPLICABLE RATE OF COMPENSATION.
   An employee who is transferred from one job classification to another shall
be compensated at a rate applicable to the job classification to which that
employee is transferred.
(Ord. passed 6-21-82)
§ 38.07 SALARY INCREASE NOT GUARANTEED; TERMINATION OF EMPLOYEES.
   No employee shall, by virtue of this employment and pay classification plan,
be guaranteed any increase in wages or continued employment; all city
employees, unless otherwise provided by statute, city ordinance or contract,
shall be an employee-at-will, and as such is subject to termination with or
without cause at the will of the Mayor.
(Ord. passed 6-21-82; Am. Ord. 98-1, passed 1-20-98; Am. Ord. 99-12, passed 12-
20-99; Am. Ord. 2002-5, passed 3-4-02)
§ 38.08 COMPENSATION SCHEDULE.
   City employees are assigned to the authorized classes of positions listed
below. The number of positions within each class shall be determined during the
budget process. City employees shall be compensated according the numerical
grade designated for each class, at the minimum and maximum range, for both
annual salary and hourly rate, set forth in the salary scale table that
follows. The amounts set forth in the salary scale table shall be adjusted
annually by the percentage of increase or decrease in the consumer price index
as calculated by the Kentucky Department for Local Government. This
compensation plan does not include temporary or part-time positions. Employees
in temporary or part-time positions may be compensated at a rate below the
minimum for the class to which employees in full-time, established positions
are paid.
Position Grade
Position                                                Grade
City Clerk/Treasurer                                    47
Finance Officer                                         47
City Operations/Safety Coordinator                      38
Assistant Office Manager/Billing Manager                36
Human Resources Officer                                 34
Accounts Receivable Clerk                               24
Accounts Payable Clerk                                  24
Utility Billing Clerk 1                                 24
Utility Billing Clerk/GIS Manager                       28
Zoning Administrator                                    40
Code Enforcement                                        31
Fire Chief                                              41
Assistant Fire Chief                                    34
Firefighter                                             28
Chief of Police                                         46
Police Administrative Assistant.                        26
Assistant Chief of Police                               41
Police Captain                                          36
Detective                                               33
Police Sergeant                                         34
Police Lieutenant                                       35
Police Officer                                          29
Police Officer (Recruit)                                27
Animal Shelter & Control Director                       30
Animal Shelter & Control Assistant Director             28
Animal Control Officer                                  24
Public Works Director                                   45
Public Works Superintendent                             39
Public Works/Planning & Zoning Administrative Assistant 26
Equipment Operator II (Maintenance)                     27
Equipment Operator I (Maintenance)                      25
Maintenance Worker III                                  27
Maintenance Worker II.                                  25
Maintenance Worker 1                                    23
Equipment Operator II (Transfer Station)                27
Equipment Operator I (Transfer Station)                 25
Transfer Station Secretary/Scale House Operator         23
Equipment Operator II (Solid Waste)                     27
Equipment Operator I (Solid Waste)                      25
Solid Waste Worker                                      23
Equipment Operator II (Recycling)                       27
Equipment Operator I (Recycling)                        25
Recycling Center Operator                               23
Mechanic Supervisor                                     30
Mechanic                                                27
Parks & Recreation Director                             35
Parks & Recreation Administrative Assistant             24
Parks Maintenance Worker                                24
Ground/Ballparks Maintenance Supervisor                 30
Aquatic Center Maintenance/AFO                          30
Utilities Superintendent                                47
Utilities Maintenance Supervisor                        39
Utilities Equipment Operator III                        30
Utilities Equipment Operator II                         27
Utilities Equipment Operator 1                          25
Utilities Maintenance Worker III                        27
Utilities Maintenance Worker II                         25
Utilities Maintenance Worker 1                          23
Utilities Meter Reader                                  25
Utilities Locator 1                                     27
Utilities Locator II                                    29
Utilities Leak Detection Specialist                     29
Chief Operator (Water Plant)                            39
Water Plant Operator IV                                 31
Water Plant Operator III                                29
Water Plant Operator II                                 27
Water Plant Operator 1                                  25
Maintenance Technician.                                 27
Chief Operator (Wastewater Plant)                       39
Wastewater Plant Operator III                           29
Wastewater Plant Operator II                            27
Wastewater Plant Operator I                             25
Operator in Training OIT                                23
Geographic Information System Coordinator               30
Natural Gas Manager                                     38
Maintenance Technician (Gas)                            25
Maintenance Shop Manager                                26
Tourism Director                                        40
Industrial Development/Economic Development Coordinator 40
Administrative Assistant                                24
 
SALARY SCALE
Grade Min. Max.  Grade Min. Max.  Grade Min. Max.
SALARY SCALE
Grade Min.   Max.    Grade Min.   Max.    Grade Min.   Max.
11    17,202 26,894  24    28,642 42,772  38    49,599 71,728
      8.27   12.93         13.77  20.56         23.85  34.48
12    17,890 27,873  25    29,788 44,357  39    51,582 74,471
      8.60   13.40         14.32  21.33         24.80  35.80
13    18,605 28,863  26    30,979 46,007  40    53,646 77,326
      8.94   13.88         14.89  22.12         25.79  37.18
14    19,349 29,892  27    32,218 47,721  41    55,792 80,293
      9.30   14.37         15.49  22.94         26.82  38.60
15    20,123 30,983  28    33,507 49,505  42    58,023 83,380
      9.67   14.90         16.11  23.80         27.90  40.09
16    20,928 32,097  29    34,847 51,325  43    60,344 86,590
      10.06  15.43         16.75  24.68         29.01  41.63
17    21,766 33,255  30    36,241 53,253  44    62,758 65,268
      10.46  15.99         17.42  25.60         30.17  43.23
18    22,636 34,460  31    37,691 55,258  45    65,268 93,401
      10.88  16.57         18.12  26.57         31.38  44.90
19    23,542 35,713  32    39,198 57,432  46    67,879 97,012
      11.32  17.17         18.85  27.57         32.63  46.64
20    24,483 37,016  33    40,766 59,512  47    70,594 100,767
      11.77  17.80         19.60  28.61         33.94  48.45
21    25,463 38,371  34    42,397 61,767  48    73,418 104,673
      12.24  18.45         20.38  29.70         35.30  50.32
22    26,481 39,781  35    44,093 64,113  49    76,355 108,735
      12.73  19.13         21.20  30.82         36.71  52.28
23    27,540 41,247  36    45,857 66,552  50    79,409 112,958
      13,24  19.83         22.05  32.00         38.18  54.31
                    37    47,691 69,088
                          22.93  33.22
 
(Am. Ord. 98-1, passed 1-20-98; Am. Ord. 99-12, passed 12-20-99; Am. Ord. 2002-
5, passed 3-4-02; Am. Ord. 2023-25, passed 10-2-23)
§ 38.09 SALARIES TO BE BASED ON HOURLY RATE.
   Except as otherwise specifically indicated, the wages are based upon an
hourly rate. Those employees who are paid a set salary per month are employed
in a supervisory capacity and no overtime premium shall be paid.
(Ord. passed 1- -90; Am. Ord. 99-12, passed 12-20-99)
§ 38.10 INCENTIVE PAYMENTS FROM KLEP.
   In addition to the salaries set forth in §
38.08, eligible employees shall receive incentive payments from the Kentucky
Law Enforcement Program.
(Ord. passed 1 - -90; Am. Ord. 98-1, passed 1-20-98; Am. Ord. 99-12, passed 12-
20-99)
§ 38.11 JOB CLASSIFICATIONS TO BE DESCRIBED IN APPROVED JOB DESCRIPTIONS.
   Each job classification shall be described in a separate codified job
description which shall be approved by the Mayor and which may from time to
time be amended.
(Ord. passed 1- -90)
Cross-reference:
   See Ethics Code,
Ch. 38A
§ 38.12 PARTICIPATION IN CERS.
   The city is authorized to participate in the County Employees Retirement
System effective July 1, 1987. All eligible regular full-time officers and
employees are authorized and directed to participate in compliance with the
statutory requirements of CERS.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 9-3-96)
CHAPTER 38A: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
38A.01   Title
   
38A.02   Purpose and authority
   
38A.03   Definitions
Conflicts of Interest
   
38A.10   Conflicts of interests in contracts
   
38A.11   Actions taken in furtherance of a personal interest
   
38A.12   Receipt of gifts
   
38A.13   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
38A.14   Representation of interest before city government
   
38A.15   Misuse of confidential information
Financial Disclosure
   
38A.20   Who must file
   
38A.21   When to file statements; amended statements
   
38A.22   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
38A.23   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interest
   
38A.24   Contents of the financial interest statement
Nepotism
   
38A.30   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
38A.40   Enforcement officer created
   
38A.41   Power and duties of the enforcement officer
   
38A.42   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
38A.43   Notice of hearing
   
38A.44   Hearing procedure
   
38A.45   Appeals
   
38A.46   Limitation of actions
Penalties
   
38A.99   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38A.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "City of Leitchfield,
Kentucky Code of Ethics."
§ 38A.02 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this ordinance to meet the requirements
of KRS 65.003 as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and other relevant statutory enactments.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
§ 38A.03 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a candidate when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the county clerk or secretary of
state, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the county clerk or secretary of
state.
   CITY. The City of Leitchfield, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term "employee"
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer's or employee's household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer's or employee's spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor.
      (2)   A City Councilmember.
      (3)   The City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (4)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office.
      (5)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 38A.10 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply
to contracts entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for
city office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office, or before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However,
if any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as
an employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, the prohibition in subsection (A)
of this section shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply
if the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless
the officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the
contract specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract
performance after the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any
of the authorities set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or
employee shall have no interest in the contract, unless the requirements set
forth in subsection (3) below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in subsection A of this section shall not apply in
any case where the following requirements are satisfied.
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer's or employee's interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the City Council or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the City
Council or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the City Council or city agency that the
contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests of the public
and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or other specific
reason.
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the City
Council or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)    Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
§ 38A.11 ACTIONS TAKEN IN FURTHERANCE OF A PERSONAL INTEREST.
   No elected or nonelected officer or employee shall use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or others.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
§ 38A.12 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No city official or employee shall accept or solicit any gift or favor that
might reasonably tend to influence that individual in discharge of official
duties, or that the official or employee knows or should know has been offered
with the intent to influence or pay for such official conduct. Exempted from
this section are meals received at no charge to the city official or employee
as long as same are not received on a regular or ongoing basis, and lawful
campaign contributions which are reported. Further excepted are the following:
   (1)   Gifts received from relatives.
   (2)   Gifts accepted on behalf of the City and transferred to the City.
   (3)   Reasonable travel and travel related expenses, cost of admission, food
and beverages, and entertainment furnished in connection with certain specified
public events, appearances, ceremonies, economic development activities, or
fact finding trips relating to official government business.
   (4)   Usual and customary loans made in the ordinary course of business.
   (5)   Awards presented in recognition of public service.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
§ 38A.13 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property, or labor
or services for the private use of any person, unless:
   (1)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy, and
   (2)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
§ 38A.14 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent,
for compensation, any other private person, group or entity before any
department, commission, board or committee of the city. No salaried city
official or employee shall represent, directly or indirectly, any other private
person, group or entity in an action or proceeding against the interests of the
city, or in any litigation in which the city or department, commission, board
or committee thereof is a party; provided, however, that nothing herein shall
limit the authority of the City Attorney and his staff to represent the city,
its boards, committees and officers in the discharge of his duties.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
§ 38A.15 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 38A.20 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Clerk/
Treasurer:
   (1)   Elected officials.
   (2)   Candidates for city elective office.
(KRS 65.003)
   (3)   Members of any city planning and zoning commission and board of
adjustment, as well as the City of Leitchfield Utilities Commission, the City
of Leitchfield Tourism and Convention Commission as well as any official board
established subsequent to the publication date of this section.
   (4)   Nonelected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or award contracts,
leases or agreements.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94; Am. Ord. 2011-12, passed 11-7-11)
§ 38A.21 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer beginning January 30, 1995 and
January 30 of each ensuing year. Provided however that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency file his or her initial
statement no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than thirty (30) days after the date on which the person becomes a
candidate for elected city office.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer may grant a reasonable extension for filing a
statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer, the
officer or employee shall, no later than thirty (30) days after becoming aware
of the material change, file an amended statement with the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
§ 38A.22 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics or the administrative official designated by the City
Council. The City Clerk/Treasurer, or the designated administrative official,
shall deliver a copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file
the statement, by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than January 30
of each year. The failure of the City Clerk/Treasurer or the designated
administrative official to deliver a copy of the form to any officer or
employee shall not relieve the officer or employee of the obligation to file
the statement.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
§ 38A.23 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall be the "official custodian" of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests
shall be maintained by the City Clerk/Treasurer, or the administrative official
designated by the Council as the "custodian," as public documents, available
for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the City
Clerk/Treasurer or the designated administrative official for a period of five
(5) years after filing, provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three (3) years after a person ceases to be
an officer or employee of the city or city agency, the City Clerk/Treasurer
shall cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of
those statements filed by the person.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three (3) years after any election at which
a candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the City
Clerk/Treasurer shall cause to be destroyed any statements of financial
interests or copies of those statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
§ 38A.24 CONTENTS OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall include the following information
for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)    The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer.
      (2)    The title of the filer's office, office sought, or position of
employment.
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer's spouse.
      (4)   The location of any real property located within the city in which
the city official or spouse has an ownership or other financial interest in
excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000).
      (5)   The name of any partnership, unincorporated association, or other
incorporated business of which a city official or spouse is an officer,
employee or partner, or in which the city official or spouse has a proprietary
interest, and the spouse's position, if any, with the partnership, association,
or business, if any such entity has engaged within the past 12 months or which
is anticipated to have any business dealings with the city.
      (6)   The name of any corporation of which the city official or a spouse
is an officer, director or employee or of which he or she or the spouse legally
or beneficially owns or controls more than five percent (5%) of the outstanding
stock, and any such entity as engaged within the past 12 months or which is
anticipated to have any business dealings with the city and the city's
officials and spouse's position with the corporation.
      (7)   The name of any person from whom the city official or his or her
spouse has derived during the previous calendar year any income or other
financial benefit in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000) whereby such
income or other financial benefit was derived from business dealings with the
city.
NEPOTISM
§ 38A.30 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   This prohibition does not affect the status of persons appointed or
employed prior to the election or appointment of a family member.
   (B)   After adoption of this chapter, no family member of any elected or
appointed official shall be appointed to any office or hired as a full-time,
permanent, regular employee of the city.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94; Am. Ord. 98-9, passed 12-7-98; Am. Ord. 2011-12,
passed 11-7-11)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 38A.40 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER CREATED.
   (A) There is hereby created an Enforcement Officer who shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this ordinance.
   (B)   The Enforcement Officer shall be appointed within sixty (60) days of
the effective date of this chapter and his term shall be for a period of two
(2) years beginning on January 1, 1995.
   (C)   The Enforcement Officer may be removed by the Mayor, subject to the
approval of the City Council for misconduct, inability or willful neglect of
duties. Before the Enforcement Officer is removed from office under this
section, he shall be afforded the opportunity for a hearing before the Mayor
and the City Council.
   (D)   A vacancy created by absence of the Enforcement Officer shall be
filled within sixty (60) days by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City
Council. If a vacancy is not filled by the Mayor within sixty (60) days, the
City Council shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the
remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   The Enforcement Officer shall be reimbursed for all necessary and
reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of his duties and he shall be
paid the customary hourly fee for services rendered.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
§ 38A.41 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Enforcement Officer shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on his own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, make findings of fact and determinations with regard to alleged
violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with his investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths.
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing.
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
Mayor of the city, the City Council, the governing body of any city agency, the
County Attorney, or other appropriate person or body, as necessary.
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter.
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to insure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
ordinance and the Kentucky Open Records Act.
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the Mayor or City Council.
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
§ 38A.42 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics or the administrative
official designated by the Enforcement Officer, or the administrative official
designated by him or the City Clerk/Treasurer. All complaints shall be in
writing, signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements
established by the Enforcement Officer. The Enforcement Officer shall
acknowledge receipt of a complaint to the complainant within ten (10) working
days from the date of receipt. The Enforcement Officer shall forward within ten
(10) working days to each officer or employee of the city or city agency who is
the subject of the complaint a copy of the complaint and a general statement of
the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of a proper complaint the
Enforcement Officer shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the
allegations contained in the complaint. The Officer shall afford a person who
is the subject of the complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in
the complaint. The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to
appear and be heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the
allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Enforcement Officer shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Officer except:
      (1)   The Officer may turn over to the Commonwealth's Attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Officer may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at his discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Enforcement Officer shall make a determination based on
preliminary inquiry whether the complaint is within his jurisdiction and, if
so, whether it alleges a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of
this chapter. If the Officer concludes that the complaint is outside of his
jurisdiction, frivolous or without factual basis, the Officer shall immediately
terminate the inquiry, reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of
his decision to the complainant and to all officers or employees against whom
the complaint was filed.
   (E)   If the Enforcement Officer concludes, based upon preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as, lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government issue, in writing, a confidential reprimand to the officer
or employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the Mayor, City Council, and governing body or city
agency.
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Enforcement Officer a false
complaint alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer
or employee of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
§ 38A.43 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   If the Enforcement Officer determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, then he shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within thirty (30) days of the date the order is
issued, unless the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a
later date. The order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any
pertinent regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the
alleged violator within twenty-four (24) hours of the time the order setting a
hearing is issued.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
§ 38A.44 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however,
the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all documents
and records obtained or prepared by the Officer in connection with the matter
to be heard. The Officer shall inform the alleged violator, or his
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in his possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a hearing shall be taken under oath, administered by
the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call and examine
witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to submit
evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the right
to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings shall be public, unless conducted in executive session in
accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Enforcement Officer shall, as
soon as practicable, begin reviewing the evidence before him and making a
determination whether a violation of this chapter has been proven. Within
thirty (30) days after completion of the hearing, the Enforcement Officer shall
issue a written report of his findings and conclusions.
   (G)   If the Enforcement Officer concludes in his report that no violation
of this chapter has occurred, he shall immediately send written notice of this
determination to the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint
and to the party who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Enforcement Officer concludes in his report that, in
consideration of the evidence produced at the hearing, there is clear and
convincing proof of a violation of this chapter, the Enforcement Officer may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation.
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the Mayor and City Council and governing
body of the city agency with which the violator serves.
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the Mayor and the City Council that the
violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Enforcement Officer, which may
include a recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office.
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000.
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this ordinance or state
laws to the County Attorney or Commonwealth's Attorney of Grayson County for
prosecution.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
§ 38A.45 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Enforcement Officer may appeal the finding to the Grayson County
Circuit Court within thirty (30) days after the date of the final action of the
Enforcement Officer by filing a petition with the court against the Enforcement
Officer. The Enforcement Officer shall transmit to the Clerk of the Court all
evidence considered by the Enforcement Officer at the public hearing.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
§ 38A.46 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one (1) year
after the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
§ 38A.99 PENALTIES.
   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter, any
officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Enforcement Officer to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by
the Enforcement Officer not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000), which may
be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the
offender fails to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
(Ord. 94-11, passed 10-17-94)
CHAPTER 39: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
39.01   Police Department established; composition
   
39.02   Definitions
   
39.03   Appointment of Chief of Police; Department members
   
39.04   Rank and supervision of Department members
   
39.05   Powers and duties of Chief of Police
   
39.06   Responsibility of off-duty police officers
   
39.07   Arrest fees of the Police Department; collection, payment and
application
Patrol Persons
   
39.20   Responsibilities and standards
   
39.21   Probationary period for appointees
   
39.22   Patrol persons to wear regulation
   
39.23   Vehicle to be clean and refueled at completion of duty
Rules and Regulations
   
39.35   Leaving the city during patrol duty
   
39.36   Attention to duty
   
39.37   Sleeping on duty
   
39.38   Use of Department property for private purposes
   
39.39   False reports prohibited
   
39.40   Insubordination; right to appeal
   
39.41   Courtesy required
   
39.42   Required conduct; discrediting Department
   
39.43   Furnishing name and badge number
   
39.44   Damaging or destroying Police Department or city property
   
39.45   Department members to report lost equipment
   
39.46   Ineffective performance of duties
   
39.47   Games of chance
   
39.48   Drinking; intoxication
   
39.49   Aiding prisoners
   
39.50   Physical altercations
   
39.51   Disorderly conduct
   
39.52   Payment of bills; selling of wages
   
39.53   Release of confidential information
   
39.54   Stolen or abandoned property
   
39.55   Acceptance of presents
   
39.56   Bribes
   
39.57   Issuance; discharging of firearms
   
39.58   Range practice
   
39.59   Posting of; compliance with rules, regulations and other laws;
enforcement
Employment Policies
   
39.70   High school graduation required
   
39.71   Contract for employment; refund of past pay
   
39.72   Absence from duty
   
39.73   Notification of address and telephone number changes
   
39.74   Resignation
   
39.75   Employment outside the Police Department
Cross-reference:
   Police Department compensation schedule, see §
38.08(B)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.01 POLICE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION.
   There having heretofore been established a Police Department for the city,
said Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and such other members of
the Department as may be provided by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75; Am. Ord. 2024-11, passed 3-18-24)
§ 39.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Police Department of the city.
   MEMBERS. Patrol persons and civilian employees of the Police Department.
   OFFICERS. Those members of the Police Department having the power of arrest.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75)
§ 39.03 APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF OF POLICE; DEPARTMENT MEMBERS.
   (A)   There is hereby created the non-elective office “Chief of Police,” who
shall take the Constitutional oath as well as the oath required by KRS 62.040
and KRS 95.760 and he or she shall execute bond with surety to be approved by
the City Council.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall be in command of the city police department,
perform all statutory duties imposed upon him or her and shall have all powers
conferred by statute; he or she shall attend all sessions of the city
legislative body and he or she shall perform such other duties as may be
required by the executive authority and legislative bodies.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall receive the compensation set forth in the
city personnel and pay classification plan, which may be hereafter changed by
municipal order.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the executive authority of
the city with the approval of the legislative body which is elected at the
November election preceding the commencement of his or her term. He or she
shall hold his or her office for a period of two (2) years and until his or her
successor is appointed subject to removal at any time, the first of said terms
begin on the first Monday of January 1982. Provided, however, that the present
Chief of Police shall complete the previously appointed term which shall expire
on the first Monday of January 1982.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75; Am. Ord. 2019-14, passed 9-26-19)
§ 39.04 RANK AND SUPERVISION OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS.
   The Mayor shall be the head of the Police Department; the Chief of Police
shall be second in command and shall have supervision over all other members of
the Department.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75; Am. Ord. 2019-14, passed 9-26-19)
§ 39.05 POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall be in command of the City Police Department
as set out in divisions (B) through (G) of this section, shall perform all
statutory duties imposed upon him and shall have all powers conferred by
statute; he shall attend all sessions of the city legislative body and he shall
perform such other duties as may be required by the executive authority and
legislative bodies.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall keep such records and make such reports
concerning the activities of his Department as may be required by statute or by
the Mayor. He shall be specifically charged with the supervision of all members
of the Department and shall be held strictly responsible for the conduct and
efficiency of all such members for the general good order of the Department,
subject to the final authority of the Mayor. He shall have regular hours of
duty during each working day. He shall, when going on duty, immediately
familiarize himself with all police business transacted since his last tour of
duty. The Chief of Police shall diligently inquire into all complaints and
charges of laxity and misconduct in the performance of duty by members under
his command, and shall take such steps as set forth in this chapter as he may
deem necessary when not in conflict with this chapter, and subject to the final
authority of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Chief of Police in the exercise of his duties shall have the power
to establish and enforce rules and regulations for the government of the
members and employees of the Department, which rules shall, however, be
consistent with the ordinances of the city and the laws of the state, and shall
be approved by the Mayor.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to cause the public peace
to be preserved and to enforce all ordinances of the city of which the Police
Department must take cognizance. The Chief of Police shall receive and give
proper attention to complaints of all persons referred to him and perform such
other duties as may be required from time to time as prescribed by this
chapter.
   (E)   The Chief of Police shall have full power and authority to reprimand
any member of the Police Department, and to file charges against any member of
the Police Department with the Mayor for a hearing for non-conformance with the
provisions of this chapter. The Mayor's decision may be appealed to City
Council.
   (F)   The Chief of Police shall have custody and control of all books,
records, machines, tools, apparatus, or equipment of every kind necessary for
the use of the Department.
   (G)   All the rules and regulations which follow in this chapter and which
are applicable to the members of the Police Department are also applicable to
the Chief of Police.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75; Am. Ord. passed 12-15-80; Am. Ord. 2019-14, passed 9-26-
19)
§ 39.06 RESPONSIBILITY OF OFF-DUTY POLICE OFFICERS.
   Members of the Police Department will have regular hours assigned to them
for active duty each day, and when not so employed, they shall be considered
off-duty. They shall, however, be held to be subject to duty at all times, and
although practically relieved from the routine performance of duty, are at all
times subject to orders from the proper authorities and to calls from
superiors. The fact that they may be technically off-duty shall not relieve
them from the responsibility of taking proper police action in any matter
coming to their attention at any time.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75)
§ 39.07 ARREST FEES OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT; COLLECTION, PAYMENT AND
APPLICATION.
   (A)   Each offense punishable by fine or imprisonment for which any police
officer of the city makes an arrest, issues a citation, or serves a criminal
summons shall carry, with costs otherwise incurred by reason of law, such fees
as are allowable a Sheriff for the same services upon conviction.
   (B)   These fees shall be payable to the Grayson Circuit Clerk and paid to
the City Treasurer in the normal course of the Clerk's business.
   (C)   All fees collected hereunder shall be paid into the general fund of
the city.
(Ord. passed 12-3-79)
PATROL PERSONS
§ 39.20 RESPONSIBILITIES AND STANDARDS.
   Every patrol person, in carrying out the functions of the Police Department,
namely, the preservation of the public peace, the protection of life and
property, the prevention of crime, the arrest of violators of the law, the
proper enforcement of all the laws and ordinances of which the Department takes
cognizance, shall be consistently direct in their efforts to accomplish that
end intelligently and efficiently, and shall hold themselves in readiness at
all times to answer the calls and obey the orders of their superiors, and shall
be accountable to their superior officers for the general condition of the city
during the hours assigned to them.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75)
§ 39.21 PROBATIONARY PERIOD FOR APPOINTEES.
   All original appointments shall be for a probational period of one year from
the completion of the Department of Criminal Justice Training (DOCJT) or one
year from the date of hire if already certified. Continuance in service shall
be dependent upon the conduct of the appointee and the officer’s fitness for
the performance of the duties to which the officer is assigned as indicated by
the quality of the officer’s work and the reports and recommendations of the
officer’s superior officers. If, during the said probationary time period the
appointee proves unfit, the officer will be dismissed from the service by the
Mayor.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75; Am. Ord. 2024-07, passed 2-19-24)
§ 39.22 PATROL PERSONS TO WEAR REGULATION UNIFORMS.
   Patrol persons, unless otherwise ordered, shall wear the regulation uniforms
in keeping with the specifications, including materials, designated and adopted
by the Police Department Police Chief.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75; Am. Ord. 2020-15, passed 9-21-20)
§ 39.23 VEHICLE TO BE CLEAN AND REFUELED AT COMPLETION OF DUTY.
   Patrol persons assigned to patrol duty shall at the completion of their
tours of duty, check the vehicle used and see that the same is left in a clean
condition and refueled and ready for the incoming shift.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 39.35 LEAVING THE CITY DURING PATROL DUTY.
   No member of the Police Department doing patrol duty shall go beyond the
limits of the city unless in the performance of actual police duty, or upon
direct orders from the superior officer.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.36 ATTENTION TO DUTY.
   All regular members of the Police Department, regardless of rank shall at
all times be attentive, to their duties.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.37 SLEEPING ON DUTY.
   Sleeping or loafing on duty is a serious dereliction and any member or
employee of the Police Department guilty of such conduct is subject to charges
of neglect of duty.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.38 USE OF DEPARTMENT PROPERTY FOR PRIVATE PURPOSES.
   Police Department stationery shall not be used for personal correspondence,
nor shall any Department property, whatsoever, be used for private purposes.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.39 FALSE REPORTS PROHIBITED.
   No member of the Police Department shall knowingly make a misstatement or
make a false report.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.40 INSUBORDINATION; RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Members and employees of the Police Department shall treat their superior
officers with respect, and in their demeanor toward other associates in the
Department shall be courteous and considerate, guarding themselves against
jealously and other unfriendly feelings. It is their duty to inform their
superior officers of any neglect or disobedience of orders that may come to
their knowledge. Members and employees shall not, under any manner whatsoever,
speak critically or derogatorily to any member of the Department, or to any
person outside the Department regarding the orders or instructions issued by a
superior officer; provided, however, in any case where there is a sound reason
to believe that such orders or instructions are inconsistent or unjust, it is
the right and duty of any member or employee to appeal to higher authority.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.41 COURTESY REQUIRED.
   Courtesy and civility towards the public are demanded from all members and
employees of the Police Department and any conduct to the contrary will not be
tolerated.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.42 REQUIRED CONDUCT; DISCREDITING DEPARTMENT.
   Members and employees of the Police Department in their conduct shall be
quiet, civil and orderly and shall at all times be attentive and serious in the
discharge of their duties, controlling their tempers and exercising the utmost
patience and discretion. They must at all times refrain from using violent,
profane, and insolent language, but when required, must act with sufficient
force to perform their duties. They shall be civil and respectful towards each
other.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.43 FURNISHING NAME AND BADGE NUMBER.
   A police officer shall furnish or render such aid to all persons when
requested, as is consistent with his duties. He shall at all times, when in
uniform, keep his badge in sight, and give his name and badge number in a
respectful manner when requested.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.44 DAMAGING OR DESTROYING POLICE DEPARTMENT OR CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   Members and employees of the Police Department shall be responsible
for the good care of Department property whether fixed or movable, assigned to
their use of keeping, and shall promptly report to their commanding officers
the loss or damage to or unserviceable condition of such property. Roughness or
carelessness in the handling of such property will not be tolerated and will be
made the subject of charges of superior officers who will be responsible for
the strict enforcement of this rule.
   (B)   Any member found guilty of damages to or destruction of city property,
either through wilfulness or negligence, shall be required to pay all costs of
repairs or replacements thereto, besides suffering any penalty for the
violation of this section.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.45 DEPARTMENT MEMBERS TO REPORT LOST EQUIPMENT.
   All members of the Police Department shall immediately report to the Chief
of Police the loss of any city equipment that has been furnished to the
individual.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.46 INEFFECTIVE PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES.
   No member of the Police Department shall perform his duty or duties in an
ineffective manner.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.47 GAMES OF CHANCE.
   Police officers shall not engage in any illegal games of chance.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.48 DRINKING; INTOXICATION.
   Members of the Police Department shall not drink any intoxicating liquor
while either on duty, or in uniform, or report for duty after having consumed
any intoxicating liquor.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.49 AIDING PRISONERS.
   No member of the Police Department shall aid any prisoner in obtaining an
attorney or a bondsman.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.50 PHYSICAL ALTERCATIONS.
   Members of the Police Department shall refrain from physical altercations
except in line of duty and shall not mistreat any person or prisoner.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.51 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No member of the Police Department shall conduct himself in a disorderly
manner, or any other manner as to bring discredit upon the Department.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.52 PAYMENT OF BILLS; SELLING OF WAGES.
   Members of the Police Department shall pay when due all just bills and
obligations owed by such member, and such member shall not incur or become
liable for obligations which he, in the reasonable course of events, could not
possibly meet at their maturity. No member of the Department shall sell or
assign any wages to be received from the Police Department.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.53 RELEASE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No member of the Police Department shall give out or release any
information covering the affairs, business or operation of the Police
Department without the consent of the commanding officer.
   (B)   Members and employees of the Police Department shall not deliver
addresses in meetings concerning the work of the Police Department, nor shall
they make statements for publication concerning plans, policies or affairs of
the Police Department unless authorized to do so by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.54 STOLEN OR ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   It shall be the duty of all officers, upon the finding or recovery of any
abandoned vehicle or stolen property, or abandoned property, to bring such
property to the police station, placing such property in the care of the Chief
of Police. In the case of vehicles, such will be placed in the care of the tow-
in service.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75)
§ 39.55 ACCEPTANCE OF PRESENTS.
   No member of the Police Department shall accept any fee, reward, or gift of
any kind from persons arrested or from any friend in his behalf while he is in
custody, or after his release or discharge. Members of the Police Department
shall not accept presents or gifts from other members of the Department,
groups, clubs, associations, societies, citizens, lodges or political parties.
Members of the Police Department shall not solicit contributions for a fund for
the purpose of presenting other members of the Department with a gift unless
authorized by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.56 BRIBES.
   No member of the Police Department shall accept bribes of money, gifts or
other articles of apparent or actual value.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.57 ISSUANCE; DISCHARGING OF FIREARMS.
   All regular members of the Police Department shall be issued a revolver or
automatic pistol approved by the Chief of Police. Each officer shall be issued
a prescribed amount of ammunition and no further issue of ammunition shall be
made until and unless a written report covering the use of such ammunition be
made and submitted to the Chief of Police and in turn submitted with the
Chief's monthly report to the Mayor, who shall report to City Council as he
deems advisable. The same shall be submitted for inspection, and the member
shall be qualified for use of firearms by a training course adopted by the
Department.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.58 RANGE PRACTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to arrange target practice at a
designated time or place, at which time the officers practicing shall be
considered on duty.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75)
§ 39.59 POSTING OF; COMPLIANCE WITH RULES, REGULATIONS AND OTHER LAWS;
ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Rules and regulations should be posted.
   (B)   In addition to the rules and regulations set out in this chapter as
established by City Council, the laws of the state, ordinances of the city, and
federal laws pertaining to and affecting police officers shall be the governing
factors in the conduct of all members of the Police Department, who shall at
all times be subject to the same.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to enforce the rules and
regulations set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   A copy of the rules and regulations set forth in this chapter shall be
delivered as promptly as possible by the Chief of Police to each member of the
Police Department.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75)
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
§ 39.70 HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATION REQUIRED.
   From and after the effective date of this section, each and every officer
hired by the city shall have completed and graduated from high school, provided
that those officers now employed need not have this qualification; and such
qualification shall be in addition to those enacted by the General Assembly.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 39.71 CONTRACT FOR EMPLOYMENT; REFUND OF PAST PAY.
   (A)   Each officer receiving benefits under this subchapter pursuant to §
39.72(D) and (E) shall contract with the city for employment at the rate of one
month for each hour of collect credit earned during his training provided by
the city.
   (B)   Failure to continue employment with the city pursuant to the contract
shall provide that the defaulting officer refund to the city so much of his
past annual pay attributable to any increase by reason of such training.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 39.72 ABSENCE FROM DUTY.
   No member of the Police Department shall be absent from his regular hours of
duty without permission. In the event of sickness, notice shall be given to the
commanding officer, allowing him ample time to cancel days off or make other
necessary changes to fill the vacancy of any such persons reporting sick.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75)
§ 39.73 NOTIFICATION OF ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER CHANGES.
   Members of the Police Department shall notify the Chief of Police of any
change in their residence address or telephone number.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75)
§ 39.74 RESIGNATION.
   (A)   All members of the Police Department shall give fourteen (14) days
written notice to the Chief of Police or commanding officer of their intentions
of resigning from the Police Department.
   (B)   Any members leaving the Department without due notice as set out in
division (A) above, shall be disqualified from ever again becoming a member of
the Police Department. However, before any resignation is accepted, all
equipment and property belonging to the city must be returned to the commanding
officer.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75)
§ 39.75 EMPLOYMENT OUTSIDE THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   All members of the Police Department shall devote their entire and exclusive
time to the business of the Police Department. Any outside employment or
business interests that do not interfere with the efficiency of the Police
Department may be submitted in writing to the Chief of Police for his approval.
(Ord. passed 9-15-75)
Cross-reference:
   See Ethics Code,
Ch. 38A
CHAPTER 40: DEPARTMENTS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Tourism and Convention Commission
   
40.01   Commission established; title
   
40.02   Members
   
40.03   Terms
   
40.04   Meetings
   
40.05   Request for funds
   
40.06   Transient room tax
   
40.07   Financial records
   
40.08   Audit
   
40.09   Restaurant tax
Code Enforcement Board
   
40.20   Definitions
   
40.21   Creation and membership
   
40.22   Enforcement powers
   
40.23   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation
   
40.24   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum
   
40.25   Conflict of interest
   
40.26   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
40.27   Enforcement proceedings
   
40.28   Hearing; notice; final order
   
40.29   Presentation of cases
   
40.30   Appeals; final judgment
   
40.31   Ordinance fine schedule
   
40.32   Lien; fines, charges, and fees
   
40.33   Lienholder notification system
   
40.34   Liens
   
40.35   Immediate action
   
40.36   International Property Maintenance Code
   
40.37   Jurisdiction
   
40.38   Validity of existing liens previously filed
 
   
40.99   Penalty
§ 40.01 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; TITLE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Convention and Tourist Commission for
the city pursuant to KRS 91A.350 for the purpose of promoting and developing
convention activities and tourist activities and facilities in the said city.
   (B)   The official name of the body herein created shall be designated as
“The City of Leitchfield Tourism and convention Commission.”
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 5-2-11)
§ 40.02 MEMBERS.
   The members of the Commission herein established shall be appointed pursuant
to KRS 91A.360 in the following matter. There shall be seven members appointed
by the City Mayor as follows:
   (A)   Two Commissioners shall be appointed from a list of three or more
names submitted by the local city hotel and motel association and one
Commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three or more names submitted by
the local county hotel and motel association; provided if only one local and
motel association exists which covers both the city and county, then three
Commissioners shall be appointed from a list of six or more names submitted by
it. In the event that no formal local city or county hotel and motel
association is in existence upon the establishment of the Commission or upon
expiration of the term of a Commissioner appointed pursuant to this section,
then up to three Commissioners shall be appointed by the City Mayor from
persons residing within the jurisdiction of the Commission and representing
local hotels or motels.
   (B)   One Commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three or more names
submitted by the local restaurant association or associations. If no formal
local restaurant association or associations exist upon the establishment of
the Commission or upon the expiration of the term of a Commissioner appointed
pursuant to this section, then one Commissioner shall be appointed by the City
Mayor from persons residing within the city representing a local restaurant.
   (C)   One Commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three or more names
submitted by the Chamber of Commerce.
   (D)   Two Commissioners shall be appointed by the City Mayor.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 5-2-11)
§ 40.03 TERMS.
   (A)   The Commissioners shall be appointed for terms of three years,
provided, that in making the initial appointments, the City Mayor shall appoint
two Commissioners for a term of three years, two Commissioners for a term of
two years and three Commissioners for a term of one year. There shall be no
limitation on the number of terms to which a Commissioner is reappointed.
Subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years.
   (B)   The Chairman of the Commission shall be paid the sum of $250 per month
and the remaining members of the Commission shall be paid the sum of $150 per
month during their respective terms effective July 1, 2020.
   (C)   In the event a vacancy shall occur on the Commission, the replacement
shall be appointed as prescribed above for the remaining terms of the
Commissioner who created a vacancy.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 2018-10, passed 6-18-18; Am. Ord. 2020-
07, passed 5-18-20)
§ 40.04 MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall beet at least monthly and have special meetings which
may be called by the Chairman or an two Commissioners upon giving a five day
advance oral or written notice. The Commission shall elect a Chairman and
Treasurer at its first meeting following its establishment and annually on its
first meeting in July of each subsequent year. The Commission shall further
elect a vice-Chairman to preside over meetings in the absence of the Chairman.
Action may be taken by a majority vote of the Commissioners at any properly
convened meeting at which a quorum is present. The Commission shall have the
powers specified by the Kentucky Revised Statues and may employ such personnel
as may be reasonable necessary to accomplish the purposes of the Commission
consistent with the provisions of local ordinances.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 5-2-11)
§ 40.05 REQUEST FOR FUNDS.
   Pursuant to KRS 91A.390, the Commission shall annually submit to the City
Council a request for funds for the operations of the commission. To provide
funds for the operation of the Commission, there is imposed a transient room
tax of 1% percent on the rent of each occupancy of a suite, room or rooms,
charged by all persons, companies, corporations, or other like or similar
persons, groups or organizations during business as motor courts, motels,
hotels, ins, or like or similar accommodations businesses. The transient room
tax shall not apply to the rental or leasing of an apartment supplied by an
individual or business that regularly holds itself out as exclusively providing
apartments. Apartment means a room or set of rooms, fitted especially with a
kitchen and usually leased as a dwelling for a minimum period of 30 days or
more.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 5-2-11)
§ 40.06 TRANSIENT ROOM TAX.
   (A)   The transient room tax shall be collected by the operators of the
businesses described in §
40.05 and be paid over to the city and the said city is authorized to take all
appropriate actions to provide for the collection and enforcement of these
taxes. As required by KRS 91A.390(1), The proceeds of this tax shall be paid on
a monthly basis. Each collecting agent shall file a return in duplicate on a
form which is provided for such purpose. The failure to properly fill out and
return said reporting form and the taxes shall be subject to such civil and
criminal penalties as are available in the Kentucky Revised Statutes for
failure to make required disposition of property as provided by the Kentucky
Revised Statutes and this section. In addition, the failure to pay said taxes
within the required time set out above, a penalty of 6% shall be added to the
amount due.
   (B)   All tax monies received by the city from the collection of the 1%
transient room tax shall be immediately disbursed to the Tourism and Convention
Commission to be used for the purpose of promoting and developing convention
and tourist activities and facilities.
   (C)   All moneys collected from the transient room tax and any restaurant
tax which may be hereinafter imposed, shall be maintained in an account
separate and unique from all other funds and revenues collected and shall be
considered tax revenue for the purposes of KRS 68.100 and KRS 92.330.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 5-2-11)
§ 40.07 FINANCIAL RECORDS.
   The Treasurer and any other officer of the Commission writing checks and/or
handling funds shall be bonded in an amount commensurate with the largest
amount of money on hand in any given year. The Commission shall make an
itemized quarterly finance report to the City Council showing the expenses and
income for each month and shall further present copies of its annual budget to
said governmental entities.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 5-2-11)
§ 40.08 AUDITING.
   Pursuant to KRS 91A.360 (5), the books of the Commission and its account as
established pursuant to §
40.06(C) hereof shall be audited as provided in KRS 65A.030. The independent
certified public accountant or Auditor of Public Accounts shall make a report
to the Commission, to the associations submitting lists of names from which
Commission members are selected, to the City Mayor, to the State Auditor of
Public Accounts and to the City Council. A copy of the audit report shall be
made available by the Commission to members of the public upon request at no
charge.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 5-2-11)
§ 40.09 RESTAURANT TAX.
   (A)   For the purpose of funding the operation of the city Tourism and
Convention Commission so as to finance the cost of acquisition, construction
operation and maintenance of facilities useful in the attraction and promotion
of tourist and convention business, there is hereby imposed and levied a
special tax of 3% of the gross retail sales of restaurants doing business
within the city.
   (B)   On and after July 1, 2011, every person, company, corporation or other
like or similar persons, groups or organizations doing business as restaurants
which dispenses prepared food products located in the city shall pay monthly to
the City Treasurer a tax of 3% of the gross retail sales, which is defined to
mean gross sales excluding state sales tax, collected by them during the
preceding month. Such tax shall be due and payable to the city 30 days after
the last day of each month, together with a completed return on a form
furnished or obtained from the City Clerk, setting forth an aggregate amount of
gross sales charged, and collected during the period to which the tax applies,
together with such other pertinent information as the city may require.
Restaurants will begin collecting the tax on July 1, 2011 and make the first
payment before August 31, 2011.
   (C)   As used in this section, RESTAURANT means any fixed or mobile
commercial establishment that engages in the preparation and serving or
dispensing of ready-to-eat foods in portions to the customer, including, but
not Limited to: restaurants, coffee shops, cafeterias, short order cafes,
luncheonettes, grilles, tea rooms, sandwich shops, soda fountains, roadside
stands, street vendors, catering kitchens, delicatessens or similar places in
which food is prepared for sale for consumption on the premises or elsewhere.
It does not include schools, food vending machines, establishments serving
beverages only in single service or original containers.
   (D)   Temporary food stands, booths, street concessions and similar type
operations, whether operated by non-profit corporations or not, when food is
prepared and sold for immediate consumption, are not exempt from this tax.
   (E)   The tax imposed herein shall be in addition to all other general taxes
including the net profits tax and business permit fees payable to the city.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of the taxpayer to maintain books,
records, and papers in support of all amounts reported on the quarterly tax
return herein mandated. The city will be permitted to examine the books,
records and papers of the taxpayer upon notification in writing to the
taxpayer.
   (G)   The funds collected from the tax herein imposed shall be turned over
to the city Tourism and Convention Commission and used solely for the purpose
of promoting convention and tourist activity in the city as set out in KRS
91A.390 and shall be maintained in an account separate and unique from all
other funds and revenues collected, and shall be considered tax revenue for the
purposes of KRS 68.100 and KRS 92.330. The management of the funds shall be
subject to the requirements of the Ordinance establishing the city Tourism and
Convention Commission.
   (H)   There shall be no issuance of revenue bonds or the borrowing of money
beyond the fiscal year without the express approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-6-11; Am. Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-20-12; Am. Ord. 2017-
02, passed 2-6-17; Am. Ord. 2017-08, passed 6-27-17) Penalty, see §
40.99
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 40.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A city's necessary and reasonable costs for and associated
with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all or a
portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to a
structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (A)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with §
40.28(E);
      (B)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in §
40.27(F); or
      (C)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
40.28(C).
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.21 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created within the city, pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS
65.8839, a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of three members, all
of whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at least one year prior
to their appointment and shall reside there throughout the term in office.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.22 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.23 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the
executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of the legislative
body.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of one year;
      (2)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of two years; and
      (3)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of three years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (D)   The Mayor may appoint, subject to the approval of the City Council, at
least one alternate member to serve on the Code Enforcement Board in the
absence of regular members. The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council,
shall have the option to appoint up to two alternates to serve on the Code
Enforcement Board in the absence of regular members. An alternate member shall
meet all of the qualifications and shall be subject to all of the requirements
that apply to regular members of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (E)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the Mayor, subject to
approval of the City Council, within 60 days of the vacancy. If the vacancy is
not filled within that time period, the remaining Code Enforcement Board
members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
   (F)   A Board member may be removed from office by the Mayor for misconduct,
inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The Mayor shall submit a written
statement to the member and the City Council setting forth the reasons for
removal. The member so removed shall have the right of appeal to the local
Circuit Court.
   (G)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reimbursed for actual
expenses shown by proof and compensated in the amount of fifty dollars ($50)
per month. The chairman of the Board shall be compensated an additional fifty
dollars ($50) per month for their service as chair of the board.
   (I)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or
nonelected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21; Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed 1-17-23; Am. Ord. 2023-
02, passed 2-20-23)
§ 40.24 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a Chair from among its
members. The Chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of
the Board. In the absence of the Chair, the remaining members of the Board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
Chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held quarterly
and shall be held during the second Tuesdays of the months of March, June,
September and December at 5:00 p.m. Meetings other than those regularly
scheduled shall be special meetings or emergency meetings held in accordance
with the requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the Board's entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of
the Board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of any member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.25 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, shall disqualify himself or herself from voting on the
matter in which he or she has an interest, and shall not be counted for
purposes of establishing a quorum.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.26 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The City of Leitchfield Code Enforcement Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this subchapter;
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction;
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any Code
Enforcement Officer;
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The Chair shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony;
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce; and
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.27 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to § 40.35, if a
Code Enforcement Officer believes, based on his or her personal observation or
investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he or she shall
issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged violator a specified period of
time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If the alleged violator
fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified, the Code
Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued;
      (3)   Mailing a copy of the citation by regular first-class mail to the
last known recorded mailing address of the alleged violator; or
      (4)   If, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the issuance of a
citation using the methods set out in divisions (C)(1), (2), or (3) is not
possible, then the citation is properly served by posting a copy of the
citation in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable:
         (a)   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation; and
         (b)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects
to contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation; the determination that the violation
was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
each member of the Code Enforcement Board by electronic mail or U.S. mail first
class.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the
person fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation
as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was
committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested or personal
delivery.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.28 HEARING; NOTICE; FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; or personal delivery.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; or personal
delivery.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement
Officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it is determined that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is
determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued upholding the
citation. The Board may impose a fine up to the maximum authorized by
ordinance, or require the offender to remedy a continuing violation to avoid a
fine, or both.
   (F)   (1)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date
the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the person by regular first-
class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by
leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.29 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city, a Code Enforcement Officer for the city, or by a
member of the city's administrative staff. The City Attorney may either be
counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may present cases before the Code
Enforcement Board, but shall in no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.30 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board following a
hearing conducted pursuant to §
40.28(E) may be made to the Grayson County District Court within 30 days of the
date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a
complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner as any civil action
under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) above, the Code Enforcement Board's
order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.31 ORDINANCE FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the city Code Enforcement
Board shall be subject to the following schedule of civil fines:
   (A)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth in this division
shall apply:
 
Violation                       1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Animals                         $25         $50         $100
Building and Construction Code* $100        $125        $150
Garbage                         $10         $25         $50
Occupational license            $50         $75         $100
Weeds                           $10         $25         $50
*Including the International Property Maintenance Code)
 
   (B)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the following maximum penalties may be imposed at the
discretion of the Code Enforcement Board:
 
Violation                       1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Animals                         $100        $200        $300
Building and Construction Code* $500        $750        $1000
Garbage                         $75         $150        $250
Occupational license            $500        $750        $1000
Weeds                           $50         $75         $100
*Including the International Property Maintenance Code)
 
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.32 LIEN; FINES, CHARGES, AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a non-appealable final order as defined by §
40.20, or by a final judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of a
city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the
violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs. An affidavit of
the Code Enforcement Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
amount of the lien and regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years following the date
of the non-appealable final order or final court judgment.
   (C)   Subject to §
40.34, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) above, the person
found to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the
amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all charges, fees
and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of
the ordinance. The city may bring a civil action against the person and shall
have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.33 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in §
40.32, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the Code Enforcement Officer:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   A registrant may use the electronic form provided on the city website
to submit the information required by division (B). It shall be the
responsibility of the registrant to maintain and update the required contact
information with the city. The city shall inform a registrant of any evidence
received that the electronic mailing address is invalid or not functional so
that the registrant may provide an updated electronic mailing address.
   (D)   Once per month, the city shall send electronic mail notification of
all final orders entered pursuant to this subchapter since the last date of
notification to each party registered pursuant to this section. The
notification shall provide an electronic link to the city code enforcement
database located on the city website. The database shall include the following
information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred if, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, it is
ascertainable.;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this subchapter,
the city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   The city shall update its code enforcement database to reflect the
issued final order, and shall post this notification required by division (D)
above containing an updated link to the code enforcement database in a
conspicuous space on the city website, at the same time that it provides the
electronic notification.
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.34 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
40.33(B) may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of notification under §
40.33(D):
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
40.35.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
40.32 shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
40.33 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A) above.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) above shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except
liens for state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45 day period established in
division (A) above expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to the
expiration of the 45 day period, the city shall release the lien in the County
Clerk's office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §
40.33 and this section, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously
filed liens as provided in division (C) above, shall not limit or restrict any
other remedies the city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.35 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe
that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.36 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   Provisions of 2021 International Property Maintenance Code adopted by
reference.
      (1)   The City of Leitchfield, Kentucky, hereby adopts, enacts and
incorporates by reference, as if fully set forth herein, in their entirety, the
following sections of the 2021 International Property Maintenance Code (herein
after for purposes of this section referred to as “2021 Code”) as published by
the International Code Council, Inc., as same may be amended from time to time
hereafter:
         (a)   Section 101 Scope and General Requirements;
         (b)   Section 102 Applicability;
         (c)   Section 105 Duties and Powers of the Code Official;
         (d)   Section 106 Approval;
         (e)   Section 111 Unsafe Structures and Equipment;
         (f)   Section 112 Emergency Measures;
         (g)   Section 113 Demolition;
         (h)   Section 201 Definitions;
         (i)   Section 202 General Definitions;
         (j)   Section 301 General;
         (k)   Section 302 Exterior Property Areas;
         (l)   Section 303 Swimming Pools, Spas and Hot Tubs;
         (m)   Section 304 Exterior Structure;
         (n)   Section 305 Interior Structure;
         (o)   Section 306 Component Serviceability;
         (p)   Section 307 Handrails and Guardrails;
         (q)   Section 309 Pest Elimination;
         (r)   Section 401 General;
         (s)   Section 402 Light;
         (t)   Section 403 Ventilation;
         (u)   Section 404 Occupancy Limitations;
         (v)   Section 501 General;
         (w)   Section 502 Required Facilities;
         (x)   Section 503 Toilet Rooms;
         (y)   Section 504 Plumbing Systems and Fixtures;
         (z)   Section 505 Water System;
         (aa)   Section 506 Sanitary Drainage System;
         (bb)   Section 507 Storm Drainage;
         (cc)   Section 601 General;
         (dd)   Section 602 Heating Facilities;
         (ee)   Section 603 Mechanical Equipment;
         (ff)   Section 604 Electrical Facilities;
         (gg)   Section 605 Electrical Equipment;
         (hh)   Section 606 Elevators, Escalators and Dumbwaiters;
         (ii)   Section 607 Duct Systems;
         (jj)   Section 701 General;
         (kk)   Section 702 Means of Egress;
         (ll)   Section 703 Fire-Resistance Ratings;
         (mm)   Section 704 Fire Protection Systems;
         (nn)   Section 705 Carbon Monoxide Alarms and Detection; and
         (oo)   Appendix A Boarding Standard.
      (2)   Violations of the provisions of these sections above shall be
deemed a nuisance enforceable by any and all provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Revisions/additions to International Property Maintenance Code. The
following sections of the 2021 Code are hereby revised:
      (1)   The term “code official” as used in the 2021 Code shall be deemed
to be either the city Code Enforcement Officer, city Fire Marshal or their duly
authorized representatives, and all shall be charged with the administration
and enforcement of this code.
      (2)   In that there is a need to establish a period of time a vacant
problem structure may remain standing, Section 111 of the 2021 Code entitled
Unsafe Structures and Equipment, is amended to add the following:
         (i)   A vacant problem structure is defined as a vacant building or
other structure that poses a nuisance or danger to the public, police
department, or fire department and is usually identified by one or more of the
following characteristics: utility services disconnected, extensive broken
glass, peeling or flaking paint on exterior walls, lose or rotting material on
the roof or the exterior walls or the structure has been damaged due to theft,
fire damage, weather or neglect and the structure has not been secured from
entry.
         (ii)   When a vacant problem structure, not in danger or structural
collapse, has been closed by the property owner and the structure continues to
remain closed by approved methods, it may remain standing in a safe condition
for a period not to exceed one (1) year from the date of the fire or the date
of receipt of the notice of violation/citation from the code official, at which
time an application must have been made for a building permit to repair or for
a demolition permit.
         (iii)   Failure of the property owner to keep the structure closed or
to obtain the required permit in the specified time shall constitute permission
to a city official or designated employee or other authorized agent of the city
to enter upon the property to remedy the situation and to abate the nuisance by
demolition and removal of the dilapidated structure.
      (3)   The referenced standards listed in chapter eight of the 2021 Code
and used throughout the text are changed and shall be referred to as follows:
         (a)   ICC - International Code Council is changed to: KDHBC - Kentucky
Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction;
         (b)   International Building Code is changed to: Kentucky Building
Code, current edition, and includes, but is not limited to the Kentucky
Residential Code;
         (c)   International Fire Code is changed to: NFPA 1 Fire Prevention
Code, Current Edition, and/or Kentucky Fire Prevention Code, current edition;
         (d)   International Fuel Gas Code is changed to: Kentucky Fuel Gas
Code, current edition, and/or related Kentucky Revised Statutes or Kentucky
Administrative Regulations;
         (e)   International Mechanical Code is changed to: Kentucky Mechanical
Code, current edition;
         (f)   International Plumbing Code is changed to: Kentucky Plumbing
Code, current edition;
         (g)   ICC Electrical Code is changed to: City of Leitchfield
Electrical Ordinances, as amended from time to time; and
         (h)   International Zoning Code is changed to: City of Leitchfield
Planning and Zoning Regulations, as amended from time to time, and/or related
zoning Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (C)   Unsafe structure: imminent danger. When, in the opinion of the Code
Enforcement Officer, there is imminent danger of failure or collapse of a
building or structure which endangers life or when any structure or part of a
structure has fallen and life is endangered by the occupation of the structure,
or when there is actual or potential danger to the building occupants or those
in proximity of any structure because of explosive fumes or vapors or the
presence of toxic fumes, gases or materials, or operation of defective or
dangerous equipment, the Code Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized and
empowered to order and require occupants to vacate the premises forthwith. The
Code Enforcement Officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance a notice
reading as follows: "This Structure is Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been
Prohibited by the Code Enforcement Officer'’. It shall be unlawful for any
person to enter such structure except for the purpose of securing the
structure, making repairs, removing the hazardous condition or demolishing the
same.
   (D)   Temporary safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of this code,
whenever, in the opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer, there is imminent
danger due to an unsafe condition, the Code Enforcement Officer shall order the
necessary work to be done, including the boarding up of openings, to render
such structure temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein
described has been instituted; and shall cause such other action to be taken as
the Code Enforcement Officer deems necessary to meet such emergency.
   (E)   Closing streets. When necessary for public safety, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to temporarily close streets and
structures, or order the authority having jurisdiction to close, sidewalks,
streets, public ways and places adjacent to unsafe structures, and prohibit
same from being utilized.
   (F)   Emergency repairs. For purposes of this section, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the required
work as expeditiously as possible. Costs incurred in the performance of
emergency work shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
   (G)   Demolition. The Code Enforcement Officer shall order the owner of any
premises upon which is located any structure, which in the Officer’s judgment
is so old, dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to be dangerous,
unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or occupancy, and
such that it is unreasonable to repair the structure, to demolish and remove
the structure; or if such structure is capable of being made safe by repairs,
to repair and make safe and sanitary or to demolish and remove at the owner’s
option; or where there has been a cessation of normal construction of any
structure for a period of more than two years, to demolish and remove such
structure.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.37 JURISDICTION.
   The Code Enforcement Officer and Code Enforcement Board shall have
jurisdiction over and shall enforce this code and all other ordinances adopted
or amended which specifically provide for the enforcement by the Code
Enforcement Officers) or Board, in the matter set forth herein.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.38 VALIDITY OF EXISTING LIENS PREVIOUSLY FILED.
   The adoption of this subchapter by the Council of the City of Leitchfield
shall not constitute a release, satisfaction or discharge of any lien filed of
record in the office of the Grayson County Clerk which affects the rights,
title and interest of any parcel of real property cited for violation of the
Property Maintenance Code in effect prior to the effective date of this
subchapter; it being hereby declared and established that such liens created
hereunder shall remain in full force and effect until adjudicated or released.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 11-1-21)
§ 40.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any tax imposed by §
40.09 which shall remain unpaid after it becomes due, as set forth in §
40.09, shall have added to it a penalty of 10% plus interest at the rate of 12%
per annum against the total amount of tax overdue at any time.
   (B)   Any person who shall intentionally refuse to file a return, or who
shall knowingly file a false or fraudulent return required herein, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor subject to a fine of not more than $100 for each
violation, imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both. Any violation of
any Kentucky statute or city ordinance shall be subject to the penalties
prescribed by such statute or city ordinance.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 6-6-11; Am. Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-20-12; Am. Ord. 2017-
02, passed 2-6-17; Am. Ord. 2017-08, passed 6-27-17)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
         
51.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   City to provide solid waste pickup service
   
50.02   Rules and regulations for pickup from non-commercial properties
   
50.03   Rules and regulations for pickup from commercial properties
   
50.04   Deposits in streets to comply with regulations
   
50.05   Weekly pickup; additional service
   
50.06   Use of dumpsters; payment of charge required
   
50.07   Charges levied for solid waste pickup; disposition of funds
   
50.08   Schedule of rates and charges
   
50.09   Prohibited wastes
   
50.10   Landfills, disposal sites prohibited
Solid Waste Collection Franchise
   
50.20   Establishment
   
50.21   Definitions
   
50.22   Franchising
   
50.23   Solicitation of franchise proposals
   
50.24   Performance requirements for franchisee(s)
   
50.25   Non-industrial/industrial solid waste distinction
   
50.26   Acceptance of proposals
   
50.27   Disposal
   
50.28   Termination of the franchise
   
50.29   Notice
   
50.30   Assignment
   
50.31   Prohibition - private responsibility
   
50.32   Method of collecting charges
   
50.33   Right to require performance
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 CITY TO PROVIDE SOLID WASTE PICKUP SERVICE.
   The city shall provide pickup service for solid refuse, at the rate and
under the conditions hereinafter stated, to residents of the city and to those
residents in an area contiguous to the city who are presently being afforded
such pickup services.
(Ord. passed 12-19-88; Am. Ord. passed 9-21-92; Am. Ord. 97-15, passed 10-20-
97; Am. Ord. 2003-12, passed 11-3-03)
§ 50.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR PICKUP FROM NON-COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES.
   No solid waste pickup service shall be available to those non-commercial
persons otherwise entitled to pickup service who fail to comply with the
following regulations set forth in this section:
   (A)   Solid waste shall be placed adjacent to the closest street within
twenty-four (24) hours of the time of scheduled collection.
   (B)   All solid waste to be collected shall be placed in a container having
a capacity of not less than five (5) gallons nor more than thirty (30) gallons,
which container shall be of such design and functions so as to effectively and
securely confine its contents and prevent the diffusal of refuse, including,
but not limited to, metal and plastic containers and sealed bags.
   (C)   The city will pick up and dispose of solid waste consisting of yard
waste, brush and leaves generated in the city as well as cardboard. Provided,
however, the city shall not collect or dispose of large tree limbs or trees
which have not been reduced to a manageable size; provided further, the city
shall not collect any such refuse if in the opinion of the City Public Works
Director, or his or her designee, the city's equipment and/or personnel cannot
reasonably or safely collect and/or dispose of such refuse.
(Ord. passed 12-19-88; Am. Ord. passed 9-21-92; Am. Ord. 97-15, passed 10-20-
97; Am. Ord. 2003-12, passed 11-3-03; Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 7-21-14)
§ 50.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR PICKUP FROM COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES.
   No solid waste pickup service shall be available to those commercial persons
otherwise entitled to pickup service who fail to comply with the following
regulations set forth in this section:
   (A)   All solid waste materials shall be deposited in a container which by
design and function reasonably prevents noxious odors, leaking and diffusal of
contents, the sufficiency of which container shall be determined by the
municipal employee empowered to make such determination.
   (B)   No container in which solid waste has been deposited shall contain by
weight or by volume an amount in excess of that which is reasonably capable of
being readily and safely processed by the then existing city equipment, the
capability to be determined by the municipal employee empowered to make such
determination.
(Ord. passed 12-19-88; Am. Ord. passed 9-21-92; Am. Ord. 97-15, passed 10-20-
97; Am. Ord. 98-3, passed 3-2-98; Am. Ord. 2003-12, passed 11-3-03)
§ 50.04 DEPOSITS IN STREETS TO COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS.
   No solid waste of any kind shall be deposited in any street, alley, or
public way, except in the manner provided in §§
50.02 and
50.03.
(Ord. passed 12-19-88; Am. Ord. passed 9-21-92; Am. Ord. 97-15, passed 10-20-
97; Am. Ord. 2003-12, passed 11-3-03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 WEEKLY PICKUP; ADDITIONAL SERVICE.
   (A)   To the extent reasonably possible, solid waste pickup service shall be
afforded to commercial and non-commercial persons once weekly, provided,
however, that additional service shall be provided to commercial persons on a
more frequent basis when reasonably required to prevent a health hazard,
nuisance, or other undesirable condition. The determination regarding
additional service shall be made by the or employee empowered to make such
decisions.
   (B)   Solid waste pickup services provided to multi-family buildings, the
occupants of which generate refuse which primarily consists of solid waste from
personal, family, or household activities, shall be classified as non-
commercial users and shall be charged at the non-commercial rate. A monthly
charge shall be assessed for each dwelling unit for which solid waste pickup is
made regularly available.
   (C)   New construction of residential properties shall not be assessed a
solid waste service rate fee until the project is complete and the property is
occupied.
(Ord. passed 12-19-88; Am. Ord. passed 9-21-92; Am. Ord. 97-15, passed 10-20-
97; Am. Ord. 98-3, passed 3-2-98; Am. Ord. 2003-12, passed 11-3-03; Am. Ord.
2023-07, passed 4-3-23)
§ 50.06 USE OF DUMPSTERS; PAYMENT OF CHARGE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The deposit or removal of solid waste refuse into or from dumpsters or
other receptacles by persons or entities who have not paid the established
charge for such dumpster or receptacle owned by the city is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of division (A) shall be guilty of a
violation. The City of Leitchfield Code Enforcement Board or a court of
appropriate jurisdiction shall enforce civil compliance with this section.
(Ord. passed 4-4-88; Am. Ord. 2021-18, passed 11-15-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 CHARGES LEVIED FOR SOLID WASTE PICKUP; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   Those persons to whom pickup service of solid waste is made available shall
pay the charge therefor, as set forth in §
50.08, with, and in addition to, the billing for utilities, said charge to
cover the preceding month. The charges so collected hereunder shall be credited
to the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. passed 12-19-88; Am. Ord. passed 9-21-92; Am. Ord. 97-15, passed 10-20-
97; Am. Ord. 2003-12, passed 11-3-03)
§ 50.08 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rates chargeable for the pickup services shall be as follows:
   (A)   For non-commercial users, the rate for solid waste pickup which is
available shall be eighteen dollars and fifty cents ($18.50) per month for city
residents and twenty-three dollars and ten cents ($23.10) per month for non-
city residents. NON-COMMERCIAL USERS are defined as those whose refuse
primarily consists of solid waste generated by personal, family or household
activities. Provided however, for non-commercial users who meet the following
criteria the rate shall be thirteen dollars and seventy-five cents ($13.75) per
month, which criteria are as follows:
      (1)   The customer or the customer’s spouse must have attained the age of
sixty-five (65) years and reside within the city limits, and he or she must be
the owner or tenant of the premises from which solid waste is to be removed and
occupy the premises as the principal place of residence.
      (2)   The service must be billed in the name of the resident or his or
her spouse who has attained age sixty-five (65) years.
      (3)   The premises must be used only for residential purposes.
      (4)   In order to effectuate the reduced rate, application must be made
at City Hall along with proof of age.
   (B)   For users who operate small businesses at their principal place of
residence and whose refuse contains both non-commercial and commercial waste,
the rate for solid waste pickup shall be a minimum of thirty dollars and eighty
cents ($30.80) per month. Provided, however, should the volume generated by
such users exceed one (1) yard per week, the standard commercial rates as set
forth in division (C) below shall apply.
   (C)   Rates for commercial solid waste pickup service shall be as follows:
DUMPSTER RATES - PER CONTAINER PER MONTH
NUMBER OF PICKUPS PER WEEK
Dumpster Size 1 per week 2 per week 3 per week 4 per week 5 per week
DUMPSTER RATES - PER CONTAINER PER MONTH
NUMBER OF PICKUPS PER WEEK
Dumpster Size 1 per week 2 per week 3 per week 4 per week 5 per week
1 yard        $30.80
2 yards       $30.80     $62.70     $93.50     $124.30    $155.10
4 yards       $62.70     $124.30    $187.00    $248.60    $311.30
6 yards       $93.50     $187.00    $279.40    $372.90    $466.40
8 yards       $124.30    $248.60    $372.90    $497.20    $621.50
All dumpster containers shall be picked up at least once per week. Only
items in dumpsters with lids shut will be picked up. It is the
responsibility of the business owner to keep lids shut.
 
   (D)   For those commercial customers who request and receive regular solid
waste pickup services on week-ends, the following charges for such services
will be assessed, which charges are in addition to the regular monthly charges.
 
DUMPSTER SIZE ONE WEEKEND PICKUP TWO WEEKEND PICKUPS
2 yard        $46.20 per month   $93.50 per month
4 yards       $93.00 per month   $187.00 per month
6 yards       $139.70 per month  $279.40 per month
8 yards       $187.00 per month  $372.90 per month
All dumpster containers shall be picked up at least once per week. Only items
in dumpsters with lids shut will be picked up. It is the responsibility of
the business owner to keep lids shut.
 
 
DUMPSTER RENTAL RATES PER MONTH
1 yard container  $6.60 per month
2 yards container $14.30 per month
4 yards container $20.90 per month
6 yards container $27.50 per month
8 yards container $34.10 per month
 
 
NON-CONTAINERIZED RATES PER MONTH
NUMBER OF PICKUPS PER WEEK
Amount of waste  1 per week 2 per week 3 per week 4 per week 5 per week
1 yard or less   $30.80     $62.70     $93.50     $124.30    $155.10
1 to 1-1/2 yards $38.50     $78.10     $12.20     $155.10    $193.60
1-1/2 to 2 yards $47.30     $93.50     $139.70    $187.00    $233.20
 
   (E)   Businesses having more than two (2) yards per pickup shall use a
dumpster.
   (F)   Transfer station rate increases shall be equal to the percentage
increases of rates received from the provider of solid waste transport and
disposal facility. Residents of the city may deliver to the city operated
transfer station, at no additional charge, non-commercial solid waste generated
at their residence which consists of yard waste, cardboard and other acceptable
bulky items not normally collected at curb-side, does not include construction/
demolition debris and other restricted items not acceptable at the transfer
station. The City Public Works may restrict acceptable items at the transfer
station from time to time based on health, safety and any applicable state or
federal requirements of solid waste collection. The transfer station rate shall
apply to acceptable construction or demolition debris unless the customer has
been approved for a permit that provides for a different rate.
   (G)   The above revised rates were effective as of July 1, 2013. Thereafter,
all rates automatically increased ten percent (10%) per annum for each of the
next three fiscal years. Thereafter, the rates were adjusted in an amount equal
to the percentage of increase plus one-half of one percent, which the city
received from its then provider of solid waste transport and disposal facility.
The Solid Waste Committee of the City Council shall meet annually regarding
solid waste rates and have a recommendation for rates of the upcoming fiscal
year by the first regular meeting in April each and every year. The City
Council shall vote to accept or reject the recommendation by the second regular
meeting in May each and every year. If no decision regarding rates is made by
the time periods specified then the solid waste rates shall be in an amount
equal to the percentage of increase which the city receives from its provider
of solid waste transport plus one-half of one percent.
   (H)   (1)   The above schedule and rates described in division (B) shall be
temporarily reduced if a business conducted within an individual's home is
required to cease operation by federal or state authority due to a declaration
of emergency. In such an occasion an individual shall be charged by the rates
and schedule in division (A).
      (2)   The above schedule and rates described in divisions (C) and (D)
shall be temporarily waived if a commercial business is required to temporarily
cease operation by federal or state authority due to a declaration of an
emergency.
      (3)   If an individual or commercial business included in division (H)(1)
and (H)(2) has paid for solid waste disposal during a time period their
business was ordered to cease operations due to a declaration of an emergency,
that individual or business shall be reimbursed for the amount paid upon
written proof provided.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, an EMERGENCY can be defined as an
occasion of urgency and suddenness where something needs to be done at once.
      (5)   A state of emergency must be declared by the City of Leitchfield by
executive authority and legislative approval for the above cited change of
rates to apply.
   (I)   In addition to the above listed schedule and rates for solid waste
pick-up previously described there shall be an additional category for houses
used primarily for religious worship and small businesses that generate minimal
amounts of solid waste pick-up. The rate for users that meet the criteria shall
be thirty-two dollars and forty-one cents ($32.41) per month. The following
criteria must be met by the establishment to qualify under this category:
      (1)   The houses used primarily for religious worship or small business
must operate within Leitchfield City limits.
      (2)   The houses used primarily for religious worship or small business
must generate less than one-fifth (1/5) of one yard or thirty-four (34) gallons
of solid waste pick-up.
      (3)   In order to qualify under this category rate an application must be
completed and filed at Leitchfield City Hall.
(Ord. passed 12-19-88; Am. Ord. passed 9-21-92; Am. Ord. 95-4, dated 6-5-95;
Am. Ord. 97-15, passed 10-20-97; Am. Ord. 98-3, passed 3-2-98; Am. Ord. 2000-6,
passed 6-19-00; Am. Ord. 2003-12, passed 11- 3-03; Am. Ord. 2013-05, passed 6-
3-12; Am. Ord. 2020-06, passed 4-20- 20; Am. Ord. 2020-12, passed 7-6-20; Am.
Ord. 2023-06, passed 4-3-23; Am. Ord. 2024-28, passed 8-19-24)
§ 50.09 PROHIBITED WASTES.
   No person or entity shall be permitted to dispose of any solid waste which
now or in the future is such that the city is prohibited from accepting same by
federal or state statute or regulations or which cannot be disposed of at the
prevailing charge at the city's then existing disposal facility.
(Ord. passed 9-21-92; Am. Ord. 97-15, passed 10-20-97; Am. Ord. 2003-12, passed
11-3-03)
§ 50.10 LANDFILLS, DISPOSAL SITES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person or entity shall hereafter establish, construct,
or operate any type of solid waste landfill within the corporate limits of the
city, including, but not limited to, landfills designated as contained
landfills, construction/demolition debris landfills or residual landfills.
   (B)   Contained landfill. A solid waste landfill that accepts for disposal
one or more of the following:
      (1)   Non-hazardous solid waste including residential, commercial,
institutional, industrial and municipal waste;
      (2)   Shredded tires;
      (3)   Household hazardous waste;
      (4)   Limited quantity generator hazardous waste and/or non-hazardous
spill cleanup residue.
   (C)   Construction demolition debris landfill. A solid waste landfill that
accepts for disposal the solid waste that results from the construction,
remodeling, repair, and demolition of structures and roads and for the
disposal, including one or more of the following:
      (1)   Uncontaminated solid waste consisting of vegetation resulting from
land clearing and grubbing;
      (2)   Utility line maintenance; and
      (3)   Seasonal and storm-related cleanup.
Such waste includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Bricks;
      (2)   Shredded or segmented tires;
      (3)   Concrete and other masonry materials;
      (4)   Soil, rock, wood;
      (5)   Wall coverings, plaster, drywall, plumbing fixtures;
      (6)   Tree stumps, limbs, saw dust;
      (7)   Leaves, yard-waste;
      (8)   Paper, paper products, metals;
      (9)   Furniture;
      (10)   Insulation, roofing shingles;
      (11)   Asphalt pavement;
      (12)   Glass, plastics;
      (13)   Electrical wiring and components.
   (D)   Residual landfill. A solid waste landfill that accepts for disposal
industrial wastes or residues along with sludge and special wastes.
   (E)   Transfer stations. A transfer station operating under a permit issued
by the Kentucky Division of Waste Management shall not be prohibited under the
terms of this section.
   (F)   Relief. The city may bring an action in the Grayson Circuit Court for
injunctive relief against any person or entity violating or threatening to
violate this section.
   (G)   Violations. Violation of this section shall constitute a Class B
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 97-4, passed 5-5-97)
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION FRANCHISE
§ 50.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a non-exclusive franchise for the collection and
disposal of solid waste in the city upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-18-02)
Cross reference:
   Franchises granted, see Table of Special Ordinances,
Table VI
§ 50.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following words and phrases shall
have the following meanings ascribed to them:
   CITY. The City of Leitchfield, Kentucky.
   FRANCHISEE. Any firm, company or individual to which a franchise is awarded.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. All other customers that are not residential
customers.
   PREMISES. Land, building or other structures, vehicles, watercraft or parts
thereof upon or in which refuses is stored.
   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Those places used by persons as their place of
residence, including private residences, apartment buildings and mobile homes
and including mobile home located within a mobile home park.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage refuse, sludge or other discarded material,
including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous materials resulting
from industrial, commercial, health-care or agricultural operation and from
community activities and specifically including but not limited to the
following sub-categories:
      (1)   HOUSEHOLD SOLID WASTE. Solid waste, including garbage and trash
generated by single and multiple family residences.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. All types of solid waste generated by
stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses, hotels, motels, recreational areas
and other service and non-manufacturing activities.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by any type of
manufacturing or industrial processes, health-care facilities and/or any solid
waste deposited in a self-contained compacting unit or roll-off container.
   SOLID WASTE does not include the following:
      (1)   Those materials including but not limited to sand, soil, rock,
gravel or bridge debris extracted as part of a public road construction
project;
      (2)   Recovered material;
      (3)   Solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage, manure, crops, crop
residue or a combination thereof which are placed on the soil for return to the
soil as fertilizers or soil conditioners;
      (4)   Solid or dissolved material in irrigation return flows or
industrial discharges which are point sources subject to permits of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-18-02)
§ 50.22 FRANCHISING.
   (A)   As authorized by Sections 163 and 164 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and KRS 82.082 as well as judicial interpretation of
same, franchise rights may be issued by the city for the collection and/or
disposal of solid waste in the corporate limits of the city; such franchise
right or rights shall be issued pursuant to this subchapter at such times that
are deemed necessary by the city and may be for such term, terms or optional
periods fixed by the city, not to exceed twenty (20) years.
   (B)   Any non-governmental firm or individual that collects and/or disposes
of industrial solid waste in the city shall be required to obtain a franchise
from the city and shall comply with all terms and conditions of the franchise.
In addition, any firm or individual that collects and/or disposes of such solid
waste in the city shall obtain a city business license and no such license
shall be issued without a franchise agreement.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-18-02)
§ 50.23 SOLICITATION OF FRANCHISE PROPOSALS.
   In order for such franchise to issue, the city shall cause to be advertised,
as provided by law, solicitations for proposals. The city may accept additional
proposals subsequent to the initial solicitation and any such subsequent
proposals must meet with each and every one of the specified requirements of
the franchise.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-18-02)
§ 50.24 PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR FRANCHISEE(S).
   (A)   Liability insurance written by a good and solvent insurance carrier
shall at all times be provided by the franchisee for the protection of the city
and city officials, and to warrant the repair of any city infrastructure
damaged by the franchisee in the performance of the franchise rights.
   (B)   The conditions and coverages for said liability insurance shall be as
required by the solicitation for proposals.
   (C)   In the event any franchisee is unable for any cause to maintain
performance of the franchise in the judgment of the city or fails to make
necessary repairs to city infrastructure damaged by the franchisee or in any
other manner fails to meet its obligations, the city shall have the right to
terminate the franchise. However, such action shall not release the franchisee
from its liability to the city for breach of the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-18-02)
§ 50.25 NON-INDUSTRIAL/INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE DISTINCTION.
   The city shall expressly reserve the right to distinguish between household
solid waste, commercial solid waste and/or industrial solid waste and to award
a franchise for the collection and disposal of industrial solid waste and may
accept separate proposals.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-18-02)
§ 50.26 ACCEPTANCE OF PROPOSALS.
   The city shall expressly reserve the right to reject any and all proposals,
to accept any proposal in whole or in part, to waive any informalities and to
accept the proposal or proposals that appear to be most advantageous and in the
best interest of the citizens of the city .
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-18-02)
§ 50.27 DISPOSAL.
   The successful franchisee shall dispose of all solid waste in a manner which
complies with federal, state and local laws and regulations.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-18-02)
§ 50.28 TERMINATION OF THE FRANCHISE.
   The city may, at its discretion at any time during the term of the
franchise, review the operation and charges of any solid waste collection and
disposal services and may at its discretion terminate any franchise herein
granted upon thirty (30) days notice for violation of the terms of the
franchise agreement.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-18-02)
§ 50.29 NOTICE.
   A letter addressed and sent by first class United States mail to any
entity's business address shall be sufficient notice whenever required for any
purpose in relation to the franchise.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-18-02)
§ 50.30 ASSIGNMENT.
   No franchise granted pursuant hereto shall be assigned or sublet in total or
in part without the prior written consent of the city.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-18-02)
§ 50.31 PROHIBITION-PRIVATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The franchisee shall be responsible for the sanitary condition of the
premises occupied or used by him and the franchisee shall not place, deposit or
allow to be placed or deposited on his premises any waste, except as designated
by the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-18-02)
§ 50.32 METHOD OF COLLECTING CHARGES.
   The charges for collection and disposal services shall be the same for each
user receiving a similar service and the responsibility for the collection of
such charge shall be that of the franchise holder who shall assume the sole
responsibility therefore without right of indemnification from the city, which
city is free of any obligation in relation thereto.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-18-02)
§ 50.33 RIGHT TO REQUIRE PERFORMANCE.
   The failure of the city at any time to require performance by any franchisee
under the provision of the franchise shall in no way affect the right of the
said city thereafter to enforce same. Nor shall waiver by the said city of any
breach of any provisions hereof constitute a waiver of any succeeding breach of
the provision or as a waiver of any provision itself.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-18-02)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any non-government firm or individual that collects and/or disposes of
commercial and/or industrial solid waste following the advertisement for
proposals by the city shall upon conviction be guilty of a violation and shall
be fined twenty-five dollars ($25) for each day that the violation occurs.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-18-02)
CHAPTER 51: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
51.01   Opening permit required
   
51.02   Application and cash deposit
   
51.03   Restoration of pavement
   
51.04   Barriers around excavations
   
51.05   Warning lights
   
51.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
51.15   Public meeting required
   
51.16   Notice requirements
   
51.17   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
51.18   Meeting to be held prior to construction
   
51.19   Separate meeting for each project not required
   
51.20   Exemptions from meeting requirement
Obstructions
   
51.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
51.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
51.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
51.33   Removal of ice and snow
State or Federal Maintained Roads
   
51.45   Maintenance agreements
Encroachments
   
51.55   Definitions
   
51.56   Encroachment permit required
   
51.57   Application; duties of Director
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Construction of city streets, see §§
150.20 through
150.26
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 51.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the legislative body, giving the exact location of the
proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and
such other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after
a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with
the authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory
refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 51.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
51.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk/Treasurer or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 51.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the legislative body for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the legislative body shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall for the faithful performance of the work. The Mayor, if authorized by
City Council, may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 51.15 PUBLIC MEETING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
moneys for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 51.16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 51.17 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   At the meeting, the city shall allow any person to speak with regard
to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be built or
done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and
any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(1), (2))
§ 51.18 MEETING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project in which
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 51.19 SEPARATE MEETING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
if all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the meeting,
shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 51.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM MEETING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused disasters
nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 51.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
51.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 51.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, a
reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after the abatement
of any storm during which the snow and ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
51.99
STATE OR FEDERAL MAINTAINED ROADS
§ 51.45 MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the Commissioner of Highways of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
by appropriate authority of the Kentucky Revised Statutes, designates any
streets or portions thereof, including viaducts and bridges, as connecting
links of state or federal maintained highways, or necessary feeder streets
thereto, and thereby undertakes the future maintenance, repairs, construction
or reconstruction of such streets, bridges, viaducts in the manner provided by
the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the Mayor of the city is expressly authorized,
instructed and directed to enter into any and all contracts and agreements with
the Department of Highways necessary to carry out the purposes and provisions
of the statutes.
   (B)   Should the Department of Highways construct or reconstruct any streets
in the city, such work shall be done by the Department as the agent of the
city.
(Ord. passed - - )
ENCROACHMENTS
§ 51.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual; partnership; corporation; or any other entity,
including, but not limited to municipal corporations or agencies thereof.
   PUBLIC WAYS. Streets, alleys, dedicated rights-of-way to the public
prescriptive rights easements of public or private utilities, and any other
interest in real property less than fee simple, owned or possessed by, whether
by express or implied grant or operation of law, the city or any private
utility franchised by the city to provide services within the city or any part
thereof.
(Ord. passed 5-1-78)
§ 51.56 ENCROACHMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to excavate, dig, disturb, drill, or in
any manner encroach on, in or upon a public way within the corporate limits of
the city without first obtaining a permit therefor from the Public Works
Director and the Superintendent of Utilities.
(Ord. passed 5-1-78) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.57 APPLICATION; DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   Each application shall contain the names of the applicant and the owner of
the real property involved, the location of the proposed encroachment relative
to streets and alleys, and the depth of any encroachment and its purpose. Upon
receiving such an application, the Public Works Director and the Superintendent
of Utilities shall examine the same for its effect upon public ways and shall
issue a permit only upon a showing that no damage shall result from the
encroachment; provided, however, that public ways not owned or possessed by the
city be filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Ord. passed 5-1-78) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
TITLE VI: UTILITIES SYSTEM
      Chapter
         
60.   GAS
         
61.   SEWERS
         
62.   WATER
         
63.   UTILITIES
CHAPTER 60: GAS
Section
   
60.01   Monthly natural gas rates
   
60.02   Increases in purchase price of natural gas to be borne by customer
   
60.03   Gas service connection charge
   
60.04   Billings; penalties for late payment
   
60.05   Rates and charges applicable to all customers
§ 60.01 MONTHLY NATURAL GAS RATES.
   Rates and charges for the services and facilities furnished by the gas
portion of the utilities system shall be set by the Utilities Commission in
conformity with §
63.19.
(Ord. passed 9-17-79; Am. Ord. 2005-2, passed 2-7-05)
§ 60.02 INCREASES IN PURCHASE PRICE OF NATURAL GAS TO BE BORNE BY CUSTOMER.
   Increases in the city's cost of natural gas purchased from the city's gas
supplier shall be automatically added to the monthly charge for gas service set
forth above without further action by the City Council.
(Ord. passed 9-17-79; Am. Ord. 2005-2, passed 2-7-05)
§ 60.03 GAS SERVICE CONNECTION CHARGE.
   A connection and installation charge of $150 for residential gas service is
hereby established for each connection to the gas system. The connection and
installation charge for industrial and commercial service shall be the cost of
the installation plus 10% of the installation cost.
(Ord. passed 9-17-79)
§ 60.04 BILLINGS; PENALTIES FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   Whenever rates and charges remain unpaid for 15 days after the same
shall become due and payable, the property and the owner thereof as well as the
user of the services and facilities, shall be delinquent until such time as all
such rates and charges are fully paid. The city shall have the right to shut
off and discontinue utility service to all delinquent customers whose bills
remain unpaid 15 days after the due date, and the city shall have the right not
to restore service to any delinquent customer until all delinquent charges,
including penalty charges as set by the Utilities Commission, plus a
disconnection and reconnection charge, as set by the Utilities Commission, for
each meter have been paid in full.
   (B)   All bills shall be rendered at least monthly as determined by the
Utilities Commission and shall be due as determined by the Utilities Commission
and mailed to the address on file. The Utilities Commission shall set a penalty
amount for late payment.
   (C)   If the customer is not the property owner but instead is renting or
leasing the premises to which city utilities are provided, then the city's
normal and customary late notice/cutoff notice shall be sent to the customer as
well as the property owner at the address on file with the city. The property
owner shall have the right and authority to cause the city to shut off and
disconnect the city provided utilities service after the date of the late
notice/cutoff notice without obtaining the approval of the customer. Provided,
however, the failure of the city to terminate utility service as ordered by the
property owner shall not relieve the property owner from liability for the
accrued delinquent utility charges as provided in this code.
(Ord. passed 9-17-79; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-82; Am. Ord. 2005-2, passed 2-7-05;
Am. Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-3-06)
§ 60.05 RATES AND CHARGES APPLICABLE TO ALL CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   The rates and charges for the services provided by the system shall
apply to all residential, commercial and other establishments in any manner
directly or indirectly connected with the utilities system of the city.
   (B)   The rates and charges herein set out shall be billed to the party
making application for such services. The City Utilities Commission may require
such security of indemnity deposits for service as it deems appropriate.
   (C)   No free service shall be allowed or permitted from the utilities
system and no permanent connections shall be permitted or made except on a
metered basis.
(Ord. passed 9-17-79)
CHAPTER 61: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
61.001   Purpose; policy
   
61.002   Definitions
   
61.003   Falsifying information
   
61.004   Deposit of objectionable waste prohibited
   
61.005   Discharge of untreated sewage into natural outlet
   
61.006   Privies, septic tanks and other facilities
   
61.007   Owner's responsibility to install suitable toilet facilities
Private Sewage Disposal Systems
   
61.020   Private system required
   
61.021   Construction permit
   
61.022   Design requirements
   
61.023   Operating permit
   
61.024   Connection to city's system when available
   
61.025   Sanitary operation required
   
61.026   Further requirements
   
61.027   Exclusions
Building Sewers and Connections
   
61.035   Connection permit required
   
61.036   Building sewer permits
   
61.037   Costs and expenses of installation and connection of building sewer;
indemnification
   
61.038   Separate building sewer provided for every building
   
61.039   Use of old building sewers with new buildings
   
61.040   Size, slope, alignment, materials and methods of excavation to conform
to specifications
   
61.041   Sources of surface runoff or groundwater
   
61.042   Specifications for connection to public sewer
   
61.043   Inspection of connection to public sewer
   
61.044   Excavations to be guarded
Use of Public Sewers
   
61.055   Discharge of stormwater and other unpolluted drainage
   
61.056   Prohibited discharges to public sewers
   
61.057   Specific pollutant limitations
   
61.058   Dilution of wastewater discharge
   
61.059   Protection from accidental discharge
   
61.060   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
   
61.061   Pretreatment; equalization of waste flows
   
61.062   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
61.063   Preliminary treatment facilities
   
61.064   Control manhole; measurements, tests and analyses
   
61.065   State requirements
   
61.066   City's right of revision
   
61.067   Industrial wastes; special agreements
   
61.068   Users to notify control authority of violations
Pretreatment Program Permit Administration
   
61.080   Permit to discharge wastes required
   
61.081   Wastewater contribution permits; application
   
61.082   Permit modifications
   
61.083   Permit conditions
   
61.084   Permit duration
   
61.085   Permit transfer
   
61.086   Compliance data reporting
   
61.087   Periodic compliance reports
   
61.088   Monitoring facilities
   
61.089   Inspection and sampling
   
61.090   Pretreatment
   
61.091   Confidential information
   
61.092   Hazardous wastes
Fees
   
61.105   Purpose
   
61.106   Charges and Fees
Construction
   
61.115   Sewer construction permit required
   
61.116   Application
   
61.117   Construction standards
   
61.118   Inspection
   
61.119   Approval and acceptance; connection to city system
Rates and Charges
   
61.130   Monthly sewer rates
   
61.131   Monthly sewer user charge
   
61.132   Sewer connection charge
   
61.133   Billings; penalties for late payment
   
61.134   Rates and charges applicable to all customers
Violations; Remedies
   
61.145   Harmful contributions; suspension of utility service
   
61.146   Revocation of permit
   
61.147   Notification of violation
   
61.148   Show cause hearing
   
61.149   Compliance schedule
   
61.150   Compliance orders
   
61.151   User liability
   
61.152   Legal action
 
   
61.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 61.001 PURPOSE; POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the city
and enables the Leitchfield Publicly-Owned Treatment Works to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and
its subsequent revisions and the general Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR, Part
403) by KRS 224, Chapter 5, Title 401 and other state and federal regulations.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system;
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting, and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   The chapter shall apply to the city and to all persons, firms,
corporations and organizations therein now or in the future, and to persons
outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the Utilities
Commission, users of the POTW. Except as otherwise provided herein, the
Superintendent of the Utilities Commission shall administer, implement and
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -91)
§ 61.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director in an NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program and the Administrator of the EPA in a non-NPDES state or
NPDES state without an approved state pretreatment program.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   A responsible corporate officer means:
         (a)   A president, secretary, treasurer or vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function or any person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or have gross annual sales
or expenditures exceeding $25 million (in second quarter 1980 dollars);
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor if the user submitting reports is a
partnership or sole proprietorship respectively;
      (3)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated in
divisions (1) or (2) above if:
         (a)   The authorization is made in writing by the individual described
in divisions (1) or (2) above;
         (b)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having responsibility for the overall operation of the facility from which the
discharge originates, such as the position of plant manager, operator of a
well, or well field superintendent, or a position of equivalent responsibility,
or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company; and
         (c)   The written authorization is submitted to the Superintendent.
      (4)   If an authorization is no longer accurate because a different
individual or position has responsibility for the overall operation of the
facility, or overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company,
a new authorization satisfying the requirements of division (3) above must be
submitted to the Superintendent prior to or with any reports to be signed by an
authorized representative.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter in domestic, commercial or industrial
wastewaters as represented by the oxygen utilized over a five-day period
expressed in terms of weight and concentration [milligrams per liter (mg/l)],
as determined by one of the appropriate procedures stipulated in 40 CFR 136.
   BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to
the POTW.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standard.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The chemical oxygen demand of wastewater due to the
oxygen-reducing constituents of the wastewater as determined by 40 CFR 136
approved test methods.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria; plus any additional pollutants identified in the
publicly-owned treatment work's KPDES permit, where the publicly-owned
treatment work is designed to treat such pollutants and, in fact, does treat
such pollutants to the degree required by the POTW's KPDES permit.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A single sample made by combining individual wastewater
samples taken at selected intervals. The sample interval may be controlled by
timer or flow proportional measuring system.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. Refers to the Superintendent as defined herein.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the state.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the Administrator or other duly authorized official of the agency.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. All pollutants other than compatible pollutants as
defined in this section.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from any source regulated under Section 307(b) or (c) of the Act,
(33, U.S.C. 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharge into
the system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge which constitutes a
discharge of pollutants which are capable of causing violation of the POTW's
discharge limits, receiving stream quality standards, or restricting sludge
disposal methods.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes
or operations or which contributes to a violation of any requirement of the
POTW's KPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use of
disposal by the POTW in accordance with Section 405 of the Act, (33 U.S.C.
1345) or any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the
Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any
State Sludge Management Plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable
to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   KPDES PERMIT. A permit issued to the POTW pursuant to the Kentucky Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1347) which
applies to a specific category of industrial users.
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Any regulation developed under the authority of 307B of the Act and 40 CFR,
Section 403.5.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307(c)
of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located; or
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of (1)(a), or (1)(b) of this definition but otherwise alters, replaces or adds
to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a new source as defined under this division (3) has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment;
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this division (3).
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the
Commonwealth in quantities or concentration which alone or in conjunction with
a discharge or discharges from other sources is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the POTW KPDES discharge permit and/or 401 KAR Chapter 5:031
(including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation).
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   POLLUTION. The man-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical,
biological and radiological integrity of water.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to discharge to a POTW.
The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological
processes, or process changes by other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR
Section 403.6(d).
   PRETREATMENT COORDINATOR. The Pretreatment Coordinator of the Utilities
Commission of Leitchfield or his duly authorized representative.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substance or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a National Pretreatment Standard imposed on an
industrial user.
   PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by
Section 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. 1292) which is owned in this instance by the
Leitchfield Utilities Commission. This definition includes any sewers that
convey wastewater to the POTW treatment plant, but does not include pipes,
sewers or other conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment.
For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any sewers that
convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the city who are, by
contract or agreement with the Utilities Commission, users of the city POTW.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Any discharger subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
      (2)   Any other discharger which discharges an average of 25,000 gallons
or more per day of process water (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and
boiler blow down wastewater) to the POTW, or that contributes a process waste
stream which makes up 5% or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or
organic capacity of the POTW; or
      (3)   Any discharger that is designated as such by the Control Authority
on the basis that the discharger has a discharge capable of adversely affecting
the POTW's operation or for violating a pretreatment standard or requirement.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
      (1)   Wastewater violations.
         (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here
as those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter taken during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits as
defined in §
61.002.
         (b)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as
those in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as
defined by §
61.002 multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit that the
Control Authority believes has caused, alone or in combination with other
discharges, interference (for example, slug loads) or pass-through; or has
endangered the health of the POTW personnel or the public.
         (d)   Any discharge causing imminent endangerment of human health/
welfare or the environment or resulting in the POTW's use of its emergency
authority to halt or prevent such a discharge.
      (2)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, failure to comply
with schedule milestones for starting or completing construction, or attaining
final compliance by 90 days or more after the schedule date.
      (3)   Failure to provide required reports within 30 days of the due date.
      (4)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
      (5)   Any other violation or group of violations which the Control
Authority considers to be significant.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, domestic wastewater or commercial or
industrial wastewater which exceeds in concentration of any given constituent
or in quantity of flow exceeding for any period of duration longer than 15
minutes and/or is more than five times the previous annual average 24-hour
concentration of flows during normal operation.
   SPILL PREVENTION CONTROL PLAN or SPCP. A spill prevention and spill control
plan whose development, use, and revision may be required of all sewer system
users, as provided by 40 CFR 403.8(f).
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the Utilities Commission to
supervise the operation of the publicly-owned treatment works and who is
charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or his duly
authorized representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency under the provisions of CWA 307(a) or other Acts.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the city POTW.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted
to enter the POTW.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water courses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT. As set forth in §
61.081 of this chapter.
   (B)   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings.
   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
   CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
   l. Liter.
   KPDES. Kentucky Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   mg. Milligrams.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   POTW. Publicly-owned treatment works.
   SIC. Standard Industrial Classification.
   SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901, et seq.
   USC. United States Code.
   TSS. Total Suspended Solids.
(Ord. passed - -91; Am. Ord. 2012-02, passed 2-20-12)
§ 61.003 FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
   No industrial user shall knowingly make any false statements,
representations or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or
other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or
wastewater permit, or falsify, tamper with, or knowingly render inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.004 DEPOSIT OF OBJECTIONABLE WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, or permit to be placed in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the city, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or
other objectionable waste.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.005 DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE INTO NATURAL OUTLET.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted
waters except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.006 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS AND OTHER FACILITIES.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.007 OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY TO INSTALL SUITABLE TOILET FACILITIES.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and
abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city,
is hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is available at the
owner's property line.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 61.020 PRIVATE SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   All houses, buildings, or properties that are required by other authority to
have sanitary or industrial wastewater facilities, are subject to the
jurisdiction of this subchapter and are located where a proper wastewater sewer
is not available as specified by the provisions of §
61.007 of this chapter, shall be equipped at the owner's expense with suitable
wastewater facilities connected to a private wastewater disposal system, which
complies with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 5-4-98) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.021 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   Before beginning construction of a private wastewater disposal system
required under §
61.020 above, the owner shall first obtain a written construction permit signed
by the County Sanitarian for the Grayson County Health Department. The
application for such permit shall be made to the Grayson County Health
Department, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications,
and other information relevant to wastewater discharges as are deemed necessary
by the Grayson County Health Department.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 5-4-98) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.022 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all requirements of the Grayson County Health
Department or applicable federal law. No permit shall be issued for any private
wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil disposal facilities unless
it complies fully with the requirements of the Grayson County Health
Department. Septic tank or cesspool discharges require the use of subsurface
disposal. This requirement excludes deep well disposal as defined by state and
federal laws.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 5-4-98) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.023 OPERATING PERMIT.
   Before beginning of operation of a private wastewater disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written operating permit signed by the Grayson
County Health Department. The operating permit shall not become effective until
the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Grayson County Health
Department. The Grayson County Health Department shall be allowed to inspect
the work at any stage of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the
operating permit shall notify the Grayson County Health Department when the
work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are
covered.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 5-4-98) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.024 CONNECTION TO CITY'S SYSTEM WHEN AVAILABLE.
   At such time as a wastewater sewer becomes available, as defined in §
61.007 to a property served by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct
connection shall be made to the wastewater sewer within ninety (90) days, and
any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar wastewater disposal facilities shall
be emptied as prescribed by local regulations and filled with suitable
material.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 5-4-98) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.025 SANITARY OPERATION REQUIRED.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times in accordance with the conditions
of the operating permit and at no expense to the city. Such facilities shall be
subject to inspection by the Grayson County Health Department at reasonable
times.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 5-4-98) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.026 FURTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere with any
additional requirements that may be imposed by the Grayson County Health
Department, or other applicable authority.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 5-4-98)
§ 61.027 EXCLUSIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any private system that discharges to
wastewater facilities of the city or that discharges directly to a natural
outlet by authority of a separate NPDES permit and in compliance with
applicable state and federal laws.
(Ord. 98-5, passed 5-4-98)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 61.035 CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.036 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential and
commercial service; and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the Superintendent. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or any other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of
$10 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit shall be paid to the
Utilities Commission at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. passed - -91)
§ 61.037 COSTS AND EXPENSES OF INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION OF BUILDING SEWER;
INDEMNIFICATION.
   All costs and expenses incident of the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
and Utilities Commission from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. passed - -91)
§ 61.038 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER PROVIDED FOR EVERY BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.039 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS WITH NEW BUILDINGS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination by the Superintendent, to meet all requirements
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.040 SIZE, SLOPE, ALIGNMENT, MATERIALS AND METHODS OF EXCAVATION TO CONFORM
TO SPECIFICATIONS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of pipe, jointing, testing,
and backfilling of the trench, shall conform to appropriate specifications of
the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.041 SOURCES OF SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUNDWATER.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.042 SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall
be made gastight and watertight. There shall be no connection of the building
sewer into the public sewer from the following locations:
      (1)   Basements below ground level;
      (2)   Building floors below ground level; or
      (3)   An elevation below the connection point to the city sewer system.
   (B)   Any deviation from prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   (C)   There shall be no liability whatsoever to the city, regardless of
negligence on behalf of the city or its employees, if this section is not
completely complied with by the user.
(Ord. passed - -91; Am. Ord. 2004-02, passed 2-16-04; Am. Ord. 2012-02, passed
2-20-12) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.043 INSPECTION OF CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent
or his representative.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.044 EXCAVATIONS TO BE GUARDED.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Superintendent.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 61.055 DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, or subsurface drainage to any sanitary
sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.056 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly,
any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation or
performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all such users of
a POTW whether or not the user is subject to National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or any other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or
requirements. A user may not contribute the following substances to any POTW:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall two successive readings
on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at
any point in the system), be more than 5%, nor any single reading over 10% of
the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter.
Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene,
naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes,
peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides
and any other substances which the Control Authority, the state or EPA has
notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the system. The discharge of
waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140° F. or 60° C. using
the test method specified in 40 CFR 261.21, is prohibited.
   (B)   Solids or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to: grease, garbage with particles greater
than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension, animal internal organs, paunch
manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshing, entrails, whole blood, glass, straw,
shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood,
plastics, gas, tar asphalt residues, residues for refining or processing of
fuel, lubricating oil, mud, glass grinding, polishing wastes or paper products
such as cups, dishes, napkins, milk containers.
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or higher than 9.0, unless
the POTW was specifically designed to accommodate such wastewater, or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to
structures, equipment and/or personnel of the POTW.
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases
in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants,
to injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of
the POTW, or to exceed the limitation set forth in a Categorical Pretreatment
Standard. A toxic pollutant shall include, but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act.
   (E)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair.
   (F)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other product
of the POTW, such as residues, sludges or scum, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the
POTW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or
disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under Section 405 of the
Act, the Toxic Substance Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the
sludge management method being used.
   (G)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its KPDES and/or
State Solid Waste Disposal System Permit or the receiving water quality
standards as defined by 401 KAR Chapter 5, Section 031.
   (H)   Any wastewater with objectionable color, as defined by the Approval
Authority, not removed in the treatment process, such as, but not limited to
dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions.
   (I)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, including but
not limited to discharges that cause the temperature at the introduction into
the POTW to exceed 40° C. (104° F.).
   (J)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, and the
like) released at a flow and/or pollutant concentration which a user knows or
has reason to know will cause interference to the POTW. In no case shall a slug
load have a flow rate or contain concentration or qualities of pollutant that
exceed, for any time period longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the
average 24-hour concentration, quantities or flow during normal operation.
   (K)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such
half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Control
Authority in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
   (L)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a public
nuisance.
   (M)   Any water containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether emulsified or
not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or
become viscous at temperatures between 32° F. and 150° F. The discharge of
petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral oil, or
products of mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass-
through is prohibited.
   (N)   Except where expressly authorized to do so by an applicable
pretreatment standard or requirement, no industrial user shall ever increase
the use of process water, or in any other way attempt to dilute a discharge as
a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment or to achieve
compliance with a pretreatment standard or requirement. The Control Authority
may impose mass limitations on industrial users which are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases where
the imposition of mass limits is appropriate. When the Superintendent
determines that a user(s) is contributing to the POTW any of the above
enumerated substances in such amounts as to interfere with the operation of the
POTW, the Superintendent shall:
      (1)   Advise the user(s) of the impact of the contribution on the POTW;
      (2)   Develop effluent limitation(s) for such user to correct the
interference with the POTW.
   (O)   Trucked or hauled pollutants.
      (1)   The Superintendent may require haulers of industrial waste to
obtain individual wastewater discharge permits. The Superintendent requires
generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain individual wastewater discharge
permits. The Superintendent also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial
waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at the POTW main
lift during the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. Monday - Friday. No load may
be discharged without prior consent of the Superintendent. The Superintendent
may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable
standards. The Superintendent may require the industrial waste generator to
provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
      (3)   Hauled waste will only be accepted from permitted nonresidential
users regulated under the city's pretreatment program.
(Ord. passed - -91; Am. Ord. 98-5, passed 5-4-98; Am. Ord. 2012-02, passed 2-
20-12) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.057 SPECIFIC POLLUTANT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The following pollutant limits are established to protect against
pass-through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater containing
in excess of the following (instantaneous maximum allowable discharge limits):
 
Substance          Amount
   Ammonia (N)  941.0 mg/l
   Arsenic      0.82 mg/l
   BOD          400.0 mg/l
   Cadmium      0.006 mg/l
   Chromium (VI)0.50 mg/l
   Chromium, Tot1.10 mg/l
 
Substance Amount
Substance         Amount
   Copper      0.33 mg/l
   Cyanide, Tot0.10 mg/l
   Iron
   Lead        0.11 mg/l
   Mercury     0.0008 mg/l
   Nickel      1.05 mg/l
   Oil & Grease100.0 mg/l
   pH          6.0-10.5 SU
   Selenium    0.07 mg/l
   Silver      0.29 mg/l
   TSS         1117.0 mg/l
   Zinc        3.06 mg/l
The pH range for wastewater shall be between 6.0 and 10.5 SU
 
   (B)   For pretreatment program compliance monitoring, a report of below
detection limit from an acceptable EPA method will be considered compliant.
   (C)   The conventional pollutants, BOD, TSS, and ammonia would cause the
WWTP to violate its KPDES permit. Therefore the evaluated limit above will be
used as the maximum allowable concentration, but the surcharge limit will be
based on the existing limit below:
 
Discharge        Amount
   Ammonia (NH30.0 mg/l
   BOD        300.0 mg/l
   TSS        300.0 mg/l
 
   (D)   If any person discharges a concentration greater than those set out
above, the Superintendent reserves the right to:
      (1)   Impose an industrial surcharge fee for each pound loading over and
above the set limit at a rate of:
 
Discharge        Surcharge Fee
   Ammonia (NH$ 1.41 per pound
   BOD        0.37 per pound
   TSS        0.28 per pound
 
      (2)   Or require the industry to pretreat the waste to the allowable
concentration prior to discharge to the POTW.
(Ord. passed - -91; Am. Ord. passed 2-3-92; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-93; Am. Ord.
97-17, passed 12-1-97; Am. Ord. 2008-09, passed 8-4-08; Am. Ord. 2012-02,
passed 2-20-12; Am. Ord. 2019-07, passed 4-1-19) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.058 DILUTION OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the Federal
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in any other pollutant-specific
limitation developed by the city or state.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.059 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Accidental discharges. Each user shall provide protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by
this subchapter. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited
materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user's own cost and
expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
this protection shall be submitted to the Superintendent for review, and shall
be approved by the Superintendent before construction of the facility. No user
who commences contribution to the POTW after the effective date of this
subchapter shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until
accidental discharge procedures have been approved by the Superintendent.
Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve
the industrial user from the responsibility to modify the user's facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this subchapter. In case of an accidental
discharge, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and
notify the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include location of
discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
   (B)   Written notice. Within five days following any actual or possible
accidental discharge, the user shall submit to the Superintendent a detailed
written report describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be
taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification
shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability
which may be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any
other damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the
user of any fines, civil penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by
this chapter or other applicable law.
   (C)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user's bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge.
Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause or suffer such a
dangerous discharge to occur are advised of the emergency notification
procedure.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.060 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Upon the promulgation of the Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standard
or a particular industrial subcategory, the Federal Standard, if more stringent
than limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory,
shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter. The
Superintendent shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting
requirement under 40 CFR, Section 403.12.
      (1)   When the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are
expressed only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the
Control Authority may convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed
either as mass of pollutant discharged per day of effluent concentration for
purposes of calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual
industrial users. The user shall comply with the equivalent limits. In addition
to the other information required in the users semi-annual reports to the
Control Authority, a user subject to categorical standards expressed only in
terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure
of operation) must include the user's actual average production rate for the
reporting period.
      (2)   Where process effluent is mixed prior to treatment with wastewaters
other than those generated by the regulated process, fixed alternative
discharge limits may be derived by the Control Authority, as defined in 40 CFR
403.12(a), or by the industrial user with the written concurrence of the
Control Authority. These alterative limits shall be applied to the mixed
effluent. When deriving alternative categorical limits, the Control Authority
or industrial user shall calculate both an alternative daily maximum value
using the daily maximum value(s) specified in the appropriate categorical
pretreatment standard(s) and an alternative consecutive sampling day average
value using the monthly average value(s) specified in the appropriate
categorical pretreatment standard(s). The industrial user shall comply with the
alternative daily maximum and monthly average limits fixed by the Control
Authority until the Control Authority modifies the limit or approves an
industrial user modification request. Modification is authorized whenever there
is a material or significant change in the values used in the calculation to
fix alternative limits of the regulated pollutant. An industrial user must
immediately report any such material or significant change to the Control
Authority. Where appropriate, new alternative categorical limits shall be
calculated within 30 days.
   (B)   Where the Control Authority's wastewater treatment system achieves
consistent removal of pollutants limited by Federal Pretreatment Standards, the
Superintendent may apply to the Approval Authority for modification of specific
limits in the Federal Pretreatment Standards. CONSISTENT REMOVAL shall mean
reduction in the amount of pollutant or alteration of the nature of the
pollutant by the wastewater treatment system to a less toxic or harmless state
in the effluent which is achieved by the system in 95% of the samples taken
when measured according to the procedures set forth in Section 403.7(c)(2) of
Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 403, "General Pretreatment
Regulations for Existing and New Sources of Pollution" promulgated Federal
Pretreatment Standards if the requirements contained in 40 CFR, Part 403,
Section 403.7 are fulfilled and prior approval from the approval authority is
obtained.
(Ord. passed - -91)
§ 61.061 PRETREATMENT; EQUALIZATION OF WASTE FLOWS.
   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics prohibited in this chapter, and which otherwise create hazard
to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
   (A)   Reject the wastes;
   (B)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
   (C)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
   (D)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
waste not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges. If the Superintendent
permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and
installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Ord. passed - -91)
§ 61.062 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.063 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense.
(Ord. passed - -91)
§ 61.064 CONTROL MANHOLE; MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense,
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (B)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with 40 CFR 136 approved test methods and shall be determined at the
control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at the control
manhole, shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb and property.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.065 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations, or
those in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -91)
§ 61.066 CITY'S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish by ordinance more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the wastewater disposal system if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
61.001 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -91)
§ 61.067 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the Utilities Commission and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the POTW for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(Ord. passed - -91)
§ 61.068 USERS TO NOTIFY CONTROL AUTHORITY OF VIOLATIONS.
   If sampling performed by an industrial user indicates a violation, the user
shall notify the Control Authority within 24 hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
result of the repeat analysis to the Control Authority within 30 days after
becoming aware of the violation.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
PRETREATMENT PROGRAM PERMIT ADMINISTRATION
§ 61.080 PERMIT TO DISCHARGE WASTES REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge without a Utilities Commission permit to
any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the city, and/or to the POTW any wastewater except as authorized by the
Superintendent in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.081 WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMITS; APPLICATION.
   (A)   All significant users proposing to connect to or to contribute to the
POTW shall obtain a "Wastewater Discharge Permit" before connecting to or
contributing to the POTW. All existing significant users connected to or
contributing to the POTW shall obtain a "Wastewater Contribution Permit" within
180 days after the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   New users required to obtain a Wastewater Contribution Permit shall
complete and file with the Superintendent an application on the form prescribed
by the Superintendent and accompanied by a fee of $25. Existing users shall
apply for a Wastewater Contribution Permit within 30 days after the effective
date of this chapter, and proposed new users shall apply at least 90 days prior
to connecting to or contributing to the POTW. In support of the application,
the user shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluations, the
following information:
      (1)   User's name and address, and location of facility, (if different
from the address);
      (2)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including but not
limited to those mentioned in §§
61.056 and
61.057 of this chapter as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory;
sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by the EPA pursuant to Section 304(g) of the Act and contained in
40 CFR, Part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily and three-minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation, including all pretreatment equipment;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any city, state or Federal Pretreatment
Standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional O & M and/or
additional pretreatment is required for the user to meet applicable
pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment and/or O & M will be required to meet
the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule
shall not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required of the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (for example, retaining an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction, and the
like).
         (b)   No increment referred to in division (a) above shall exceed nine
months.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the Superintendent.
      (10)    Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (11)    Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)    Number of type of employees, and hours of operation of plant and
proposed of actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)    Any other information as may be deemed by the Superintendent to
be necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (C)   The Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the user and
may require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the Superintendent may issue a Wastewater Contribution Permit
subject to terms and conditions provided herein.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.082 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   Within nine months of the promulgation of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard, the Wastewater Contribution Permit of users subject to
such standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within
the time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a Wastewater Contribution Permit as required by §
61.081(B) and (C), the user shall apply for a Wastewater Contribution Permit
within 180 days after the promulgation of the applicable National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard. In addition, the user with an existing Wastewater
Contribution Permit shall submit to the Superintendent within 180 days after
the promulgation of an applicable Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standard the
information required by §
61.081(B) divisions (8) and (9).
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.083 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Individual wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the Superintendent in accordance with §
61.085;
      (3)   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Self monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency, and sample type based on federal, state, and local law.
      (5)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state, or local law.
      (6)   (a)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Superintendent to be necessary. The Superintendent shall evaluate whether each
SIU needs an accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan or other action
to control slug discharges. The Superintendent may require any user to develop,
submit for approval, and implement such a plan or take such other action that
may be necessary to control slug discharges.
         (b)   An accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan shall
address, at a minimum, the following:
            1.   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine
batch discharges;
            2.   Description of stored chemicals;
            3.   Procedures for immediately notifying the Superintendent of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
61.059; and
            4.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or
slug discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges
and fees established by the Utilities Commission. Permits may contain the
following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for tests and
reporting schedule;
      (6)   Compliance schedules;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical report or discharge
reports (see §§
61.086 and
61.087);
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the Superintendent, and affording
Control Authority access thereto;
      (9)   Requirements for notification of the Superintendent or any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater treatment system.
      (10)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges as per §
61.059.
      (11)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -91; Am. Ord. 2012-02, passed 2-20-12)
§ 61.084 PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five
years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be stated to
expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum
of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user's existing permit. The terms
and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the
Superintendent during the term of the permit as limitations or requirements as
identified in §§
61.056 and
61.057 are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in his permit at least 30 days prior to the effective date
of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Ord. passed - -91)
§ 61.085 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or changed
operation without the approval of the Superintendent. Any succeeding owner or
user shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing permit.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.086 COMPLIANCE DATA REPORTING.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new source, following commencement
of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject to
pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the Superintendent a
report indicating the nature and concentration of all pollutants in the
discharge from the regulated process which are limited by pretreatment
standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow for these
process units in the user facility which are limited by such pretreatment
standards and requirements. The report shall state whether the applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent basis and,
if not, what additional O & M and/or pretreatment is necessary to bring the
user into compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized representative of
the industrial user, and certified by a qualified professional.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.087 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the compliance date
of such pretreatment standard, or a new source, after commencement of the
discharge into the POTW, or any other significant industrial user, shall submit
to the Superintendent during the months of February and November, unless
required more frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the Superintendent,
a report indicating the nature and concentration, of pollutants in the effluent
which are limited by such pretreatment standards and the measured or estimated
average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period. In cases where the
pretreatment standard requires compliance with a best management practice (BMP)
or pollution prevention alternative, the user must submit documentation
required by the Superintendent or the pretreatment standard necessary to
determine the compliance status of the user. The report shall contain all user
self-monitoring results. At the discretion of the Superintendent and in
consideration of such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget
cycles, and the like, the Superintendent may agree to alter the months during
which the above reports are to be submitted.
   (B)   The Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users which are
using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in
other cases where the imposition of mass limitations are appropriate. In such
cases, the report required by division (A) of this section shall indicate the
mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the
user. These reports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the
discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration, or production
and mass where requested by the Superintendent, of pollutants contained therein
which are limited by the applicable pretreatment standards. The frequency of
monitoring shall be prescribed in the applicable pretreatment standard. All
analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by the
Administrator pursuant to Section 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 CFR,
Part 136 and amendments thereto, or with any other test procedures approved by
the Administrator. Sampling shall be performed in accordance with the
techniques approved by the Administrator.
   (C)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (D)   Reports of potential problems.
      (1)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall mmediately telephone and notify
the Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the
location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known,
and corrective actions taken by the user.
      (2)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Superintendent, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be incurred as a result
of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
      (3)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (D)(1) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
      (4)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the
Superintendent immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the
potential for a slug discharge.
   (E)   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting.
      (1)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user
must notify the Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the Superintendent within 30 days after
becoming aware of the violation.
      (2)   Resampling by the industrial user is not required if the city
performs sampling at the user's facility at least once a month, or if the city
performs sampling at the user between the time when the initial sampling was
conducted and the time when the user or the city receives the results of this
sampling, or if the city has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
industrial user.
      (3)   All monitoring cost shall be the responsibility of the user.
(Ord. passed - -91; Am. Ord. 2012-02, passed 2-20-12) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.088 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall require to be provided and operated, at the
user's own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and
flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user's premises, but the
Superintendent may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue
hardship on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street
or sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping
or parked vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the Superintendent's
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Constructions shall be completed within 90 days following
written notification by the Superintendent.
   (D)   Any change in the monitoring location point of an industrial user must
be reported to and approved by the Superintendent prior to making the change.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.089 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   (1)   The Control Authority shall inspect the facilities of any user
to ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all
requirements are being complied with.
      (2)   Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the Control Authority or their representative ready
access at all reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, records examination and copying or in the performance of
any of their duties. The Control Authority, KDEP and EPA shall have the right
to setup on the user's property such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a
user has security measures in force which would require proper identification
and clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary
arrangements with their security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the Control Authority, KDEP and EPA will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
      (3)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in this section, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
Utilities Commission shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the Utilities Commission employees, and the Utilities Commission shall
indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by Utilities
Commission employees and against liability claims and demands for personal
injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the
gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
61.064(A).
   (B)   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted
as part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136 and
amendments thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard. If 40 CFR Part 136 does not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, or where the EPA
determines that the Part 136 sampling and analytical techniques are
inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses shall be
performed by using validated analytical methods or any other applicable
sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested by the
Superintendent or other parties approved by EPA.
   (C)   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on
data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the
period covered by the report, based on data that is representative of
conditions occurring during the reporting period. Required frequency of
monitoring shall include self-monitoring in February and August, unscheduled
monitoring in May and scheduled monitoring in November or more frequently at
the discretion of the Superintendent necessary to assess and assure compliance
by the user with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (1)   Except as indicated in divisions (C)(2) and (3) below, the user
must collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite
sampling techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab
sampling is authorized by the Superintendent. Where time-proportional composite
sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the city, the samples must be
representative of the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate
preservation) specified in 40 CFR Part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance,
multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior
to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the
samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile
organics and oil and grease, the samples may be composited in the laboratory.
Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures
as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the city, as
appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance with
instantaneous limits.
      (2)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total
phenols, sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab
collection techniques.
      (3)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in 40 CFR 403.12(b) and (d), a minimum of four grab
samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide
and volatile organic compounds for facilities for which historical sampling
data do not exist; for facilities for which historical sampling data are
available, the Superintendent may authorize a lower minimum. For the reports
required by 40 CFR 403.12(e) and 403.12(h), the industrial user is required to
collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance by
with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (D)   Date of receipt of reports. Written reports will be deemed to have
been submitted on the date postmarked. For reports, which are not mailed,
postage prepaid, into a mail facility serviced by the United States Postal
Service, the date of receipt of the report shall govern.
   (E)   Recordkeeping.  Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
chapter shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this ordinance, any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements,
and documentation associated with best management practices established under §
61.056. Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the city, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the Superintendent.
(Ord. passed - -91; Am. Ord. 1202-02, passed 2-20-12) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.090 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all Federal
Categorical Pretreatment Standards within the time limitations as specified by
the Federal Pretreatment Regulations. Any facility required to pretreat
wastewater to a level acceptable to the Control Authority shall be provided,
operated, and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the
Superintendent for review, and shall be acceptable to the Superintendent before
construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures
will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the
facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the Control
Authority under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
acceptable to the Superintendent prior to the users initiation of the changes.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall annually publish in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions
served by the POTW, users which were not in compliance with any pretreatment
requirements or standards at least once during the 12 previous months. The
notification shall also summarize any enforcement actions taken against the
user(s) during the same 12 months.
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter taken during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits as defined
in §
61.002;
      (2)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as
defined by §
61.002 multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined in §§
61.055 through
61.068 that the Superintendent determines has caused, alone or in combination
with other discharges. Interference or pass through, including endangering the
health of POTW personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Superintendent's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance;
      (8)   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of best
management practices, which the Superintendent determines will adversely affect
the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the EPA or KDEP upon request.
   (D)   All information and data provided to the Control Authority shall be
made available to the public except as provided in 40 CFR 403.14 and 40 CFR
2.302.
(Ord. passed - -91; Am. Ord. 2012-02, passed 2-20-12) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.091 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent that the release of such information would
divulge information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit, State Disposal
System Permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such
portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state
agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be
recognized as confidential information. Information accepted by the
Superintendent as confidential, shall not be transmitted to any governmental
agency or to the general public by the Utilities Commission until and unless a
ten-day notification is given to the user.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.092 HAZARDOUS WASTES.
   (A)   All users shall promptly notify the Superintendent, the EPA Regional
Waste Management Division Director, and state hazardous waste authorities in
writing of any discharge into the POTW of a substance, which, if otherwise
disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40 CFR Part 261. Such
notification must include:
      (1)   The name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 CFR 261;
      (2)   The EPA hazardous waste number;
      (3)   The type of discharge (continuous, batch or other).
   (B)   If the user discharges more than 100 kilograms of such waste per
calendar month to the POTW, the notification shall also contain the following
information to the extent such information is known and readily available to
the user:
      (1)   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes;
      (2)   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in
the waste stream discharged during that calendar month;
      (3)   An estimation of the mass of constituents to be discharged during
the following 12 months.
   (C)   Users who commence discharging after the effective date (July 24,
1990) of 40 CFR 403.12 (p) shall provide this notification no later than 180
days after the discharge of the hazardous waste and/or the adoption of this
chapter.
   (D)   Users are exempt from the above requirements during a calendar month
in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless
the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and
261.33(e), thus requiring a one-time notification. Subsequent months during
which the user discharges additional quantities of such hazardous wastes do not
require additional information.
   (E)   In the case of new regulations under Section 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste, or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the Superintendent, the
EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state hazardous waste
authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the effective
date of such regulations.
   (F)   All users required to provide such notification shall certify that
they have a program in place to reduce the volume of toxic or hazardous wastes
generated to the degree they have determined to be economically practical.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
FEES
§ 61.105 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the recovery of costs
from users of the wastewater disposal system for the implementation of the
program established herein. The applicable charges or fees shall be set forth
in the Utilities Commission's schedule of charges and fees.
(Ord. passed - -91)
§ 61.106 CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The Utility Commission may adopt charges and fees which may include:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
Control Authority's pretreatment program;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
      (4)   Fees for permit applications;
      (5)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (6)   Fees for consistent removal (by the POTW) of pollutants otherwise
subject to Federal Pretreatment Standards;
      (7)   Other fees as the Utilities Commission may deem necessary to carry
out the requirements contained herein.
   (B)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the city and/or Utilities
Commission.
(Ord. passed - -91)
CONSTRUCTION
§ 61.115 SEWER CONSTRUCTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Prior to the commencement of construction of a sanitary sewer, or public
sewer within the service area of the city or any extension thereof, and in
addition to any necessary permits from agencies of the Commonwealth of Kentucky
or federal government, each person shall apply for a sewer construction permit
from the Utilities Commission of the city, paying therefor the fees set by said
Commission.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.116 APPLICATION.
   Each application shall indicate the same of the property owner of owners
upon whose property such sewers shall be constructed, the name of the Kentucky
registered engineer or surveyor preparing the plans, a copy of the plans and
specifications, which shall have been approved by the appropriate state and
federal agencies, and the name and address of the contractor.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76)
§ 61.117 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   No application shall be approved unless and until the specifications contain
the following minimum standards:
   (A)   Size of collector sewers.
      (1)   Residential. Serving residential areas only a minimum of eight
inches.
      (2)   Commercial. Serving mixed residential, commercial and industrial
areas a minimum size sufficient to carry the expected load, plus an amount
equal to 25% overload.
   (B)   Manholes.
      (1)   Manholes shall be made of precast concrete with an interior
diameter not less than 48 inches and shall have a ladder adequate to permit
safe ingress and egress.
      (2)   Manholes shall be placed not more than 300 feet apart and at every
change of direction of the sewer.
      (3)   All connections and joints at manholes shall be made watertight,
inside and out.
      (4)   Top surfaces of manholes and covers shall be ¼ inch above the
surface of finished streets.
      (5)   Manhole covers shall be of either steel or cast iron with no
ventilating holes and of adequate strength to carry normal city traffic.
   (C)   Material standards.
      (1)   Force mains shall be of cast iron with bell and spigot or
mechanical joints.
      (2)   Collector sewer lines shall be of centrifically-cast iron, precast
concrete or salt glazed tile.
   (D)   Lift stations.
      (1)   Lift stations shall be installed where necessary and shall be of
the centrifical pump design.
      (2)   Manholes for lift stations shall have adequate working room for
servicing and meet the specifications in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (E)   Connections.
      (1)   All connections and joints shall be water tight to prevent and
reduce to a minimum the infiltration of ground water and the leakage of sewage.
      (2)   Connections in salt glaze tile or precast concrete shall be of the
bituminous joint type.
      (3)   Connections in cast iron shall be of the bell and spigot or
mechanical joint type.
   (F)   Construction methods.
      (1)   All sewer lines shall be bedded and covered with natural sand or
Kentucky No. 11 limestone rock or smaller.
      (2)   Gravity sewers shall be designed to provide a flow velocity of two
feet per second.
   (G)   General. Service connections at the property line shall be marked with
steel stakes extending three feet above grade.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.118 INSPECTION.
   All construction shall be inspected by the Superintendent of Utilities of
the city or his deputy before backfilling.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.119 APPROVAL AND ACCEPTANCE; CONNECTION TO CITY SYSTEM.
   (A)   After construction, inspection, the tender of a complete set of "as
built" plans, drawn by a Kentucky registered engineer or surveyor, showing all
lines, size of lines, manholes and other appurtenances referred to permanent
markers, and instruments conveying necessary easements to the city to the
Utilities Commission, and the payment of accrued fees, the Utilities Commission
shall consider its approval and acceptance of the project.
   (B)   No person shall connect, or permit to be connected, any sewer
collector lines or force sewer main to the city system until he first has the
approval and acceptance of the Utilities Commission of the lines and main.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76) Penalty, see §
61.999
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 61.130 MONTHLY SEWER RATES.
   The schedule of rates and charges for the services and facilities furnished
by the sewer system portion of the utilities system shall be set by the
Utilities Commission in conformity with §
63.19.
(Ord. passed 9-17-79; Am. Ord. 2005-2, passed 2-7-05)
§ 61.131 MONTHLY SEWER USER CHARGE.
   (A)   It is a condition of the grant to the city from the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for meeting the cost of improvements to
the sewer system that operation and maintenance expenses incurred in connection
with the operation of the sewer system be charged at actual cost to each
customer in addition to the regular monthly charges for sewer service set forth
in §
61.130. Therefore, in addition to the monthly sewer service charges set forth
in §
61.130, there shall be an additional monthly sewer user charge in the amount of
$.88 per 1,000 gallons of water service billed. The sewer user charge shall be
segregated from other monies of the utilities system and applied only to meet
operation and maintenance expenses of the sewer system.
   (B)   Each user of the sewer system shall be notified not less than once
each year, in conjunction with a regular monthly bill, of the rate and method
of computation of the sewer user charge then in effect.
(Ord. passed 9-17-79; Am. Ord. passed 5-17-82)
§ 61.132 SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE.
   A connection and installation charge of $300 is hereby established for each
residential connection to the sewer system. The connection and installation
charge for industrial and commercial service shall be the cost of the
installation plus 10% of the installation cost.
(Ord. passed 9-17-79)
§ 61.133 BILLINGS; PENALTIES FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   Whenever rates and charges remain unpaid for 15 days after the same
shall become due and payable, the property and the owner thereof, as well as
the user of the services and facilities, shall be delinquent until such time as
all such rates and charges are fully paid. The city shall have the right to
shut off and discontinue utility service to all delinquent customers whose
bills remain unpaid 15 days after the due date, and the city shall have the
right not to restore service to any delinquent customer until all delinquent
charges, including penalty charges, as set by the Utilities Commission, plus a
disconnection and reconnection charge, as set by the Utilities Commission, from
each meter have been paid in full.
   (B)   All bills shall be rendered at least monthly as determined by the
Utilities Commission and shall be due as determined by the Utilities Commission
and mailed to the address on file. The Utilities Commission shall set a penalty
amount for late payment.
   (C)   If the customer is not the property owner but instead is renting or
leasing the premises to which city utilities are provided, then the city's
normal and customary late notice/cutoff notice shall be sent to the customer as
well as the property owner at the address on file with the city. The property
owner shall have the right and authority to cause the city to shut off and
disconnect the city provided utilities service after the date of the late
notice/cutoff notice without obtaining the approval of the customer. Provided,
however, the failure of the city to terminate utility service as ordered by the
property owner shall not relieve the property owner from liability for the
accrued delinquent utility charges as provided in this code.
(Ord. passed 9-17-79; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-82; Am. Ord. 2005-2, passed 2-7-05;
Am. Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-3-06)
§ 61.134 RATES AND CHARGES APPLICABLE TO ALL CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   The rates and charges for the services provided by the system shall
apply to all residential, commercial and other establishments in any manner
directly or indirectly connected with the utilities system of the city.
   (B)   The rates and charges herein set out shall be billed to the party
making application for such services. The City Utilities Commission may require
such security of indemnity deposits for service as it deems appropriate.
   (C)   No free service shall be allowed or permitted from the utilities
system shall be permitted or made except on a metered basis.
(Ord. passed 9-17-79)
VIOLATIONS; REMEDIES
§ 61.145 HARMFUL CONTRIBUTIONS; SUSPENSION OF UTILITY SERVICE.
   (A)   The Superintendent may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or
a Wastewater Contribution Permit when such suspension is necessary, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, in order to stop an actual or threatened
discharge which presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment
to the health or welfare of persons, to the environment, causes interference to
the POTW or causes the POTW to violate any condition of its KPDES Permit.
   (B)   Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the Wastewater Contribution Permit shall immediately stop or
eliminate the contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the Superintendent shall take such steps
as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to
prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any
individuals. The Superintendent shall reinstate the Wastewater Contribution
Permit and/or the wastewater treatment service upon proof of an elimination of
the noncomplying discharge. A detailed written statement submitted by the user
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence shall be submitted to the Superintendent within
15 days of the date of occurrence.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.146 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any user who violates the following conditions of this chapter, or
applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to having his permit
revoked in accordance with the procedures of Section 4 of this chapter.
   (A)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his discharge;
   (B)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
   (C)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring;
   (D)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
(Ord. passed - -91)
§ 61.147 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Superintendent finds that any user has violated or is violating
this chapter, Wastewater Contribution Permit, or any prohibition, or limitation
of requirements contained herein, the Superintendent may serve upon such person
a written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days of the
date of the notice, a plan for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be
submitted to the Superintendent by the user.
(Ord. passed - -91) Penalty, see §
61.999
§ 61.148 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The Superintendent may order any user who causes or allows an
unauthorized discharge to show cause before the Utilities Commission why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be served on
the user specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the Utilities
Commission regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is being taken,
the proposed enforcement action, and directing the user to show cause before
the Utilities Commission why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing.
Service may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
   (B)   The Utilities Commission may itself conduct the hearing and take the
evidence, or may designate any of its members or any officer or employee of the
assigned department to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the Utilities Commission notices of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence;
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Utilities
Commission for action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this section, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded, will be
made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the usual charges therefor.
   (D)   After the Utilities Commission has reviewed the evidence, it may issue
an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a
specified time period the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are properly
operated. Further orders and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be
issued.
(Ord. passed - -91)
§ 61.149 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE.
   The Superintendent is hereby empowered to enter into a compliance schedule,
assurance of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an
agreement with the user responsible for the noncompliance. Such compliance
schedule will include specific action to be taken by the user to correct the
noncompliance within a time period also specified by the compliance schedule.
(Ord. passed - -91)
§ 61.150 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   (A)   A compliance order is an order by the Superintendent in the form of a
document requiring specific tasks that will result in user compliance within a
specified time period.
   (B)   When the Superintendent finds that any user has violated or continues
to violate these regulations, or a discharge permit, or compliance schedule
issued thereunder, he shall issue an order to the user responsible for the
discharge directing that, following a specified time period, sewer service
shall be disconnected unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other
related appurtenances have been installed and are properly operated. Orders may
also contain other such requirements as might be reasonably necessary and
appropriate to address the noncompliance, including but not limited to, the
installation of the pretreatment technology, additional monitoring and
management practices necessary to meet pretreatment limits. The Superintendent
may also take more severe enforcement actions, such as civil fines,
discontinuance of water service or judicial remedies.
(Ord. passed - -91)
§ 61.151 USER LIABILITY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the Utilities Commission for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned
the Utilities Commission by reason of such violation.
(Ord. passed - -91)
§ 61.152 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes into the
city wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
federal or state pretreatment requirements or any order of the Superintendent,
the Utilities Commission's Attorney may commence an action for appropriate
legal and/or equitable relief in the Circuit Court of Grayson County.
(Ord. passed - -91)
§ 61.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil fines. The Superintendent may impose civil fines on industrial
users upon proper notice of continued non-compliance with the provisions of
this chapter. Fines shall not exceed $1,000 per day per violation. The
Superintendent may take appropriate action by assessment, addition to utility
bill or attachment of lien in order to collect said fine.
   (B)   Any industrial user who willfully or negligently violates any
provision of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided, or any
orders or permits issued hereunder shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000,000 per violation per
day or imprisonment for not more than one year or both. In the event of a
second conviction, the user shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
$3,000,000 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than 3 years or
both.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §
61.003 shall upon conviction be, punished by a fine of not more than $1,000,000
per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or both. In
the event of a second conviction, the user shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed $3,000,000 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than 3
years or both.
(Ord. passed - -91)
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
61.115 through
61.119 shall be fined not more than $1,000 for each offense or violation.
CHAPTER 62: WATER
Section
Water Transmission Lines and Service
   
62.01   Definitions
   
62.02   Water transmission line construction permit required
   
62.03   Application
   
62.04   Construction standards
   
62.05   Disinfection and cleaning
   
62.06   Inspection
   
62.07   Approval and acceptance
   
62.08   Connection to city system; compliance with county-wide water and sewer
plan
   
62.09   Fire protection lines
Rates and Charges
   
62.20   Monthly water rates
   
62.21   Monthly service connection charge
   
62.22   Billings; penalties for late payment
   
62.23   Rates and charges applicable to all customers
Cross Connection Prevention Program
   
62.30   Purpose; authority
   
62.31   Definitions
   
62.32   Requirements
 
   
62.99   Penalty
WATER TRANSMISSION LINES AND SERVICE
§ 62.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Leitchfield and its water service area.
   COMMERCIAL AREA. An area mixed with residential buildings and retail
establishments or with retail establishments only.
   COMMISSION. The Utility Commission of the city.
   FIRE PROTECTION LINE(S). Water transmission line(s), metered, dedicated
solely to fire protection.
   INDUSTRIAL AREA. An area mixed with residential buildings, retail
establishments and industrial establishments or with industrial establishments
only.
   INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment used for the purpose of
manufacturing a finished product or products, occupying a building containing
5,000 square feet or more.
   PERSON. Any individual or other legal entity.
   (B)   All other terms shall be defined as generally accepted in the trade.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76; Am. Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-5-21)
§ 62.02 WATER TRANSMISSION LINE CONSTRUCTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Prior to the commencement or construction of a water transmission line
within the service area of the city or any extensions thereof, and in addition
to any necessary permits from agencies of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or
federal government, each person shall apply for a water transmission line
construction permit from the Utilities Commission of the city, paying therefore
the fees set by the Commission.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 62.03 APPLICATION.
   Each application shall indicate the name of the property owner or owners
upon whose property the water transmission line shall be constructed, the name
of the Kentucky registered engineer or surveyor preparing the plans, a copy of
the plans and specifications which shall have been approved by the appropriate
state and federal agencies, and the name and address of the contractor.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76)
§ 62.04 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   No application shall be approved unless and until the specifications contain
the following minimum standards:
   (A)   Size of water transmission lines.
      (1)   In residential areas without fire protection, not less than two-
inch water lines may be permitted with a maximum distance of 500 feet;
distances above 500 feet to 1,200 feet shall be not less than four-inch.
      (2)   The maximum allowable distance with six-inch lines with no cross
connection shall be 5,000 feet.
      (3)   All lines extending over 5,000 feet shall be a size set and
approved by the Utilities Commission or its designee.
      (4)   All lines serving commercial or industrial areas shall be a size
set and approved by the Utilities Commission or its designee.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76; Am. Ord. 2005-2, passed 2-7-05)
   (B)   Materials.
      (1)   Water transmission lines sized two-inch through six-inch shall be
Schedule 80 plastic pipe with bell and spigot or mechanical joints, or
centrifically-cast iron pipe with mechanical or bell and spigot joints, or
equivalent.
      (2)   All bends and turns shall be made with fittings approved by the
Commission.
      (3)   All valves shall be gate valves, equal to or to exceeding M&H gate
valve, Figures 67M, and shall be of a type with replaceable seats and gates.
      (4)   Grillage shall be natural sand or Kentucky No. 11 limestone rock or
smaller.
      (5)   Water mains, regardless of size, at stream crossings shall be
centrifically-cast iron and shall be placed above the normal high water mark.
      (6)   Blow-off valves shall have adequate metal valve boxes to serve the
size valves installed.
      (7)   All valves shall be gate valves.
      (8)   Fire protection line(s) after the effective date of this section,
or any extensions of an existing fire protection line after the effective date
of this section, shall have, at the sole cost of the user, a dector check valve
(DCV). DCV shall be approved as to type and installation by the Utilities
Superintendent or his or her designee.
   (C)   Construction methods.
      (1)   All water transmission lines shall have a 30-inch cover and shall
be bedded in proper grillage as determined by the Utilities Commission.
      (2)   Water transmission lines laid with or in the vicinity of sewer
lines shall be in compliance with regulations of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      (3)   All water transmission lines crossing under streets shall be
encased in steel casings large enough to allow water lines to be slipped
through such casings.
      (4)   All turns and tees shall be adequately anchored by poured concrete
anchor blocks.
      (5)   All water transmission lines exceeding 100 feet and dead-ending
shall be equipped with a hydrant or blow-off valve at the end thereof.
      (6)   The top surface of valve boxes with cover shall be not greater than
1/4-inch above finished street grade.
      (7)   All water transmission lines shall be cross connected at every
street intersection.
      (8)   Two valves shall be provided at every main line tee and three
valves at every cross connection.
      (9)   In all new water main construction, water taps shall be provided by
the city to the property line to service each building lot.
   (D)   Hydrants.
      (1)   Fire hydrants shall be installed, one every 300 feet radius.
      (2)   Hydrants shall be traffic type with 2½-inch outlets and one steamer
connection.
      (3)   Hydrants shall be set not less than four feet from the edge of the
street pavement and a gate valve shall be set between the hydrant and the main
line.
      (4)   All hydrants shall be cast iron with brass connections and
replaceable stems and seats.
      (5)   All hydrants shall be self-draining.
   (E)   Service connections.
      (1)   In all new water main construction, water taps shall be provided to
the property line to service each building lot.
      (2)   All service taps shall be installed with proper service saddles in
three-quarter inch plastic lines meeting schedule ASTM-D-2737 unless otherwise
approved by the Commission.
      (3)   Fees for service connections shall be, from time to time, set by
the Commission.
      (4)   Each service connection at the property line shall be marked with a
steel stake extended three feet above grade.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76; Am. Ord. 2005-2, passed 2-7-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 62.05 DISINFECTION AND CLEANING.
   All lines shall be cleaned and disinfected in accordance with all
Commonwealth of Kentucky regulations at the expense of the developer or
contractor.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 62.06 INSPECTION.
   All construction shall be inspected by the Superintendent of Utilities of
the city or his deputy before backfilling.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 62.07 APPROVAL AND ACCEPTANCE.
   After construction, inspection, the tender of a complete set of "as built"
plans drawn by a Kentucky registered engineer or surveyor, showing all lines
sizes of lines, hydrants, blow-off valves, gate valves and other appurtenances
referred to permanent markers, the instruments conveying necessary easements to
the city, to the Utilities Commission and the payment of accrued fees, the
Utilities Commission shall consider its approval and acceptance of the project.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76)
§ 62.08 CONNECTION TO CITY SYSTEM; COMPLIANCE WITH COUNTY-WIDE WATER AND SEWER
PLAN.
   No person shall cause or permit to be connected, save for the purpose of
testing and cleaning, and then under the supervision of the Superintendent of
Utilities, any water transmission line to the city utilities system until he
first has the approval and acceptance of the Utility Commission of the water
transmission line.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 62.09 FIRE PROTECTION LINES.
   (A)   Fire protection lines are a service provided in the absolute
discretion of the Utilities Commission.
   (B)   Fire protection lines installed on user's property are not the
property of the city and it is the responsibility and duty of the user to
construct same in accordance with construction standards §
62.04, to properly maintain same and to keep these lines from leaking.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 2-7-05)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 62.20 MONTHLY WATER RATES.
   The schedule of rates and charges for the services and facilities furnished
by the water system portion of the utilities system shall be as follows:
   (A)   Monthly water service provided within the corporate limits of the
city.
Water Usage Rate
Water Usage                       Rate
First 2,000 gallons per month     $ 6.40 (minimum bill)
Next 3,000 gallons per month      3.00 per 1,000 gallons
Next 5,000 gallons per month      2.40 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons per month     1.80 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons per month     1.70 per 1,000 gallons
Next 20,000 gallons per month     1.30 per 1,000 gallons
All over 50,000 gallons per month 1.20 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   Monthly water service provided outside the corporate limits of the
city. The monthly charges for water service provided outside the corporate
limits of the city shall be 100% of the charges set forth in division (A) above
for service provided within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. passed 9-17-79; Am. Ord. passed 5-17-82)
§ 62.21 MONTHLY SERVICE CONNECTION CHARGE.
   A connection and installation charge for residential water service is hereby
established for each connection to the water system and shall be set by the
Utilities Commission. The connection and installation charge for industrial and
commercial service shall also be set by the Utilities Commission and shall be
at minimum the cost of the installation plus 10% of the installation costs.
(Ord. passed 9-17-79; Am. Ord. 2005-2, passed 2-7-05)
§ 62.22 BILLINGS; PENALTIES FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   Whenever rates and charges remain unpaid for 15 days after the same
shall become due and payable, the property and the owner thereof, as well as
the user of the services and facilities, shall be delinquent until such time as
all such rates and charges are fully paid. The city shall have the right to
shut off and discontinue utility service to all delinquent customers whose
bills remain unpaid 15 days after the due date, and the city shall have the
right not to restore service to any delinquent customer until all delinquent
charges, including penalty charges, as set by the Utilities Commission, plus a
disconnection and reconnection charge, as set by the Utilities Commission, for
each meter have been paid in full.
   (B)   All bills shall be rendered at least monthly as determined by the
Utilities Commission and shall be due as determined by the Utilities Commission
and mailed to the address on file.
   (C)   The Utilities Commission shall set a penalty amount for late payment.
   (D)   If the customer is not the property owner but instead is renting or
leasing the premises to which city utilities are provided, then the city's
normal and customary late notice/cutoff notice shall be sent to the customer as
well as the property owner at the address on file with the city. The property
owner shall have the right and authority to cause the city to shut off and
disconnect the city provided utilities service after the date of the late
notice/cutoff notice without obtaining the approval of the customer. Provided,
however, the failure of the city to terminate utility service as ordered by the
property owner shall not relieve the property owner from liability for the
accrued delinquent utility charges as provided in this code.
(Ord. passed 9-17-79; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-82; Am. Ord. 2005-2, passed 2-7-05;
Am. Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-3-06)
§ 62.23 RATES AND CHARGES APPLICABLE TO ALL CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   The rates and charges for the services provided by the system shall
apply to all residential, commercial and other establishments in any manner
directly or indirectly connected with the utilities system of the city.
   (B)   The rates and charges herein set out shall be billed to the party
making application for such services. The City Utilities Commission may require
such security of indemnity deposits for service as it deems appropriate.
   (C)   No free service shall be allowed or permitted from the utilities
system, and no permanent connections to the system shall be permitted or made
except on a metered basis except for fire protection lines.
(Ord. passed 9-17-79; Am. Ord. 2005-2, passed 2-7-05)
CROSS CONNECTION PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 62.30 PURPOSE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish a program to assure
that the public water supply is protected from any auxiliary water supply which
may cause contamination due to backflow or cross connections. The city
recognizes that contamination of the public water supply presents an imminent
health hazard to the residential and non-residential users of the public water
system; the threat of significant economic loss due to disrupted water service
to such residential and nonresidential water users and the potential liability
to the city.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this subchapter to meet the requirements
of 401 KAR 8:020 as enacted by the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Cabinet.
   (C)   This subchapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 2008-11, passed 12-15-08)
§ 62.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the city's public water supply. These auxiliary waters may include
water from any natural source such as a well, spring, river, stream or body of
water or any water or other substance of unknown or questionable quality that
may present a health or system hazard to the potable public water supply.
   BACKFLOW. The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. A listing of acceptable BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES and degree of
hazard is available in the Kentucky State Plumbing Law, Regulations and Code.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the potable water supply by
any waste product, fluid, substance, compound or other material to a degree
which creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through the spread of disease.
   CROSS CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two otherwise separate piping systems one of which contains
potable water and the other nonpotable water or substance of questionable
quality, through which, or because of which, backflow may occur into the
potable water system.
   THERMAL EXPANSION TANK. A device installed on the cold water supply line
near a water heater to compensate for the expansion of water within a water
system when such water is heated.
(Ord. 2008-11, passed 12-15-08)
§ 62.32 REQUIREMENTS.
   The city shall provide protection to the public water system against
backflow by implementing the following requirements:
   (A)   Residential. Buildings used for habitation or occupancy shall be
considered as residential buildings. No new water service connection to any
premises shall be installed or allowed to be installed by the city unless such
service connection is protected by a backflow prevention assembly. Residential
service connections shall be considered as low hazard applications and all such
connections shall have at a minimum a dual check valve backflow preventer
installed between the water meter and the residence. The city may require
additional or alternate backflow prevention assemblies if the degree of hazard
constitutes a higher level of protection for the public water system.
   (B)   Nonresidential. No new water service connection to any non-residential
facility shall be installed or allowed to be installed by the city unless such
water service connection is protected by a backflow prevention assembly. The
type of protective device required shall be determined at the time of
installation of the service connection and shall be commensurate with the
degree of hazard at the point of such service connection. At a minimum the
service connection shall be installed with a dual check valve backflow
preventer. In the event activities to occur within a nonresidential facility
change and creates a higher degree of hazard, then the backflow prevention
assembly shall be replaced with an assembly which provides acceptable
protection.
   (C)   Inspections. The customer's water system shall be open for inspection
at all reasonable times to authorized representatives of the city to determine
whether cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including
violation of this subchapter, exist. When such a condition becomes known, the
city shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing
a physical break in the service line until the customer has corrected the
condition in conformance with the state and city statutes relating to plumbing,
water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuantly thereto. Water service to
any premises shall be discontinued if it is found that a backflow prevention
assembly required by this subchapter has been removed, bypassed, or if an
unprotected cross connection exists on the premises. Service will not be
restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
   (D)   Existing service connections. All existing water service connections
which do not have backflow prevention assemblies or existing water service
connections which have less than the minimum required backflow prevention
assemblies, shall, except for the inspection requirements, be excluded from the
requirements of this subchapter so long as the city is assured that the public
water system is satisfactorily protected. However, if the city determines that
a hazard to health exists, then a backflow prevention assembly meeting the
requirements of this subchapter may be installed on such existing service
connection. Backflow prevention assemblies shall not be installed on existing
service connections until after the property owner of such residential or
commercial property has been informed of the actual and potential hazards that
may be created as a result of such backflow assembly installation. Notices
provided to such property owners shall include the following language as
adopted in 815 KAR 20:120 Section 2. item (6): When cross connection control
devices are properly installed, they create a closed water system. A properly
sized thermal expansion tank shall be installed in the cold water supply
located as near the water heater as possible.
(Ord. 2008-11, passed 12-15-08)
§ 62.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of any section relating to water shall result in the refusal
to provide water service and/or disconnection of service until the violation is
corrected in the complete discretion of the Utilities Commission.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 2-7-05)
CHAPTER 63: UTILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
63.01   Obstruction of utility fixtures
Utility Commission
   
63.10   Establishment
   
63.11   Composition
   
63.12   Vacancies; term; bylaws
   
63.13   Membership specifications; compensation
   
63.14   Duties of officers; meetings
   
63.15   Supervision of utilities system; adoption of budget
   
63.16   Superintendent, other employees under direction of Commission
   
63.17   Agreements; contract between city and holders of revenue bonds
   
63.18   Authorization to use city streets for utility lines
   
63.19   Annual rate review
   
63.20   Separate internal books
   
63.21   Profit and loss summary
   
63.22   Installation, maintenance and testing of fire hydrants
   
63.23   Unified utility bills; procedure to disconnect for non-payment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 63.01 OBSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FIXTURES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIXTURES. Those parts of the utilities system designed and meant to be
readily accessible for control, maintenance, and operation of the utilities
system, including but not limited to manholes, valves and meters.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any natural or manmade object which interferes with the
immediate access to fixtures of the utilities system.
   PERSON. An individual or any other legal entity.
   UTILITY SYSTEM. The combined operation of the natural gas, water and sewer
utilities belonging to the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit an obstruction
of a fixture whether it be by allowing the growth of natural plant life or by
construction of buildings, streets, driveways or any other such manmade
objects.
   (C)   The Superintendent of Public Utilities shall cause each such
obstruction that is brought to his attention to be immediately removed and the
cost thereof is charged to the persons responsible for the obstruction.
   (D)   Any person in violation of the provisions of this section shall be
liable to the city for the cost of removing any obstruction and the repair for
damage to a fixture, if any.
(Ord. passed 5-2-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
UTILITY COMMISSION
§ 63.10 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The management and control of the municipal utilities system (water, sewer
and natural gas) of the city shall be carried on by a City Utilities Commission
created, appointed and performing the functions as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-7-68)
§ 63.11 COMPOSITION.
   The Commission shall consist of five Commissioners, who shall be of
outstanding reputation for ability and integrity. Upon the resignation of
Commissioner Carl Smith, the Mayor will automatically become an ex-officio
member of the Commission with all voting rights and privileges; provided,
however, that the Mayor shall receive no compensation and shall not serve as
Chairman of the Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-7-68; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-93)
§ 63.12 VACANCIES; TERM; BYLAWS.
   All vacancies in the City Utilities Commission shall be filled for the
unexpired term, and all other appointments shall be for a term of four years.
Each commissioner will be appointed at least 30 days prior to the date that any
vacancy is to occur although such commissioner will serve until the vacancy
takes place. In addition, if any of the commissioners resign or become unable
to serve for any reason, the City Council shall appoint a replacement for the
departing commissioner for the remainder of the term within at least 30 days
from the date of such resignation or departure. A majority of the Commission at
any meeting shall constitute a quorum. The Commission may adopt rules and
bylaws for the time and place of its meetings and the conduct thereof.
(Ord. passed 10-7-68; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-93)
§ 63.13 MEMBERSHIP SPECIFICATIONS; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   All members of the Commission, so long as they are Commissioners,
shall be residents and taxpayers of the city. All appointments shall be until
their successors shall have qualified. Any Commissioners by appointment shall
be eligible for reappointment upon the expiration of his term. Each
Commissioner, as such, shall receive reasonable compensation monthly, as may be
fixed from time to time by the Commission, subject to the approval of the City
Council. Each appointed Commissioner shall be removable for cause by record
vote of a majority of the members of the Commission.
   (B)   No member of the City Council shall simultaneously serve as a member
of the City Utilities Commission, such simultaneous membership being
incompatible one with the other.
(Ord. passed 10-7-68; Am. Ord. 2004-8, passed 6-21-04; Am. Ord. 2023-27, passed
12-5-23)
§ 63.14 DUTIES OF OFFICERS; MEETINGS.
   At the first meeting of the Commission and annually thereafter the
Commission shall organize by the designation of one of the members of the
Commission to act as Chairperson and another to act as Secretary and Treasurer.
The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings, when present, and shall call
special meetings of the Commission. Provisions shall be made for holding one
regular meeting each month as to which special notice need not be given. The
Secretary-Treasurer shall keep a record of the proceedings of the Commission,
which shall be available for inspection, as are other municipal records. The
Secretary-Treasurer shall, in addition to any compensation received as a member
of the Commission, receive a reasonable compensation, commensurate with his
duties, the exact amount to be fixed by the Commission subject to the approval
of the City Council, for his services in collecting and expending monies for
such Commission. Any appointed member of the Commission failing to attend four
successive regular meetings without cause acceptable to and approved by the
Commission shall thereby automatically be removed from office.
(Ord. passed 10-7-68)
§ 63.15 SUPERVISION OF UTILITIES SYSTEM; ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   The Commission shall have the full, absolute, complete and exclusive
supervision, management and control of the utilities system, including without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the administration, maintenance,
operation and extension thereof. All bills for services rendered by such system
shall be collected and accounted for by the Commission in the manner and form
required by law, and all collections shall be deposited with the Treasurer of
the Commission as he may direct. Such municipal utilities system shall be
operated on a fiscal year basis, commencing on June 1 of each year and ending
on May 31 of the following year, and at least 30 days prior to the beginning of
each fiscal year the Commission shall cause to be prepared and adopt a detailed
budget of the estimated amounts of money to be received in connection with the
operation of such system and the necessary expenditures in connection therewith
for the next ensuing fiscal year, a copy of which budget shall be filed with
the City Clerk/Treasurer. All disbursements for the account of such system
shall be ordered paid out only upon the approval of the Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-7-68)
§ 63.16 SUPERINTENDENT, OTHER EMPLOYEES UNDER DIRECTION OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Commission shall have full and complete control, supervision and
management of all the employees of the utility system. The Superintendent or
Manager, if one is designated shall perform such duties as may be conferred
upon him by the Commission. No person shall be employed by the Commission who
is related within the third degree to any member of the Commission.
   (B)   Legal counsel to the Commission shall always be separate and distinct
from legal counsel to the City Council.
(Ord. passed 10-7-68; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-93)
§ 63.17 AGREEMENTS; CONTRACT BETWEEN CITY AND HOLDERS OF REVENUE BONDS.
   (A)   The Commission shall perform any and all covenants and agreements
contained in any contract or obligation between the city and the holder of any
revenue bonds secured by the revenues of such system hereafter created to the
full extent permitted by law.
   (B)   In enacting this subchapter it is intended that same shall be a
contract protected against impairment under the principles laid down in the
case of Keathley vs. Town of Martin (Ky.), 253 S.W.2d 8, and that so long as
any currently issued revenue bonds, or any bonds issued to refund any of such
bonds, are outstanding, either as to principal or interest thereon, this
subchapter cannot be changed, varied or altered in any manner, it being
intended that the provisions of this subchapter shall constitute a contract
between the city and each and every holder of such bonds hereinbefore referred
to and that purchasers of any of such bonds may purchase the same in reliance
upon the contract set out herein, since the City Council of the city enacts
this subchapter for the assurance and protection of the citizens of the city,
and for the purpose of assuring the holder or holders of such bonds of the
efficient operation of the system.
(Ord. passed 10-7-68)
§ 63.18 AUTHORIZATION TO USE CITY STREETS FOR UTILITY LINES.
   The Utilities Commission of the city, being a delegated authority of the
city, is hereby granted the right to lay, install, construct and maintain
water, natural gas, and sewer waste transmission lines on, under, and across
the streets, alleys and highways of the city.
(Ord. passed 3-19-79)
§ 63.19 ANNUAL RATE REVIEW.
   (A)   There shall be an annual rate review of the system at the end of the
system's fiscal year commencing with the fiscal year ending June 30, 1993, and,
such rates will be set separately for each component of the system, that is,
each rate shall be calculated separately for the water component, the sewer
component, and the gas component for the utilities system and, when such rates
need to be adjusted according to the following formula that adjustment shall be
made automatically by the Utilities Commission without the necessity of
approval by the City Council.
      (1)   Operation and maintenance costs;
      (2)   Principal and interest on this debt of the system (1993 refunding
bonds and the second lien Kentucky Infrastructure debt and any additional
future debt);
      (3)   A Debt Service Reserve Fund to average annual debt service on the
1993 bonds and any additional first lien parity bonds over a period of 60
months;
      (4)   A Depreciation Reserve Fund over a 60-month period to a total of
$350,000; and
      (5)   An Operation and Maintenance Fund equal to two months operations
over 60-month period.
   (B)   The Commissioners shall monitor the above factors, and at such time as
it is necessary to raise or lower rates in order to accommodate said factors,
the Commissioners shall do so.
(Ord. passed 3-15-93)
Editor's note:
   Pursuant to Ord. 2005-08, passed 10-3-05, the Utility Commission has
requested that the required automatic rate increase for the water system be
held in abeyance until January 1, 2007 due to the projected high price of
natural gas and its impact on the citizens of the city.
§ 63.20 SEPARATE INTERNAL BOOKS.
   Each part of the utility system (water, sewer and gas) will have separate
internal books kept annually. There will be one annual audit for the entire
system. The purpose of the separate profit and loss statements for each part of
the system shall be to bring each part of the system to a profitable operating
level. It is the goal of the utility system and the City Council to bring each
component of the system into a profit position in a five year period unless, of
course, that component is already profitable.
(Ord. passed 3-15-93)
§ 63.21 PROFIT AND LOSS SUMMARY.
   (A)   A profit and loss summary shall be prepared by or on behalf of the
Commission for the June 30, 1993 audit period which will indicate if each
component is profitable. Each such component that is not profitable will have
an automatic rate increase. The amount of the rate increase will be determined
by the amount of additional revenue necessary to make that component profitable
multiplied by 20%.
      (1)   The June 30, 1994 audit period will go through the same process.
The rate increase for the unprofitable component(s) will be the amount
necessary to make them profitable multiplied by 25%.
      (2)   The June 30, 1995 audit period will go through the same process.
The rate increase for the unprofitable component(s) will be the amount
necessary to make them profitable multiplied by 33%.
      (3)   The June 30, 1996 audit period will go through the same process.
The rate increase for the unprofitable component(s) will be the amount
necessary to make them profitable multiplied by 50%.
      (4)   The June 30, 1997 audit period will go through the same process.
The rate increase for the unprofitable component(s) will be the amount
necessary to make them profitable multiplied by 100%.
      (5)   Thereafter, there will be an automatic annual rate increase by the
water component and the sewer component by the greater of:
         (a)   Amount necessary to be profitable, or
         (b)   Wholesale Price Index (or the successor thereof).
   (B)   All rate increases will take effect no later than August 1, following
the end of the June 30 fiscal year.
   (C)   The profit and loss on which the rate increase will be based does not
have to be audited.
   (D)   The rate increase may be across the board or graduated by class of
uses.
(Ord. passed 3-15-93)
§ 63.22 INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE AND TESTING OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Duties and responsibilities of the Utilities Commission. It shall be
the duty and responsibility of the Utilities Commission of the city, its agents
and employees to internally maintain fire hydrants for the use of the Fire
Department of the city; including, but not limited to, installing the hydrants,
maintaining their internal mechanisms, and servicing them.
   (B)   Testing of hydrants. Each hydrant owned and maintained by the city
shall be flow tested by the Fire Department every second April and October and
inspected each April and October of the year pursuant to standards generally
accepted, and a report of the results of such test shall be recorded and kept
as part of the records held by the Fire Department. The results shall be
submitted to the Utilities Commission for any required internal maintenance.
   (C)   Inventory of hydrants. The hydrants belonging to the city shall be
numbered with a number plainly visible and a list of hydrants, their location
and number shall be annually submitted to the Fire Chief.
   (D)   No compensation for hydrant maintenance. The General Fund of the city
shall not be charged with any fees for any fire or water hydrant that is a part
of the city water transmission system, with the exception of outsourced labor
and supplies required for external maintenance.
   (E)   Subdivision developers to install water transmission lines. The
Utilities Commission of the city shall have authority to require by regulation
that developers of subdivisions within the city service area install water
transmission lines according to the Commission specifications and may require
the installation of acceptable fire hydrants.
   (F)   External maintenance. The external appearance of the fire hydrants
owned by the city shall be maintained by the city. Required external
maintenance shall be outsourced for repair as needed. Neither the Fire
Department nor the Utilities Commission shall be specifically designated the
duty to maintain the external appearance of the fire hydrants owned by the
city.
(Ord. passed 5-17-76; Am. Ord. 2023-18, passed 7-3-23)
§ 63.23 UNIFIED UTILITY BILLS; PROCEDURE TO DISCONNECT FOR NON-PAYMENT.
   (A)   The billing for solid waste collection service and water, sewer and/or
gas utility services shall be consolidated and itemized on a single periodic
billing by the Utilities Commission.
   (B)   Non-payment of any portion of the services billed on the consolidated
billing shall constitute delinquency in the payment of the entire consolidated
billing by the person or entity responsible for such payment who applied for
the services and the owner of the real property and shall result in the
termination of all utility services provided by the city until the delinquency
is paid in full or an acceptable written repayment agreement is obtained
pursuant to the terms of utility disconnection policy established by the
Utilities Commission. Upon services being disconnected the unpaid portion of
the services billed shall constitute a lien on the real property of the owner
until paid in full.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 6-7-04; Am. Ord. 2024-30, passed 12-2-24)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE
         
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Posting of signs and signals where necessary
   
70.16   Signal legends
   
70.17   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.18   Obedience to signals
   
70.19   Interference with signals
   
70.20   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.21   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.22   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   General penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official
business, and ambulances or other emergency vehicles on an authorized emergency
run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   FUNERAL PROCESSION. Two (2) or more vehicles accompanying the body of a
deceased person when each vehicle has its headlights on or is displaying a
pennant attached in such a manner as to be clearly visible to approaching
traffic.
(KRS 189.378(1))
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police, Legislative Body, or designee.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Includes all agencies for the transportation of persons or property
over or upon the public highways of the Commonwealth and all vehicles passing
over or upon the highways. MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes all vehicles, as defined
above except, road rollers; road graders; farm tractors; vehicles on which
power shovels are mounted; construction equipment customarily used only on the
site of construction and which is not practical for the transportation of
persons or property upon the highways; vehicles that travel exclusively upon
rails; vehicles propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires while
being operated within any municipality or where the vehicles do not travel more
than five (5) miles beyond the city limits of any municipality; and vehicle
propelled by muscular power.
(KRS 189.010(19))
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unalwful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or anya other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as
he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks. If these
temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the
City Clerk/Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 POSTING OF SIGNS AND SIGNALS WHERE NECESSARY.
   (A)   Stop or yield shall be posted on such streets at any intersection the
legislative body shall determine is necessary for proper traffic control.
   (B)   Standard electric traffic signals, with three colors on a side, or
with red facing one street and yellow facing the intersecting street, or with
red facing one street and red facing the intersecting street shall be erected
at such street intersections as the legislative body shall determine to be
necessary for proper traffic control.
(Ord. passed 4-5-82)
§ 70.16 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words "Go," "Caution," or "Stop," or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or "Go": Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or "Caution" when shown following the green or
"Go" signal: Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or "Stop": Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or "Go" is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing yellow alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall
reduce its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by
such signal.
   (F)   "Yield Right-of-Way": Vehicular traffic facing the "Yield Right-of-
Way" sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No Vehicle facing a "Yield Right-of-Way"
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights: When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing yellow lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing yellow lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.17 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state and federal specifications.
§ 70.18 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
   (C)   All vehicular traffic shall obey the traffic signs and signals.
(Ord. passed 4-5-82)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.20 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.22 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code where no other penalty
is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U-turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limits
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
   
71.28   Load limits
   71.29   Securing of loads
Funeral Processions
   
71.30   Funeral processions
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
(Ord. passed 4-5-82)
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in such distinctive
manner as to indicate such importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U-TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching the roadway. The operator of
any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle on a public
street in the city, except an official vehicle during an emergency, at a speed
in excess of the speeds hereinafter set forth.
      (1)   The maximum speed on all streets or portions thereof designated as
residential by the legislative body shall be 25 miles per hour.
      (2)   The maximum speed on all streets or portions thereof designated as
thoroughfares by the legislative body shall be 35 miles per hour.
      (3)   When a street is designated as a school zone, the maximum speed in
any such school zone during the period of one hour before and one hour after
the actual school hours is 25 miles per hour.
      (4)   The maximum speed on all streets or portions thereof designated as
arterial by the legislative body shall be 45 miles per hour.
      (5)   The maximum speed on all streets or portions thereof designated as
hazardous shall be 15 miles per hour.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the speed limits set forth herein, no operator of a
vehicle upon a city street shall drive at a greater speed than is reasonable
and prudent, having due regard for the traffic and for the use and condition of
the street.
(Ord. passed 4-5-82) Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates division
(C) or (D) of this section shall be subject to revocation of his or her
operator’s license under KRS 186.500.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front the
emergency vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
stop and remain stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provisions of division (F) of this section shall apply to any
driver approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) above shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with at least than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to the
safety and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.28 LOAD LIMITS.
   "No Through Truck" signs shall be erected on such streets or portions
thereof as determined by order of the legislative body as deemed necessary, and
no person shall operate a truck having a license plate rating of over 36,000
pounds on such marked streets or portions thereof except for purposes of local
delivery and local transportation to points located on such designated streets.
(Ord. passed 4-5-82) Penalty, see §
71.99
FUNERAL PROCESSIONS
§ 71.30 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   A vehicle in a funeral procession has the right-of-way at an
intersection and may proceed through the intersection if the procession is led
by an escort vehicle displaying flashing yellow, red, or blue lights, except:
      (1)   When the right-of-way is required by an emergency vehicle as
defined by KRS 189.910;
      (2)   When vehicles in the procession are directed otherwise by a police
or safety officer; or
      (3)   When the vehicle is a train or locomotive.
   (B)   Before assuming the right-of-way, a person who drives a vehicle in a
funeral procession shall exercise due caution with regard to crossing traffic.
   (C)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not drive the vehicle between the vehicles of the funeral procession or
otherwise interfere with the progress of the procession, except when:
      (1)   The person is authorized to do so by a police or safety officer; or
      (2)   The vehicle is an emergency vehicle as defined by KRS 189.910.
   (D)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not a part of a funeral
procession shall not illuminate the vehicle headlights or engage in any other
act for the purpose of securing the right-of-way granted to funeral
processions.
   (E)   The escort vehicle, hearse, or other vehicles in a procession may be
equipped with flashing yellow lights for the purpose of notifying the general
public of the procession and gaining the right-of-way at intersections, or
signaling the end of a procession.
   (F)   Persons authorized to use flashing lights as defined in KRS 189.920
may use them while accompanying a funeral procession to warn traffic that a
procession is approaching or that it is in progress.
   (G)   When a funeral procession is in progress, a person driving a vehicle
not in the procession shall not pass or overtake any vehicle in the procession
unless:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a police or safety officer;
      (2)   The procession is on a street, road, or highway outside the
corporate limits of a city, town, or urban-county; or
      (3)   The procession is on an interstate highway or a state parkway.
(KRS 189.378)
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city, or CRUISING as defined herein.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire as defined in KRS 189.700.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in,aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities;
      (3)   A governmental agency acting with the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of fire
fighting equipment enroute to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit;
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he disapproves the application, he
shall mail to the applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief;
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation which violates any provision of §
71.05 shall be subject to a fine in accordance with the schedule of fines
established under KRS 189.394.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 189.993(8))
   (D)   Any person who violates §
71.30 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $250 or
imprisoned for not more than ninety (90) days, or both.
(KRS 189.378)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale; washing or repairing vehicle
   
72.12   Parking with permits for persons with disabilities
   
72.13   Loading zones
   
72.14   Designation of fire lanes; parking prohibited
   
72.15   Soliciting from vehicle parked in space prohibited
Impounding
   
72.20   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.21   Required notice to owner
   
72.22   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenue from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS 65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle, or so that the vehicle is not
entirely within the area designated by the lines or markings.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park such
vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the provisions
of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic sign or
signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02.
   (B)   On a sidewalk.
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway.
   (E)   Within an intersection or crosswalk.
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. This
does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during the performance of their official duties.
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, traffic stop,
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway.
   (H)   Within 10 feet of any fire hydrant. (Ord. Passed 4-5-82)
(KRS 189.450(5))
   (I)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(6)) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking or stopping is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas
are restricted to parking for persons with disabilities, appropriate signs
shall be erected giving notice thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs
or in conjunction therewith, the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent
to which parking is prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow
color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and public holidays and
on any street so marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in a ny one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §
72.21 et seq.
   Rotation towing services, see
Ch. 120
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict he
parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of the
route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §
71.40 through
71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespass
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee, or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.22.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner's
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B).
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such play or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE; WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a
motor vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
washing, greasing, painting or repairing such vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Ord. passed 4-5-82) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH PERMITS FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Signs bearing the legend "Disabled Person's Parking Only" shall be
erected in such places as may from time to time be determined by order of the
legislative body, and no person shall park a vehicle in any place so designated
unless the vehicle parked in the restricted area shall bear a duly issued
disabled person's license plate or parking permit for persons with
disabilities.
(Ord. passed 12-19-83)
   (B)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for persons with disabilities, when operated by a
person with disabilities or when transporting a person with disabilities, may
be parked in a designated parking place for persons with disabilities, or when
parked in a metered parking space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or
when parked where any parking limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in
excess of the parking limit. The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone
for that period of time necessary to permit entrance or exit of the person with
disabilities to or from the parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than
30 minutes.
   (C)   This section shall not permit parking in a "no stopping" or "no
parking" zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 LOADING ZONES.
   "Loading Zone" signs shall be erected at such places along public streets in
front of business establishments and for such time as determined by order of
the legislative body; and no person shall use such area for any other purpose
during the time indicated on the sign. If no time is specified on the sign, it
shall mean between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
(Ord. passed 4-5-82) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 DESIGNATION OF FIRE LANES; PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to park a motor vehicle
or obstruct any part of a public passway or entrance to a building designated
by law or the Fire Chief as a "fire lane". Each such fire lane shall be
designated as such by a sign conspicuously posted by the Fire Department, the
Police Department or othe Department of Public Works of the city, upon the Fire
Chief certifying the same to the City Council and entered in the minutes of the
Council.
   (B)   Any vehicle parking in violated of division (A) of this section may,
in addition to the penalty provided in §
72.99, be towed away at the expense of the violator upon the order of any Fire
Department officer or any peace officer of the city.
(Ord. passed 10-3-77) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 SOLICITING FROM VEHICLE PARKED IN SPACE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall use any parking space regulated by this chapter to conduct a
business of selling or soliciting from the vehicle parked in the regulated
parking space.
(Ord. passed - -)
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle's release.
§ 72.21 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority, or private person or
business for any reason or when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority, or by private person or business, or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority, or by private person or business, the police, other authority,
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the State
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 and within
ten business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify
the registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license
number, and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of
the vehicle, and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor
vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) is placed in a garage or other
storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the notice
provided in division(A) by certified mail to the registered owner at the
address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined
in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of recovery of, or taking
possession of the motor vehicle. This notice shall contain the information as
to the make, model, license number, and identification number of the vehicle,
the location of the vehicle, and the amount of reasonable charges due on the
vehicle. When the owner of the facility fails to provide notice as provided
herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall forfeit all storage fees
accrued after ten business days from the date of tow. This division (B) shall
not apply to a tow lot or storage facility owned or operated by the city.
(KRS 376.275(1), (2))
§ 72.22 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles
in either a private capacity or for the city who has complied with the
notification requirements of KRS 281.928 shall have a lien on the motor vehicle
and its contents for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in
accordance with 281.926 and 281.932 as long as it remains in his or her
possession.
   (B)   If after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with 281.926 and 281.932 have not been paid, the motor
vehicle and its contents may be sold to pay the charges after the owner and any
lienholder have been notified by certified mail at the addresses specified in
KRS 281.928(1) ten days prior to the time and place of the sale. If the
proceeds of the sale of any vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient
to satisfy accrued charges, the sale and collection of proceeds shall not
constitute a waiver or release of responsibility for payment of unpaid charges
by the owner or responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on the
vehicle under this division shall be subject to prior recorded liens, unless
released by any existing lienholder pursuant to division (C) of this section.
   (C)   (1)   A lienholder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail
within the first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928.
      (2)   The notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall include the make, model, license number, vehicle identification number,
owner's name and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the
vehicle, and state that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain
a new title free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (3)   If the certified letter required under this division is not sent
within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then only ten days of
storage may be charged.
      (4)   The lienholder has the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable
or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle.
      (5)   If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession of
the motor vehicle under this division within 45 days of notification the towing
company or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and
clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (7)   Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190 or 376.275(5).
   (D)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS 281.920
to 281.936 and 359.230 and this section, and the owner does not exercise the
right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this section within 45 days
of notification required under KRS 281.928, the towing company or storage
facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens,
excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1))
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he finds on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, he is authorized
to announce such prohibition, to become effective at a time specified by him.
After the effective time of such prohibition no person shall park any vehicle
or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a
fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00
a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city official has not
announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be
prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route
may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The prohibition of
parking announced by the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until he announces
the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in which the prohibition of
parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he is authorized to declare the termination of the
emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement. If such
announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be
repeated between those hours.
§ 72.37 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city shall
be guilty of a violation and shall be fined in an amount not less than $20, nor
more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1))
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE
Section
Bicycles, Motorcycles and Motorized Scooters
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Passing of bicycles by motor vehicles
   
73.03   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
Roller Skating, Skateboarding and the like
   
73.10   Definitions
   
73.11   Rules and regulations
   
73.12   Parental responsibility
   
73.13   Clinging to vehicles
Golf Carts
   
73.20   Operation of golf carts on designated city streets
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parks; prohibiting vehicles in certain parts of, see
Ch. 95
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORIZED SCOOTERS
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey all traffic signs, signals
and laws applicable to motor vehicles.
   (B)   Bicycles shall be operated on the streets as near to the right hand
curb or edge as practicable.
(Ord. passed 4-5-82)
   (C)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (D)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (E)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 PASSING OF BICYCLES BY MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not overtake and pass a bicycle unless
it can be done with reasonable safety, maintaining a space of not less than
five feet between the bicycle and motor vehicle.
(Ord. passed 4-5-82) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
ROLLER SKATING, SKATEBOARDING AND THE LIKE
§ 73.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   COASTER or COASTER SLED. A footboard mounted upon two or more wheels and
controlled by an upright steering handle. This device is propelled by the user
in usually an upright position.
   MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTER.  A device with no more than two ten-inch or smaller
diameter wheels that has handlebars, is designed to be stood or sat upon by the
operator, and is powered by an internal combustion engine or electric motor
that is capable of propelling the device with or without human propulsion.
   NON-MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTER.  A device with no more than two ten-inch or
smaller diameter wheels that has handlebars, is designed to be stood or sat
upon by the operator, and is propelled with human propulsion.
   NUISANCE. An activity which:
      (1)   Threatens injury to person or property;
      (2)   Creates an obstruction or presents a hazard to the free use of the
public or private property by pedestrians or motorists; or
      (3)   Generates loud or unreasonable noise.
   RIDING A SKATEBOARD. Standing with one or both feet touching the skateboard,
crouching, sitting or lying upon the skateboard while it is in motion.
   ROLLER SKATES.  Any attached footwear or device which may be attached to the
foot or footwear to which wheels are attached and such wheels may be used by
the wearer in moving, including in-line skates known as roller blades. The
definition of these terms shall include a single roller skate, or parts
thereof, used by the wearer in moving.
   SKATEBOARD or SKATEBOARDS. Includes any board of any material which has
wheels attached to it where such wheels may be used for movement or propulsion.
   TO OPERATE IN A NEGLIGENT MANNER. The operation of one or more of the above
described devices without reasonable regard for the safety of the operator,
other persons or property in such a manner as to endanger or be likely to
endanger any person or property. Examples of operating in a negligent manner
include, but are not limited to, failure to obey all traffic-control devices,
failure to yield right-of-way to pedestrians and/or vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 10-4-04)
§ 73.11 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be prohibited and unlawful for any person to operate roller
skates, inline skates, skate boards, coaster sleds, motorized foot scooters and
nonmotorized scooters on any street within the city limits of the city.
   (B)   No person riding upon roller skates, in-line skates, skate boards,
coaster sleds, motorized foot scooters and non-motorized scooters shall go upon
any roadway or sidewalk or vehicular parking area open to the general public,
in such a manner as to endanger or be likely to endanger the safety of the
rider, pedestrians or property. No person riding such shall restrict the flow
of vehicle traffic in any manner whatsoever.
   (C)   No person riding upon roller skates, in-line skates, skate boards,
coaster sleds, motorized foot scooters and non-motorized scooters shall operate
same in a negligent manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any
person or property but shall be operated with reasonable regard for the safety
of the operator, other persons and property.
   (D)   No person riding upon roller skates, in-line skates, skateboards,
coaster sleds, motorized foot scooters and non-motorized scooters shall create
a nuisance as defined in §
73.10.
   (E)   Whenever any person is riding roller skates, in-line skates, skate
boards, coaster sleds, motorized foot scooters and non-motorized scooters, such
person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible
signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian so as not to endanger the
safety of the pedestrian.
   (F)   Any person riding upon roller skates, in-line skates, skate boards,
coaster sleds, motorized foot scooters and non-motorized scooters shall not
attach the same or himself to any moving vehicle upon any roadway.
   (G)   Any person operating roller skates, in-line skates, skate boards,
coaster sleds, motorized foot scooters and non-motorized scooters shall obey
the instructions of official traffic control signals at street crossings, signs
and other control devices applicable, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   (H)   No person shall operate roller skates, in-line skates, skate boards,
coaster sleds, motorized foot scooters and non-motorized scooters upon a
sidewalk or other area during the hours between a half hour after sunset and
half hour before sunrise without wearing a reflective device on both the front
and back of the rider.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 10-4-04) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.12 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for every parent, guardian, or other adult person
having the care and custody of any minor child under 18 years of age to
knowingly permit such a minor child to violate this chapter. Any parent or
guardian or adult person having the care and custody of any minor child under
18 years of age who authorizes or knowingly permits such child to violate any
provisions shall be guilty of a violation.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 10-4-04) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.13 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.20 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON DESIGNATED CITY STREETS.
   The City of Leitchfield hereby adopts the provisions of KRS 189.286 as
follows:
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      GOLF CART. Any self-propelled vehicle that:
         (a)   Is designated for the transportation of players or maintaining
the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
         (b)   Has a minimum of four (4) wheels;
         (c)   Is designated to operate at a speed of not more than thirty-five
(35) miles per hour;
         (d)   Is designated to carry not more than six (6) persons, including
the driver;
         (e)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of two-thousand five-hundred
(2,500) pounds;
         (f)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of one-thousand two-hundred
(1,200) pounds; and
         (g)   Meets the federal motor vehicle safety standards for low-speed
vehicles set forth in 49 C.F.R. Sec. 571.500.
      LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A city, county, charter county government, urban-county
government, consolidated local government, unified local government, or special
district.
   (B)   Each low speed vehicle shall be equipped with:
      (1)   Head lights;
      (2)   Front and rear turn signal lamps;
      (3)   Tail lights;
      (4)   Brake lights;
      (5)   Reflex reflectors: one red on each side as far to the rear as
practicable, and one red on the rear;
      (6)   A exterior mirror mounted on the driver's side of the vehicle and
either an exterior mirror mounted on the passenger's side of the vehicle or an
interior mirror;
      (7)   Parking brake;
      (8)   A windshield that conforms to the Federal motor vehicle safety
standard on glazing (49 C.F.R. 571.205);
      (9)   Seatbelt assembly that conforms to the federal motor vehicle safety
standard provided in 49 C.F.R. § 571.209 for each designated seating position;
      (10)   Has a vehicle identification number (VIN); and
      (11)   A horn that meets the requirements of KRS 189.080, which requires
every motor vehicle when in use on a highway to be equipped with a horn or
other device capable of making an abrupt sound sufficiently loud enough to be
heard from a distance of at least two hundred (200) feet under all ordinary
traffic conditions.
   (C)   The governing body of a local government may authorize and regulate
the operation of a golf cart on any public roadway that is open for golf cart
use.
   (D)   An ordinance created under division (C) of this section shall require
that a golf cart operated on a designated public roadway:
      (1)   Be issued a sticker or permit for the golf cart by the City of
Leitchfield. The permit fee under this division shall not exceed twenty-five
dollars ($25.00). The permit and required fee shall be issued and due once per
calendar year;
      (2)   Display or have readily available a sticker or permit that
identifies that the golf cart is allowed to be operated on specific roadways
within the local government; and
      (3)   Be inspected by a certified inspector designated by the county
sheriff and certified through the Department of Vehicle Regulation to ensure
that the golf cart complies with the requirements of this section. The
inspection fee under this division shall not exceed five dollars ($5.00), with
an additional fee not to exceed ten dollars ($10.00) per trip charged if it
becomes necessary for the certified inspector to travel to the site of the golf
cart rather than having the golf cart brought to the sheriff’s inspection area.
   (E)   A person may operate a golf cart on a public roadway pursuant to
division (C) of this section, if:
      (1)   The posted speed limit of the designated public roadway is thirty-
five (35) miles per hour or less;
      (2)   The operator of the golf cart does not cross a roadway at an
intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed limit of more
than thirty-five (35) miles per hour unless there is a traffic control signal
being used;
      (3)   The operator has a valid operator's license in his or her
possession;
      (4)   The golf cart is being operated between sunrise and sunset; and
      (5)   The golf cart displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance
with KRS 189.820.
   (F)   A golf cart operating on a public roadway under division (C) of this
section shall be insured in compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or
operator, and the proof of liability insurance shall be inside the golf cart at
all times of operation on a public roadway.
   (G)   Any person operating on a public roadway under the provisions of this
section shall be subject to the traffic regulations of KRS Chapter 189.
   (H)   A golf cart operating on a public roadway designated by a local
government under division (C) of this section is not considered to be a motor
vehicle and is exempt from:
      (1)   Title requirements of KRS 183.020;
      (2)   Vehicle registration requirements of KRS 186.050; and
      (3)   Emissions compliance certificates pursuant to KRS 224.20-750.
   (I)   A local government may adopt more stringent local ordinances governing
golf cart safety equipment and operation than specified in this section.
   (J)   The Transportation Cabinet may prohibit the operation of a golf cart
on public roadway designated under division (C) of this section that crosses a
state maintained highway under its jurisdiction if it determines that such
prohibition is necessary in the interest of public safety.
   (K)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a golf cart that is
not used on a public roadway except to cross a roadway while following a golf
cart path on a golf course.
   (L)   The City of Leitchfield, Kentucky hereby designates that golf carts
may be operated on all streets and rights-of-way within the city's
jurisdiction, with the exception of any four (4) lane highways, city sidewalks,
or any city street with speed limit in excess of thirty-five (35) miles per
hour.
   (M)   Operators and/or owners of golf carts within the city's jurisdiction
are subject to the regulations and requirements of KRS 189.286 as set forth
above in divisions (A) through (K).
(Ord. 2019-08, passed 5-20-19; Am. Ord. 2020-05, passed 4-20-20)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §
73.01 et seq. shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not more than
$50.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
73.11 et seq. shall be guilty of a violation and shall be punished by the
imposition of a monetary penalty of not more than $100.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 10-4-04)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   One-way streets
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following streets are designated as one-way in the directions indicated.
 
Street         Location                             Direction Ord. No. Date
               From its intersection with West
Henniger Drive Market Street, north to its          North     —      9-17-73
               intersection with West Walnut Street
Kiper Drive    From Oller Street to Kelly Street    North
Layman Drive   Between West Main and West Market    South     —      —
               Streets
 
Penalty, see §
71.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited
   
II.   Parking time limited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to
park any vehicle on the following streets or areas in the city.
 
Street or Area              Location                  Side Ord. No. Date
Claggett Drive (on the      Between West Chestnut and —  —      9-18-61
street right-of-way)        West White Oak Streets
South Main Street*          At the entrance of        West —      11-7-77
                            Montgomery Drugs
Between E. Lake Drive north —                       —  —      11-19-62
to Mill Street
Immediately in front of and
adjacent to the vehicle     —                       —  —      11-7-77
entrance of the fire
department
* Except emergency vehicles
 
Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING TIME LIMITED.
   Except on Sundays and holidays, it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for
a longer consecutive period of time than that indicated between the hours of 8:
00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on the following streets or portions thereof.
 
Street               Location                     Time Limit Ord. No. Date
East Main Street     Between Clinton Street and   2 hours    —      9-4-78
                     Public Square
North English Street Between West Walnut and West 2 hours    —      9-4-78
                     Main Streets
North Main Street    Between Walnut Street and    2 hours    —      9-4-78
                     Public Square
South Main Street    Between Market Street and    2 hours    —      9-4-78
                     Public Square
West Main Street     Between Claggett Drive and   2 hours    —      9-4-78
                     Public Square
 
Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   FAIR HOUSING
         
92.   NUISANCES
         
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
         
94.   LITTERING
         
95.   PARKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
Dogs and Cats
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   [Reserved]
   
90.17   Animals running at large; damage to person or property
   
90.18   Noise disturbance
   
90.19   Impoundment; euthanizing of diseased, suffering animals
   
90.20   Reclaiming impounded animal
   
90.21   Adoption of animal; fee; vaccination required
   
90.22   Interference with agents performing permitted functions
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon or enclosure
without the consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in §
90.03 in causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not
limited to being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal
is caused to fight for pleasure or profit) mutilation, beating, torturing any
animal other than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food,
drink, space, or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This section shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with U.S. Department of Agriculture
under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws governing animal
research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the Board of Agriculture may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or
killed, any animal found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or
appearing to be injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful
purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him or
her to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or
his or her agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be
abandoned and may be turned over to the nearest humane society, or animal
shelter or disposed of as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100)
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. A dog or cat.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A facility designated or recognized by the city for the
purpose of impounding and caring for animals.
   AT LARGE. A dog or cat which is off the property of the owner and not under
restraint.
   CAT. Any domestic feline six (6) months of age or older.
   DOG. Any domestic canine six (6) months of age or older.
   LICENSING AUTHORITY. The City of Leitchfield.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property in the dog or cat and every
person who keeps or harbors the dog or cat or has it in his care, or permits it
to remain on or about premises owned or occupied by him.
   RESTRAINT. This term means that the dog or cat is within the real property
limits of its owner or secured by a leash or lead or is otherwise under the
direct control of its owner.
(Ord. passed 5-15-89; Am. Ord. 2019-04, passed 2-18-19)
§ 90.16 [RESERVED].
§ 90.17 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE; DAMAGE TO PERSON OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to allow any dog or cat, whether or not licensed
by any appropriate authority, to run at large. It shall be conclusive proof
that the animal is allowed to run at large if it is found upon a public way or
on the real property of one who is not the owner, without being under
restraint.
   (B)   Any person who sustains loss or damages to person or property by
reason of an animal unlawfully running at large shall be permitted to recover
damages in a civil action as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 5-15-89; Am. Ord. 2019-04, passed 2-18-19) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the peace
by loud noises at any time of the day or night.
(Ord. passed 5-15-89; Am. Ord. 2019-04, passed 2-18-19) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 IMPOUNDMENT; EUTHANIZING OF DISEASED, SUFFERING ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to treat any animal in a cruel or inhumane
manner, including but not limited to failing to provide adequate heat, shade,
bedding, ventilation, shelter or food and water consistent with the normal
requirements and feeding habits of the animal’s size, species, and breed. A dog
may be restrained by a chain or tether provided that the chain or tether is a
reasonable length and weight to the animals’ size and breed.
   (B)   Any dog, cat or other animal species found running at large may be
impounded by the city in an animal shelter and confined therein. In the case of
animals whose owners can readily be identified, notice shall be given by
appropriate means that the animal has been impounded. Impounded animals shall
be retained at the animal shelter for a minimum of five (5) days, pending the
claiming thereof by their proper owners. In the event that such detained strays
are not so claimed, the animals may be either placed for adoption, or sent to
an approved rescue organization, at the discretion of the city.
   (C)   In the event it is determined that such strays are diseased or
suffering or otherwise unsuitable for maintenance, the said strays may be
euthanized without being detained for any such reasonable period of time.
(Ord. passed 5-15-89; Am. Ord. 2019-04, passed 2-18-19)
§ 90.20 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   Any animal impounded may be redeemed by the owner thereof or his agent prior
to the animal's adoption or destruction upon the presentation of all licensing
requirements and proof of vaccination requirements set forth in §
90.21, and upon the payment of the impoundment and reclamation fee as
determined by the licensing authority plus five dollars ($5.00) for each day
the animal was boarded by the city, which fees shall be in the nature of
reimbursement for actual expense incurred by the city and shall not be in lieu
of any fine, penalty or license fee as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. passed 5-15-89; Am. Ord. 2019-04, passed 2-18-19)
§ 90.21 ADOPTION OF ANIMAL; FEE; VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   An adoption fee of eighty-five dollars ($85.00) for dogs and fifty dollars
($50.00) for cats shall be assessed at the time of adoption which fee shall be
in the nature of reimbursement for actual expense incurred by the city. No dog
or cat shall be released for adoption as a pet without being properly
vaccinated as required by KRS Chapter 258 and licensed, which charges are in
addition to the adoption fee herein imposed.
(Ord. passed 5-15-89; Am. Ord. 2019-04, passed 2-18-19) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 INTERFERENCE WITH AGENTS PERFORMING PERMITTED FUNCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or molest any
agent of the city in the performance of any function herein permitted in order
to accomplish the purposes of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-15-89; Am. Ord. 2019-04, passed 2-18-19) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person who violates any proscription of requirement of §§
90.15 et seq. shall be guilty of a violation. The City of Leitchfield Code
Enforcement Board or a court of proper jurisdiction shall enforce civil
compliance with that subchapter.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500. (KRS 436.600)
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 11-15-21)
CHAPTER 91: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   City policy
   
91.03   Application of regulations
   
91.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
91.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
91.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
91.07   Exemption
   
91.08   Administration
   
91.09   Education and conciliation
   
91.10   Enforcement
   
91.11   Enforcement by private persons
   
91.12   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
91.13   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
91.04,
91.05, or
91.06.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships,
registered limited liability partnerships, joint stock companies, and limited
liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. passed 9-19-83)
§ 91.02 CITY POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the city.
(Ord. passed 9-19-83)
§ 91.03 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below and §
91.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
apply to all dwellings.
   (B)   Provided, however, that nothing in §
91.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, provided that:
         (a)   Such private individual owner does not own more than three such
single-family houses at any one time;
         (b)   In the case of the sale of any such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in such house at the time of such sale or
who was not the most recent resident of such house prior to such sale, the
exemption granted by this division shall apply only with respect to one such
sale within any 24-month period;
         (c)   Such bona fide private individual owner does not own any
interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of, more than three such single-family houses at any
one time.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by nor more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purpose of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as principal
in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or
any interest therein;
      (2)   He has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein;
      (3)   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy
by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. passed 9-19-83)
§ 91.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
91.03, and except as exempted by §
91.03(B) and
91.07, it shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion or national
origin.
   (B)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or privileges
of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or facilities
in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, or national origin.
   (C)   Make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling, that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion or national origin, or an intention to make any such
preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion or national
origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or rental when
such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any
dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into the
neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion or
national origin.
(Ord. passed 9-19-83) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company, or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise, whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance because of the race, color, religion or national origin of such
person, or of any person associated with him in connection with such loan or
other financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other financial
assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants or
occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other
financial assistance is to be made or given. Nothing contained in this section
shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exception contained in §
91.03(B).
(Ord. passed 9-19-83) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the terms or conditions
of such access, membership or participation, on account of race, color,
religion or national origin.
(Ord. passed 9-19-83) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association
or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised
or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association
or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, color or national origin. Nothing in
this chapter shall prohibit a private club, not in fact open to the public,
which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which
it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the
rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving preference
to its members.
(Ord. passed 9-19-83)
§ 91.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be vested in the Chief Executive Officer of the city.
   (B)   The Chief Executive Officer may delegate any of these functions,
duties and powers to employees of the city or to boards of such employees.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner to further
affirmatively the purposes of this chapter, and shall cooperate with the Chief
Executive Officer to further such purposes.
(Ord. passed 9-19-83)
§ 91.09 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Chief Executive Officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this chapter. He shall call conferences of persons in the housing
industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of
this chapter and his suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor
with their advice to establish programs of voluntary compliance and
enforcement.
(Ord. passed 9-19-83)
§ 91.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter "person
aggrieved") may file a complaint with the Chief Executive Officer. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as
the Chief Executive Officer requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
Chief Executive Officer shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or
persons who allegedly committed or are about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, or
within 30 days after the expiration of any period of reference under division
(C) below, the Chief Executive Officer shall investigate the complaint and give
notice in writing to the person aggrieved whether he intends to resolve it. If
the Chief Executive Officer decides to resolve the complaints, he shall proceed
to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing practice by
informal methods of conference, conciliation and persuasion. Nothing said or
done in the course of such informal endeavors may be made public or used as
evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this chapter without the written
consent of the persons concerned.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him and with the leave of the Chief Executive Officer, which shall be
granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his answer
at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Chief Executive
Officer, the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days
thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development. The Chief Executive Officer will assist in this filing.
   (D)   If the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30
days hereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint.
If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is
about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such
practice or order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Chief Executive Officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain
voluntary compliance.
(Ord. passed 9-19-83) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted by §§
91.03 through
91.06 may be enforced by civil actions in the state or local courts of general
jurisdiction having proper venue. A civil action shall be commenced within 180
days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided,
however, that the court may continue such civil case brought pursuant to this
section or §
91.10 (D) from time to time before bringing it to trial, if the court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the Chief Executive Officer are likely to
result in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice
complained of in the complaint made to the Chief Executive Officer, and which
practice forms the basis for the action in court. Any sale, encumbrance or
rental consummated prior to the issuance of any court order issued under the
authority of this ordinance, and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer
or tenant without actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint
or civil action under the provisions of this chapter shall not be affected.
   (B)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the case of
a prevailing plaintiff.
(Ord. passed 9-19-83)
§ 91.12 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected by §§
91.03 through 91.06. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Ord. passed 9-19-83) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   No person shall, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or
threat of force, willfully injure, intimidate or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion or national origin and
because he is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or
contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or
occupation of any dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service,
organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion or national origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations
or facilities described in division (A) above;
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion or
national origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech
or peaceful assembly, opposing any denial of the opportunity to so participate.
(Ord. passed 9-19-83) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $500 for each offense or violation.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
91.13 shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more than one
year, or both fined and imprisoned.
(Ord. passed 9-19-83)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Roller Skating, Skateboarding and the like, see §§
73.10 et seq.
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   IMMINENT DANGER.  A condition which could cause serious or life-threatening
injury or death to any time.
(KRS 381.770)
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten (10) consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NUISANCE. Public nuisance.
(Ord. passed 10-1-84)
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
(Am. Ord. 2019-06, passed 4-1-19)
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
(Ord. passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 2019-06, passed 4-1-19) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon. The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb or property of, or cause hurt, damage or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another.
   (C)   Noxious odors or smoke. Emission into the surrounding atmosphere of
odor, dust, smoke or other matter which renders ordinary use or physical
occupation of other property in the vicinity uncomfortable or impossible.
   (D)   Noise. Emission of noise which is noxious enough to destroy the
enjoyment of dwellings or other uses of property in the vicinity by interfering
with the ordinary comforts of human existence.
   (E)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of 12 inches or more. The existence of thistles, burdock, jimson weeds,
ragweeds, milkweeds, poison ivy, poison oak, iron weeds, and all other noxious
weeds and rank vegetation. Excepted is property used for agricultural purposes.
   (F)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (G)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which creates
a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
   (H)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks and drainage. The
growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interferes with
the use, construction or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes injury to
streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage.
   (I)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal's pen, yard, lot, or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors.
   (J)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of two or more motor
vehicles in an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use,
automobile parts, or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises
authorized by the city for such purposes.
(Ord. passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 2014-10,
passed 11-3-14; Am. Ord. 2019-06, passed 4-1-19) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Public Works Director or other responsible
officer designated by the legislative body to serve or cause to be served a
notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which there is kept or
maintained any nuisance in violation of the provisions of this chapter and to
demand the abatement of the nuisance within five days unless the nuisance
constitutes an immediate danger to the health and well being of the community.
If such danger is present, the nuisance shall be abated within 24 hours of
notice. Notice shall be served upon persons by certified mail, but if the
whereabouts of the person is unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Director
in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the Director shall make an affidavit
to that effect, and the serving of notice may be made by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation for two consecutive days. A copy of the notice
shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by the notice
and it shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk.
   (B)   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five days,
the city may proceed to abate the nuisance, keeping an account of the expense
of the abatement, and the expense shall be charged and paid by the owner or
occupant.
   (C)   Charges for nuisance abatement shall be a lien upon the premises
whenever a bill for charges remains unpaid for 60 days after it has been
claimed. This statement shall contain a legal description of the premises, the
expenses and costs incurred, the date the nuisance was abated, and a notice
that the city claims a lien for this amount. Notice of lien claim shall be
mailed to the owner of the premises if his address is known. However, failure
to record the lien claim or to mail the notice, or the failure of the owner to
receive the notice, shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien for
charges as provided in division (D) below.
   (D)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid nuisance abatement charges may
be sold for nonpayment and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the
charges after deducting costs as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory
liens. This foreclosure shall be in equity in the name of the city.
   (E)   The City Attorney is authorized to institute such proceedings in the
name of the city, in any court having jurisdiction over the matter, against any
property for which the bill has remained unpaid 60 days after it has been
rendered.
   (F)   The lien created shall take precedence over all other subsequent
liens, except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced
by judicial proceeding. In addition to this remedy or any other remedy
authorized by law, the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached
pursuant to this section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien,
including all interest, civil penalties, and other charges and the city may
bring a civil action against the owner and shall have the same remedies as
provided for the recovery of a debt owed.
   (G)   If an owner, occupant or person having control or management of land
relative to which the city has issued a notice of violation for maintaining a
nuisance wishes to deny the city's determination that a nuisance violation
exists, the person aggrieved may file an answer stating the grounds for such
denial within five days of receipt of the notice of violation from the city.
Such answer shall be filed with the City Clerk at City Hall during regular
business hours.
      (1)   The failure to timely file such an answer constitutes an admission
of the existence of the nuisance described in the notice of violation.
      (2)   Upon receipt by the city of an answer denying the existence of a
nuisance, the city shall notify the answering party that a hearing will be held
at City Hall. The notice shall state the time and date of the scheduled
hearing, said date to be not less than ten nor more than 30 days from the date
the city receives the answer from the answering party.
      (3)   The hearing shall be held before the Hearing Officer who is the
Mayor or his designee. The answering party may give testimony and present
evidence at the hearing and the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law
shall not be controlling in hearing before the Hearing Office. At any such
hearing, the answering party shall have the right to be represented by counsel,
present relevant evidence, cross-examine witnesses and have the proceedings
recorded by a court reporter. Provided, however, that the aggrieved party and/
or any party in interest shall bear the expense of his or her attorney and/or
the court reporter.
      (4)   If after notice and hearing the Hearing Officer determines that no
nuisance violation exists, the notice of violation shall be dismissed.
      (5)   If after notice and hearing the Hearing Officer determines that a
nuisance violation exists, the notice of violation shall be sustained and the
abatement procedure herinabove described shall be implemented.
(Ord. passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 2011-08, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 2019-06,
passed 4-1-19)
Statutory reference:
   Abatement procedures, see KRS 381.770
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of
reasonable care ought to have become aware of.
(Ord. passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 2019-06, passed 4-1-19)
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City Council that a
nuisance exists and the City Council deems that there is an immediate threat to
the public health, safety, or welfare, the City Council may by majority vote
suspend the license of any person conducting business upon the premises where
the nuisance exists.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall cause notice of the suspension to be
served personally upon the licensee or at the premises where the nuisance
exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, the City Council may remove the
suspension upon such terms as it may direct.
(Am. Ord. 2019-06, passed 4-1-19)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
violation and shall be fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each offense. Each day's continued violation shall constitute a separate
offense. Civil enforcement of this chapter shall be by the City of Leitchfield
Code Enforcement Board or a court of appropriate jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 4-1-19; Am. Ord. 2021-16, passed 11-15-21)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.04   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.05   Destruction of fireworks
   
93.06   Ignition of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, FIREWORKS means any composition or
device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
“consumer fireworks”as defined in division (B) or “display” fireworks as
defined in division (D) and as set forth in the U.S. Department of
Transportation's (DOT) hazardous materials regulations.
      (1)   Exception number 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, COMMON FIREWORKS means
fireworks that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion, and comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product
Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of
these devices are limited as enumerated in this chapter. Some small devices
designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts 1500 and 1507, are classified as
division 1.4 explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and include
the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist a
metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least 1/2 inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams of the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
the total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel contain more than 200
grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term “mine” refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term “shell” refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A
mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The term “cake” refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quality of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high- density polyethylene (HDPE, or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, bust charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed 1 3/4 inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift charge in any
shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting
charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical
composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the shells in
the kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user lower a
shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fusing extending
out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then reloaded with
another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be capable of
firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the tube. Each
package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning label
requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICKNOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap.  Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper.  Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match.  Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load.  Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm.  Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means
pyrotechnic devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes,
but is not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130
milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40
grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the
limits for classification as consumer fireworks. Display fireworks are defined
by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts. 1500 and
1507, and are classified as class B explosives by the U.S. Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)   Items described in division (B)(1) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in divisions (B)(2), (B)(3), and (D) are not legal
for retail sale but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter
for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold
at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
   (F)   Age requirement. No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or
sell any consumer fireworks listed in KRS 227.702 to any person under eighteen
(18) years of age.
(227.715)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (3)   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A “competent display operator” is  also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (1) shall be issued only to a competent
display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This complement display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NEPA) 1123 Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least fifteen
(15) days in advance of the date of the display. After this privilege shall
have been granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the
display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this
subsection shall be transferable. For the purpose of this section, “public
display of fireworks” shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or
pyrotechnic materials before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this division.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to a person holding a display permit as
outlined in subsection (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present the
permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale, and use in emergency situations, of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
non-profit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling
at retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks
as defined in KRS 227.702 as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his agents, employees or
subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.05 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the state fire marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or "Display"
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The state fire marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the state fire
marshal, the state fire marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the state fire marshal's intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the state fire marshal's
intent. The state fire marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the state fire marshal, the state fire marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal's intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the state fire marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten (10) days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out
in division (A) shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
§ 93.06 IGNITION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   As used in this section, the term FIREWORKS, includes any
pyrotechnical device that is explosive or audible or an aerial device in
function when ignited as defined in KRS 227.702.
   (B)   Fireworks may only be used, ignited, fired or exploded between the
hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. within the city; provided, however, that the
ignition of fireworks is permitted between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and midnight
for the period of December 31 and January 1 of each year and on July 3, July 4
and on Memorial Day of each. year.
   (C)   The limitations set forth in division (B) shall not apply to events
sponsored by municipal, religious or civic groups to the extent sanctioned by
the city.
   (D)   All sales of fireworks shall comply with the provisions of KRS
227.715.
   (E)   Violation of this section shall be punished as a violation.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 8-22-17) Penalty, see §
93.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting such permit may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than
$1,000, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990 (4))
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 95: PARKS
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Prohibiting vehicles in certain areas within city parks
   
95.03   Hunting on city owned property prohibited
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Bicycles, Motorcycles, Roller Skates and the like, see
Ch. 73
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VEHICLE. Any device having wheels used for transporting people or goods,
including but not limited to bicycles, skateboards or roller skates, except for
wheel chairs and similar devices used for the transport of handicapped persons
and small children. Also excluded from the definition of VEHICLE are modalities
used by city employees during the conduct of maintenance operations within the
city parks.
(Ord. 2003-6, passed 5-19-03)
§ 95.02 PROHIBITING VEHICLES IN CERTAIN AREAS WITHIN CITY PARKS.
   The use of a vehicle is hereby prohibited in those areas of city parks which
are designated by the posting of signs as being for the use of pedestrians only
and/or prohibiting vehicles.
(Ord. 2003-6, passed 5-19-03)
§ 95.03 HUNTING ON CITY OWNED PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Hunting on any city owned real property is prohibited with the
exception of falconry which shall be allowed at Nut Park and the area known as
the Old Landfill on White Street. Hunting shall be defined as the activity of
killing a wild animal for food or sport. Killing of wild animals on city owned
property by way of gunshot, archery, gigging, trapping or falconry are hereby
prohibited with the exception stated previously. This section shall not
restrict the removal of vermin or other pests by city employees or by
contracted labor. This section does not prohibit fishing by license holders on
city owned property.
   (B)   A person found to be in violation of this section shall be cited by
any authorized law enforcement agency and enforced through the Code Enforcement
Board and shall be fined.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 3-18-24) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violators of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation and are
subject to a fine to be imposed by the Grayson District Court of up to $250 for
each offense.
   (B)   If a citation for a violation of §
95.03 is not contested by the person charged with the violation, the maximum
penalties below shall apply; however, the Code Enforcement Board may waive any
or all of a penalty for an uncontested violation, if in its discretion, the
Board determines that such waiver will promote compliance with §
95.03. The penalties listed below are for each day a violation continues,
beginning on the first day after the ending date of the correction period given
in the citation. A second offense is an offense that occurs within five years
of the determination by the Code Enforcement Board of a prior offense. All
others are those that occur within five years of the determination by the Code
Enforcement Board of two or more prior offenses.
 
1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
$75.00      $150.00     $300.00
 
(Ord. 2003-6, passed 5-19-03; Am. Ord. 2024-10, passed 3-18-24)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
         
111.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE
         
112.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
         
113.   JUNKYARDS
         
114.   QUARRY AND MINING OPERATIONS
         
115.   TRUCKS; LOADING AND UNLOADING
         
116.   FLEA MARKETS
         
117.   BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
         
118.   VEHICLE DEALERS
         
119.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
120.   TOWING SERVICES
         
121.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
         
122.   CANNABIS BUSINESS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
   
110.10   Disposition of funds
   
110.11   Schedule of fees
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the city without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the City Clerk/Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Clerk/Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner, or business
associate;
      (2)   His present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His place of residence for five years next preceding the date of
application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor;
      (7)   Such other information concerning the applicant and his business as
may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful knowingly to make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
City Clerk/Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the
city and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the City
Clerk/Treasurer and any other appropriate city official. If for any reason the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All license fees shall be due and payable on July 1 (or January 1) of
each year, or at the commencement of the business to be licensed.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises, the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked by the legislative body at any time for
conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time of issuance,
would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any misrepresentation of a
material fact in the application discovered after issuance of the license; for
violation of any provision of this chapter or other law or ordinance relating
to the operation of the business or enterprise for which the license has been
issued; or upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state, or municipal
law or ordinance involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The revocation shall become effective upon notice served upon the
licensee or posted upon the premises affected.
   (C)   As a preliminary to revocation, the legislative body may issue an
order suspending the license, which shall become effective immediately upon
service of written notice to the licensee. This notice shall specify the reason
for suspension, and may provide conditions under which reinstatement of the
license may be obtained. Upon compliance with these conditions within the time
specified, the license may be restored.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his license has been
revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee as the case may be, shall
within three business days have the right to appeal to the legislative body
from the denial, revocation, or suspension. Notice of appeal shall be filed in
writing with the City Clerk/Treasurer who shall fix the time and place for a
hearing which shall be held not later than one week thereafter. The City Clerk/
Treasurer shall notify the Mayor and all members of the legislative body of the
time and place of the hearing not less than 24 hours in advance thereof. A
majority of the legislative body members shall constitute a quorum to hear the
appeal. The appellant may appear and be heard in person or by counsel. If,
after hearing, a majority of the members of the legislative body present at the
meeting declare in favor of the applicant, the license shall be issued or fully
reinstated as the case may be; otherwise the order appealed from shall become
final.
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing and/or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
§ 110.10 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies due and collectable under the provisions of this chapter shall be
paid into the General Fund of the city.
§ 110.11 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The following fees or tax shall be paid by a person conducting or engaged in
the following business, occupation, or profession:
Business Fee
Business                                                               Fee
Candy retailers (Each person who sells candy at more than one site     $10.00
within the corporate limits of the city shall pay at each location.)
Coin machines, coin-operated amusement machines                        $10.00
Flea markets                                                           See §
                                                                       116.02
Ice cream retailers (Each person who sells ice cream at more than one
site within the corporate limits of the city shall pay at each         $10.00
location.)
Peddlers                                                               See §
                                                                       112.02
Soft drink retailers (Each person who sells soft drinks at more than
one site within the corporate limits of the city shall pay at each     $10.00
location.)
Tobacco retailers (Each person who sells tobacco at more than one site $10.00
within the corporate limits of the city shall pay at each location.)
Trucks in the business of loading and unloading                        See §
                                                                       118.01
 
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - ) (Ord. passed - -
; Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 6-17-68)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 111: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Occupational license application required
   
111.03   Occupational license tax payment required
   
111.04   Apportionment
   
111.05   Employers to withhold
   
111.06   Return required
   
111.07   Extensions
   
111.08   Refunds
   
111.09   Federal and city audit provisions
   
111.10   Information to remain confidential
   
111.11   Use of occupational license tax
   
111.12   Minimum and maximum liability
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include the usual activities of board trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations, or unions. BUSINESS shall not include funds, foundations,
corporations, or associations organized and operated for the exclusive and sole
purpose of religious, charitable, scientific, literary, educational, civic or
fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings, incomes or receipts of such
unit, group or association inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or
other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or any other
legal entity through which business is conducted.
   CITY. The City of Leitchfield, Kentucky.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions or any other form of remuneration
paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an employee, which are
required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and adjusted as
follows:
   (A)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under Section 401
(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
   (B)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare benefit,
fringe benefit or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or other payment
method which employees elect to reduce federal taxable compensation under the
Internal Revenue Code, including but not limited to Sections 125 and 132 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity's
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation , including an officer of a corporation and any
officer, employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any
political subdivision of a state, or any agency or instrumentality of any one
(1) or more of the above. A person classified as an independent contractor
under the Internal Revenue Code shall not be considered an employee.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
   (A)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
the term EMPLOYER means the person having control of the payment of such wages;
and
   (B)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident alien
individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation, not engaged in trade
or business within the United States, the term EMPLOYER means such person.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent's report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of twelve (12) months ending on the last
day of any month  other than December.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31,
2006, exclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than
amendments that extend the provisions in effect on December 31, 2006, that
would otherwise terminate.
   NET PROFIT. Gross income as defined in Section 61 of the Internal Revenue
Code minus all deductions from gross income allowed by Chapter 1 of the
Internal Revenue Code, and adjusted as follows:
   (A)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local tax
which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income and
which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, The District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or indirectly
is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or otherwise not
taxed.
   (C)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carry back or carry
forward allowed under Section 172 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   (D)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately as
required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that is
a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
   (E)   Exclude any amount that is exempt from state taxation by the Kentucky
Constitution or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United States.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or nonresident of the city.
Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a penalty
in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a partnership
or other form of unincorporated enterprise shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and directors
thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services
or property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any city of the home rule class, county, urban county, charter
county, consolidated local government, school district, special taxing district
or any other statutorily created entity with the authority to levy net profits,
gross receipts or occupational license taxes.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT. In case of a business entity having a payroll or sales
revenue only within the city means NET PROFIT as defined in this section.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT. In case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenue both within and without the city means NET PROFIT as defined in this
section, and as apportioned under §
111.04 of this chapter.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net income is computed.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 12-3-07; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 2019-
03, passed 2-18-19)
§ 111.02 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person and business entity engaged in any business of the city shall
be required to apply for and obtain an occupational license from the city
before the commencement of business or in the event of a change of business
status. Licensees are required to notify the city of any changes in address,
cessation of business, or any other changes which render the information
supplied to the city in the license application inaccurate.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 12-3-07; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 2019-
03, passed 2-18-19) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, every person or
business entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or business
entity that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue Service or
the Kentucky Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the city an
occupational license tax for the privilege of engaging in such activities
within the city. The occupational license tax shall be measured by one and two-
tenths percent (1.2%) of:
      (1)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work
done or services performed or rendered in the city by every resident and
nonresident who is an employee;
      (2)   The net profits from business conducted in the city by a resident
or nonresident business entity.
   (B)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not apply
to:
      (1)   Banks, or title insurance companies organized and doing business in
this state or any savings and loan association nor to compensation received by
members of the Kentucky National Guard for duty training or unit training nor
to precinct workers for election training or work at election booths.
      (2)   Public service corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the Kentucky Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominately non-
public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required to
pay a license fee on their net profits derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the city.
      (3)   Life insurance companies incorporated under the laws of and doing
business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky nor any profits, earnings, or
distributions of an investment fund which would qualify under KRS 154.20-250 to
154.20-284 to the extent any profits earnings or distributions would not be
taxable to an individual investor.
      (4)   Vendors who only participate in festivals or fairs sponsored by
non-profit organizations where said events do not exceed five (5) days.
      (5)   All rental income of any type or source is fully taxable for all
forms of ownership, except for an individual or single member LLC who owns two
(2) or less residential rental housing units; they are exempt from the
requirements of this chapter. A housing unit is defined as a single living
quarters (duplex = 2, apartment unit = 1). With ownership of three (3) or more
residential rental units inside the city limits, an individual or single member
LLC is presumed to be an operating business and is subject to this chapter and
all net profits are fully taxable.
   (C)   If not employed by another, the minimum sum of fifty dollars ($50.00)
shall be paid in advance as a license fee, the said sum to be credited against
any additional license fee due under the provisions of this chapter, said
minimum fee is to be paid no later than January 31 of each year and submitted
along with a business license application.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 12-3-07; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 2019-
03, passed 2-18-19) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, net profits shall
be apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For businesses entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one (1) tax district, by multiplying the net profits by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) of this
section, plus the sales tax factor, described in division (C) of this section,
and the denominator of which is two (2); and
      (2)   For businesses with sales revenue in more than one (1) tax
district, by multiplying the net profits by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) of this section.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business entity
for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual's
service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sale revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sales, lease, or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory, or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenues from the sale, lease or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease, or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity's activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity's business activity, if reasonable a
separate accounting and/or the exclusion of any one (1) or more of the factors
and/or the inclusion of one (1) or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity's activity in the city and/or the employment of
any other method to effectuate an equitable allocation and apportionment of
gross receipts.
   (E)   When compensation is paid for work done or services performed or
rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the license tax
shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable as a result
of work done or service performed or rendered within the city. The license tax
shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the compensation for work
performed or services rendered within the city bear to the total wages and
compensation paid for work performed or services rendered within the city bears
to the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the city to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayer's reported percentages under this section,
the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
   (F)   All partnerships, S corporations, and all other entities where income
is "passed through" to the owners are subject to this chapter. The occupational
license tax imposed in this chapter is assessed against income before it is
"passed through" these entities to the owners.
   (G)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the city.
   (H)   If any business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license tax shall be computed for purposes of this
chapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government and shall employ the same methods of accounting required for
federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 12-3-07; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 2019-
03, passed 2-18-19)
§ 111.05 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold from the compensation an occupational license tax
calculated under §
111.03. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the city in accordance with this
section.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city, the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period is
determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If th employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually on or before February 28 of each year complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the occupational
license tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this section shall be personally and individually liable, jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid or
payable to one (1) or more employees of the business entity, and neither the
corporate dissolution or withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor
cessation of holding any corporate office, shall discharge that liability;
provided that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each and
every person holdingthe corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became
obligated. No person shall be personally and individually liable under this
section unless such person had authority to collect, truthfully account for, or
pay over the tax imposed by this chapter at the time that the taxes imposed by
this chapter become or became due.
   (I)   Not withstanding divisions (G) and (H) of this section, every employee
receiving compensation in the city subject to the tax imposed under §
111.03 shall be personally liable for any amount due. In all cases where the
employer does not withhold the tax levied under this chapter from the employee,
such employee or employees shall be responsible for filing with the city each
quarter in the same manner as if they were the employer.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 12-3-07; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 2019-
03, passed 2-18-19) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license tax return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion of the
city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any business
entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business entity to
produce for inspection a copy of any statements and schedules in support
thereof that have not been previously filed. The city may also require copes of
reports of adjustments made by the federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to a occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules the city from time to time may
prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability of the business entity.
   (D)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 12-3-07; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 2019-
03, passed 2-18-19) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six (6) months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal
Revenue Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing
its return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for
payment of the occupational tax, requests the extension and pays the amount
properly estimated as tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business shall pay,
as part of the tax, an amount equal to twelve percent (12%) per annum simple
interest on the tax shown due on the return, but not previously paid, from the
time the tax was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the
city.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 12-3-07; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 2019-
03, passed 2-18-19)
§ 111.08 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
111.05, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer to the extent of
overpayment only if a written application for refund or credit is received by
the city from the employer within two (2) years from the date the overpayment
was made.
   (B)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to the city, the occupational license tax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file
for a refund within two (2) years of the date prescribed by law for the filing
of the return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient
to verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the
refund.
   (C)   Where there has been an overpayment of net profits tax upon business
levied under §
111.03, a refund or credit shall be made to any person or business entity to
the extent of overpayment only upon a written application for refund or credit
to the city within two (2) years from the date that overpayment was made.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 12-3-07; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 2019-
03, passed 2-18-19)
§ 111.09 FEDERAL AND CITY AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   As soon a practicable after each return is received, the city may
examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five (5) years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this section.
      (1)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
      (2)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit, or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of twenty-five percent (25%)
of the amount of net profit stated in the return, the additional tax may be
assessed at any time within six (6) years after the return was filed.
      (3)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly to
adjustment resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this section, or six (6) months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the federal
audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 12-3-07; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 2019-
03, passed 2-18-19)
§ 111.10 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of the city shall intentionally and
without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or her
of the affairs of any person, or information regarding tax schedules, returns,
or reports required to be filed with the city, or any information produced by a
hearing or investigation, insofar as the information may have to do with the
affairs of the person's business. This prohibition does not extend to
information required in prosecutions for making false reports or returns for
taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws, or in any way made a matter
of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing any taxpayer or the
taxpayer's properly authorized agent with information respecting his or her own
return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude any employee of the city
from testifying in any court, or from introducing as evidence returns or
reports filed with the city, in any action for violation of the city's tax laws
or in any action challenging the city's tax laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or his or her duly authorized agent and to the
Internal Revenue Service all such information and rights to inspect any of the
books and records of the city if the Commissioner of Revenue or the Internal
Revenue Service grants the city reciprocal rights to obtain similar
information. Provided, further, that the city may publish statistics based on
such information in such a manner as not to reveal data respecting net profits
or compensation of any person.
   (C)   In addition the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) of this section with any other taxing
entity, should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect
diligent enforcement of this chapter.
   (D)   Further the city may divulge all information and rights to inspect
books and records of this city upon proper service of process by state or
federal authorities.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 12-3-07; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 2019-
03, passed 2-18-19) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX.
   All money derived from the license taxes under the provisions of this
chapter shall be paid to the city and placed to the credit of the city’s
General Revenue Fund.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 12-3-07; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 2019-
03, passed 2-18-19)
§ 111.12 MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM LIABILITY.
   Pursuant to KRS 67.773 a minimum tax of fifty dollars ($50.00) is assessed
on all net profits per year and is due annually with the business license
application. The minimum tax may be taken as a credit against any additional
taxes due when the net profits for the corresponding years are filed. The
credit shall not reduce the amount due below zero (0) dollars.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 2-18-19)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A business entity or person subject to tax under this chapter is
subject to a penalty equal to five percent (5%) of the tax due for each
calendar month or fraction thereof if the business entity or person fails to
file any return or report on or before the due date prescribed for filing or as
extended by the city or fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report
on or before the due date prescribed for payment. The total penalty levied
pursuant to this section shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the
total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than twenty-five dollars
($25.00).
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the time prescribed under §
111.05 will be subject to a penalty in an amount equal to five percent (5%) of
the tax due for each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty
levied pursuant to this section shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of
the total tax due; however, the penalty shall be no less than twenty-five
dollars($25.00).
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to twelve
percent (12%) per annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not
previously paid, from the time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the
city.
   (D)   Every tax imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest, and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city and every person shall become jointly
and severally therefor.
   (E)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due under
§
111.03 and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in divisions (A), (B),
(C), and (D) of this section by enforcement of the City of Leitchfield Code
Enforcement Board or by civil action in a court of appropriate jurisdiction. To
the extent authorized by law, the city shall be entitled to recover all court
costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it in enforcing any provisions
of this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return or willfully makes a
false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected with
intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected or any part thereof
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   Any person violating the provisions of §
111.10 by intentionally inspecting or divulging confidential taxpayer
information without authorization, shall be fined not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 12-3-07; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 2019-
03, passed 2-18-19; Am. Ord. 2021-15, passed 11-15-21)
CHAPTER 112: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
112.01   Imposition of license fee
   
112.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
112.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
112.04   Due date; interest
   
112.05   Written breakdown of collections
§ 112.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
(Ord. passed 11- -84; Am. Ord. 2013-04, passed 6-3-13)
§ 112.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies, except for annuity policies, on the lives of persons
residing within the corporate limits of the city shall be 8% of the first
year’s premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of
the issuance of such policies.
(Ord. passed 11- -84; Am. Ord. 2013-04, passed 6-3-13)
§ 112.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 8% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax
imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Act and shall
not include premiums received on policies of group health insurance provided
for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2) and 18A.228 or, premiums received by
any state employee benefit fund created pursuant to KRS Chapter 18A for the
purpose of providing health benefits to state employees.
   (B)   At the time of filing the statement, the company shall pay to the City
Clerk/Treasurer a license tax of a sum equal to 8% of the premiums received,
less the deductions hereinabove set out. However, the minimum license tax so
paid shall be the sum of $5.
(Ord. passed 11- -84; Am. Ord. 2013-04, passed 6-3-13)
§ 112.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(Ord. passed 11- -84)
§ 112.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty.
   (B)   Automobile.
   (C)   Inland marine.
   (D)   Fire and allied perils.
   (E)   Health.
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. passed 11- -84)
CHAPTER 113: JUNKYARDS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Junkyard to be screened so not visible from road
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE, VEHICLE or MACHINERY JUNKYARD. Any place where two (2) or more
junked, wrecked or non-operative automobiles, vehicles, machines and/or other
similar scrap or salvage materials are deposited, parked, placed or otherwise
located. The term NON-OPERATIVE AUTOMOBILES or VEHICLES also includes vehicles
which are not currently licensed for operation on a public road as well as
those which because of missing or defective parts or other deficiencies cannot
be legally operated upon a public road without being in violation of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   OPERATOR or OPERATORS. A person, firm or corporation either operating an
automobile, vehicle, machinery or material junkyard or the allowing of such
automobile, vehicle, machinery or material junkyard to be placed or deposited,
or to remain on premises owned or controlled by such person, firm or
corporation.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, agency, company, association, partnership,
business trust, joint stock company, body politic or corporation.
   ROAD. Any public street within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. passed 4-19-82; Am. Ord. 97-16, passed 11-17-97)
§ 113.02 JUNKYARD TO BE SCREENED SO NOT VISIBLE FROM ROAD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be the operator of an automobile,
vehicle or machinery junkyard, as hereinabove defined, within 2,000 feet of any
road in the corporate limits of the city unless hidden from the view of
motorists using such road and adjoining landowners by an artificial or natural
screen, or unless so hidden by virtue of natural topography. The screening
required in this section may be effected by the construction of a fence, or by
vegetation which provides continuous screening. All fences shall be so
constructed that they will not be unsightly and create an eyesore to the
public.
(Ord. passed 4-19-82; Am. Ord. 97-16, passed 11-17-97) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
nuisance violation and shall be punishable by a fine of no less than twenty-
five dollars ($25.00), nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
pursuant to KRS 534.040. Each day a violation continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. The City of Leitchfield Code Enforcement Board
or a court of appropriate jurisdiction shall enforce civil compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 97-16, passed 11-17-97; Am. Ord. 2021-17, passed 11-15-21)
CHAPTER 114: QUARRY AND MINING OPERATIONS
Section
   
114.01   Definition
   
114.02   Quarry and mining operations prohibited
§ 114.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, QUARRY or MINING OPERATION shall mean the
taking of any rock or mineral from an open pit in the ground, or by tunnel or
shaft within the ground, for sale, either as raw rock or mineral, or as a
manufactured product, and all machinery and equipment necessary for the
extraction, mining or manufacture of rock or mineral.
(Ord. passed 5-1-67)
§ 114.02 QUARRY AND MINING OPERATIONS PROHIBITED.
   No quarry or mining operation is permitted within the limits of the city.
(Ord. passed 5-1-67) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 115: TRUCKS; LOADING AND UNLOADING
Section
   
115.01   Reserved
   
115.02   Reserved
   
115.03   Reserved
   
115.04   Reserved
   
115.05   Exemption from parking meter charge
   
115.06   Parking in unloading zones
   
115.07   Issuance; display of permit
§ 115.01 RESERVED.
§ 115.02 RESERVED.
§ 115.03 RESERVED.
§ 115.04 RESERVED.
§ 115.05 EXEMPTION FROM PARKING METER CHARGE.
   A licensee may park for purposes of pickup or delivery for a period not to
exceed 30 minutes at each stop during which time he shall be exempt from paying
a parking meter charge, except however, that in the event the licensee
completes his pickup or delivery in less than 30 minutes, such further parking
time shall be subject to the regular parking meter charge.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 115.06 PARKING IN UNLOADING ZONES.
   The 30 minute limitation for pickup and delivery shall also apply to
unloading zones, which are marked by red paint on the curb stone, except,
however, that the licensee must move to a parking meter space as soon as his
pickup or delivery has been accomplished or the 30 minute period has lapsed.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 115.07 ISSUANCE; DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   Each truck, tractor, or trailer subject hereto shall display a permit,
issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer, upon payment of the applicable fee in a
prominent and visible place on the truck, tractor or trailer.
(Ord. passed 5-6-68) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 116: FLEA MARKETS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   License required; fee
   
116.03   Application for license
   
116.04   Issuance; duration; display of license
   
116.05   Disposition of funds
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FLEA MARKET. Sale or sales of personal property conducted on real property
leased daily or weekly by the seller and not a permanent, fixed location for
the conduct of such sale or sales.
   YARD SALE. A sale of personal property conducted upon or in a residential
lot, structure or outbuilding.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   Each person who conducts a yard sale in the city in excess of twice
within a 12-month period, provided that each such occasion not exceed two
consecutive days of sale, shall purchase a license from the City Clerk/
Treasurer for the conduct of all such sales, and shall pay annually therefor
the sum of $10 being payable as the occupational tax for the privilege of
conducting yard sales.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) of this section, each
person who sells personal property by means of a flea market in the city shall
purchase a license from the City Clerk/Treasurer for the privilege of
conducting a flea market, paying therefor the sum of $25 annually, being
payable as the occupational tax for the privilege of conducting such sales.
   (C)   In lieu of the annual occupational license tax imposed in division (B)
of this section, the owner of real property who permits that property to be
used by himself or others for the sale of personal property by means of a flea
market in the city may purchase a license annually from the City Clerk/
Treasurer, which license fee shall be the occupational tax for all of those
individuals who are permitted to use the licensee's property for purposes of
flea market sales. The rate for the license provided for herein shall be $15
per week that sales are conducted, but not less than $500 per annum.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 6-18-84) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Each person subject to the provisions of this chapter shall present to the
City Clerk/Treasurer an application showing the applicant's name, business
address, business telephone number, residence address, residence telephone
number, and if a non-resident of Grayson County, a statement setting forth any
previous, unpardoned felony convictions. Forms for applications shall be
provided by the City Clerk/Treasurer and paid for out of the General Fund.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 116.04 ISSUANCE; DURATION; DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each license issued under this chapter shall be valid for one year and shall
be issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer. The license shall be prominently
displayed by the holder on the premises where the sale is conducted, and it
shall show the name of the holder and the expiration date.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All proceeds collected hereunder shall be paid into the General Fund, as are
all occupational licenses.
(Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 117: BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
Section
   
117.01   Imposition of tax
   
117.02   Collection of tax
   
117.03   Lien
   
117.04   Use of tax
   
117.05   Outstanding unpaid tax bills
   
117.06   Taxes imposed on financial institutions
§ 117.01 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is imposed on all “financial institutions”, as defined in KRS Chapter
136, located within the city for the 2023 tax year and all subsequent years, a
franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% on all deposits, as defined by KRS Chapter
136, maintained by such financial institutions.
(Ord. 96-6, passed 7-15-96; Am. Ord. 97-13, passed 10-6-97; Am. Ord. 98-5,
passed 9-21-98; Am. Ord. 99-11, passed 10-4-99; Am. Ord. 2000-10, passed 10-2-
00; Am. Ord. 2001-9, passed 9-17-01; Am. Ord. 2002-14, passed 10-7-02; Am. Ord.
2003-9, passed 9-2-03; Am. Ord. 2004-10, passed 9-20-04; Am. Ord. 2005-7,
passed 9-19-05; Am. Ord. 2006-13, passed 9-18-06; Am. Ord. 2007-7, passed 9-4-
07; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 9-29-08; Am. Ord. 2009-08, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord.
2010-12, passed 10-4-10; Am. Ord. 2011-11, passed 10-3-11; Am. Ord. 2012-07,
passed 8-20-12; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 9-16-13; Am. Ord. 2014-08, passed 9-
29-14; Am. Ord. 2015-08, passed 9-25-15; Am. Ord. 2016-13, passed 9-29-16; Am.
Ord. 2017-13, passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 2018-18, passed 9-21-18; Am. Ord. 2020-
16, passed 9-21-20; Am. Ord. 2021-09, passed 9-20-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed
9-22-22; Am. Ord. 2023-21, passed 9-5-23)
§ 117.02 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later than
December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be due with a two percent
(2%) discount by December 31 of each year, or without the discount by January
31 of each year.
   (B)   All taxes imposed by this chapter which are not paid before January 31
shall be deemed delinquent and shall be subject to a penalty of six percent
(6%) and shall bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum.
(Ord. 96-6, passed 7-15-96; Am. Ord. 97.13, passed 10-6-97; Am. Ord. 2005-7,
passed 9-19-05; Am. Ord. 2006-13, passed 9-18-06; Am. Ord. 2007-7, passed 9-4-
07; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 9-29-08; Am. Ord. 2009-08, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord.
2010-12, passed 10-4-10; Am. Ord. 2011-11, passed 10-3-11; Am. Ord. 2012-07,
passed 8-20-12; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 9-16-13; Am. Ord. 2014-08, passed 9-
29-14; Am. Ord. 2015-08, passed 9-25-15; Am. Ord. 2016-13, passed 9-29-16; Am.
Ord. 2017-13, passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 2018-18, passed 9-21-18; Am. Ord. 2020-
16, passed 9-21-20; Am. Ord. 2021-09, passed 9-20-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed
9-22-22; Am. Ord. 2023-21, passed 9-5-23)
§ 117.03 LIEN.
   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject to
the tax imposed by this chapter, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
(Ord. 96-6, passed 7-15-96; Am. Ord. 97-13, passed 10-6-97; Am. Ord. 2005-7,
passed 9-19-05; Am. Ord. 2006-13, passed 9-18-06; Am. Ord. 2007-7, passed 9-4-
07; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 9-29-08; Am. Ord. 2009-08, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord.
2010-12, passed 10-4-10; Am. Ord. 2011-11, passed 10-3-11; Am. Ord. 2012-07,
passed 8-20-12; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 9-16-13; Am. Ord. 2014-08, passed 9-
29-14; Am. Ord. 2015-08, passed 9-25-15; Am. Ord. 2016-13, passed 9-29-16; Am.
Ord. 2017-13, passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 2018-18, passed 9-21-18; Am. Ord. 2020-
16, passed 9-21-20; Am. Ord. 2021-09, passed 9-20-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed
9-22-22; Am. Ord. 2023-21, passed 9-5-23)
§ 117.04 USE OF TAX.
   All moneys collected pursuant to this chapter shall be paid into the General
Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 96-6, passed 7-15-96; Am. Ord. 97-13, passed 10-6-97; Am. Ord. 2005-7,
passed 9-19-05; Am. Ord. 2006-13, passed 9-18-06; Am. Ord. 2007-7, passed 9-4-
07; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 9-29-08; Am. Ord. 2009-08, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord.
2010-12, passed 10-4-10; Am. Ord. 2011-11, passed 10-3-11; Am. Ord. 2012-07,
passed 8-20-12; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 9-16-13; Am. Ord. 2014-08, passed 9-
29-14; Am. Ord. 2015-08, passed 9-25-15; Am. Ord. 2016-13, passed 9-29-16; Am.
Ord. 2017-13, passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 2018-18, passed 9-21-18; Am. Ord. 2020-
16, passed 9-21-20; Am. Ord. 2021-09, passed 9-20-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed
9-22-22; Am. Ord. 2023-21, passed 9-5-23)
§ 117.05 OUTSTANDING UNPAID TAX BILLS.
   On or about April 1 of each year, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall prepare a
list of all outstanding unpaid tax bills within the city, and shall promptly
cause such list, showing the name of each delinquent taxpayer, the number of
the tax bill, and the amount due to be published in the newspaper having the
largest circulation in the county. Said publication shall indicate that a fee
in the sum of five dollars ($5.00) for each time the delinquent list is
published shall be added to the amount owed on each delinquent tax bill.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 2018-18, passed 9-21-18; Am. Ord. 2020-
16, passed 9-21-20; Am. Ord. 2021-09, passed 9-20-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed
9-22-22; Am. Ord. 2023-21, passed 9-5-23)
§ 117.06 TAXES IMPOSED ON FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   There is imposed on all “financial institutions,” as defined in KRS
Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city, for the 2023 tax
year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% on all
deposits as defined by KRS Chapter 136, maintained by such financial
institutions.
   (B)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later than
December 1 of each year. payment of the tax shall be due with a two percent
(2%) discount by December 31 of each year or without discount by January 31 of
each year. All taxes imposed by this section which are not paid before January
31 shall be deemed delinquent and shall be subject to a penalty of six percent
(6%) and shall bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 9-26-19; Am. Ord. 2020-16, passed 9-21-20; Am. Ord. 2021-
09, passed 9-20-21; Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 9-22-22; Am. Ord. 2023-21, passed
9-5-23)
CHAPTER 118: VEHICLE DEALERS
Section
   
118.01   Off site display of vehicles
§ 118.01 OFF SITE DISPLAY OF VEHICLES.
   Franchised new vehicle dealers may conduct temporary off-site display events
of new motor vehicles only within the city, providing that all other licensing
or permitting requirements are fulfilled. No temporary off-site display event
shall exceed seven consecutive days and each such display event shall
constitute a separate business enterprise requiring a city business license. No
franchised new vehicle dealer may conduct more than three such display events
during any calendar year.
(Ord. 2003-11, passed 9-15-03)
CHAPTER 119: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
119.01   Purpose
   
119.02   Definitions
   
119.03   Scope
   
119.04   Duties of the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
119.05   Application for license
   
119.06   Fees
   
119.07   Refund of license fees
   
119.08   Lost or destroyed licenses
   
119.09   Refusal, revocation or suspension
   
119.10   Notice to licensee; surrender of license; hearing
   
119.11   Transfer or assignment
   
119.12   Refusal of license
   
119.13   Review of license
   
119.14   Regulatory license fee
   
119.15   Change of information
   
119.16   Dormancy
   
119.17   Approval of premises
   
119.18   Delinquent taxes or fees
   
119.19   Books, records and reports
   
119.20   Hours for sale and delivery
   
119.21   Conditions, prohibitions and restrictions
   
119.22   Enforcement
   
119.23   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
   
119.24   Signs and advertising
   
119.25   Patio and outdoor sales
   
119.26   Implementation of chapter provisions
   
119.27   Retail premises not to be disorderly
   
119.28   Quota retail drink licenses
Sales and Manufacture
   
119.40   Purpose
   
119.41   Definitions
   
119.42   Scope
   
119.43   Licenses
   
119.44   ABC Administrator
   
119.45   Hours for sale and delivery
   
119.46   Conditions, prohibitions and restrictions
   
119.47   Enforcement, investigation and inspection of premises
   
119.48   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
   
119.49   Signs and advertising
   
119.50   Patios and outdoor sales
   
119.51   Keg registration
   
119.52   Fees and application
   
119.53   Refund of license fee
   
119.54   Lost or destroyed license
   
119.55   Revocation or suspension and hearing
   
119.56   Notice to licensee; surrender of license; hearing
   
119.57   Refusal of license
   
119.58   Review of license
   
119.59   Regulatory license fee
   
119.60   Change of information
   
119.61   Dormancy
   
119.62   Approval of premises
   
119.63   Nudity and adult entertainment activities prohibited
   
119.64   Delinquent taxes or fees
   
119.65   Books, records, and reports
   
119.66   Cost of additional police protection for temporary event
   
119.67   Implementation
 
   
119.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 119.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish uniform regulations and
requirements for the licensing and regulation of alcoholic beverage sales
pursuant to KRS 242.185(6), the provisions of which are now codified in KRS
242.1244 et seq., and other applicable law, for any restaurant or dining
facility which seats a minimum of 100 persons and which derives a minimum of
70% of its gross receipts from the sale of food.
   (B)   To realize this intent, the city shall implement this subchapter in
such a manner as to assure that:
      (1)   Restaurants and dining facilities licensed under this subchapter
shall seat a minimum of 100 persons. Only permanent seating, excluding bar-type
stools, patio seating or temporary chairs available as needed, satisfies this
seating threshold. Said seating must comply with all fire and safety capacity
ratings and regulations.
      (2)   The sale of alcoholic beverages shall be accessory to the sale of
food, offered only during times in which the licensee’s kitchen and food
service staff is on duty and licensee’s kitchen is open for serving food.
      (3)   Restaurants and dining facilities licensed under this subchapter
shall derive a minimum of 70% of their gross receipts from the sale of food as
certified by periodic documentation.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2013-
11, passed 11-4-13)
§ 119.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of the words used throughout this subchapter, unless the
context requires otherwise, shall have the same meaning as those set out in the
Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control law (KRS Chapters 241, 242, 243 and 244) of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky and all amendments and supplements thereto.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11)
§ 119.03 SCOPE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall only apply to the sale of malt, wine and
distilled spirits on the premises of the licensee. Nothing in this subchapter
shall excuse or relive the licensee, or the agent or any employee of any
licensee thereof from the restrictions, requirements and penalties of any other
ordinance or ordinances of the city or of any statutes of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky relating to violations pertaining to Alcoholic Beverage Control Law of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky (KRS Chapters 241, 242, 243 and 244) and all
amendments and supplements thereto, are adopted so far as applicable to this
subchapter except as otherwise lawfully provided herein.
   (B)   Under this subchapter, a license shall only be extended to the owners
and/or operators of those establishments which qualify under KRS 242.185(6),
the provisions of which are now codified in KRS 242.1244 et seq., and under the
terms and conditions set forth.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2013-
11, passed 11-4-13)
§ 119.04 DUTIES OF THE OFFICE OF THE CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint the Finance Officer as the City Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator (hereinafter referred to as City ABC
Administrator).
   (B)   The City Council may from time to time appoint such additional
personnel to the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer as is necessary to assist
the office in the administration of this subchapter.
   (C)   The salary for the office of City ABC Administrator, if any, together
with the salaries of any other personnel assisting the City ABC Administrator,
shall be fixed from time to time by the City Council.
   (D)   The functions of the City ABC Administrator shall be the same with
respect to the city licenses and regulations as functions of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board of the Commonwealth of Kentucky (hereinafter referred to
as State ABC Board) with respect to state licenses and regulations, except that
no amendment to these regulations proposed by the City ABC Administrator may be
less stringent than the statutes relating to the Alcoholic Beverage Control, or
than regulations of the State ABC Board. No regulation of the City ABC
Administrator shall become effective until it has first been appropriately
approved by the City Council.
   (E)   No person shall be a City ABC Administrator, an Investigator or an
employee of the city under the supervision of the City ABC Administrator, who
would be disqualified to be a member of the State ABC Board under KRS 241.100.
   (F)   The City ABC Administrator shall have all authority as authorized
under Chapters 241 through 244 of the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (G)   Should the City ABC Administrator at any time have reasonable grounds
to believe that any applicant, licensee, employee of a licensee, or any
stockholder, agent or employee of a licensed corporation, has a criminal
record, he shall have the authority to require such person to appear in person
at the city Police Department for the purpose of having his or her fingerprints
taken.
   (H)   The City ABC Administrator before entering upon his or her duties as
such, shall take the oath prescribed in Section 228 of the Constitution and
shall execute a bond with a good corporate surety in the penal sum of not less
than $1,000.00.
   (I)   Appeals from the order of the City ABC Administrator may be taken to
the State ABC Board by filing with the Board within 30 days a certified copy of
the orders of the City ABC Administrator. Matters at issue shall be heard by
the Board as upon an original proceeding. Appeals from orders of the City ABC
Administrator shall be governed by KRS Chapter 13 B.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2016-
18, passed 12-6-16)
§ 119.05 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Before an application shall be considered, the applicant must publish
a notice of its intent to apply for an alcohol beverage license in a newspaper
meeting the requirements of KRS Chapter 424.
      (1)   The advertisement shall state the name and addresses of the members
of the partnership if the applicant is a partnership, as well as the name of
the business and its address, or if the applicant is a corporation, the names
and addresses of the principal officers and directors of the corporation, as
well as the name and addresses of the corporation itself, the location of the
premises for which the license is sought, and the type of license for which
application is made.
      (2)   The applicant shall attach to the application a newspaper clipping
of the advertisement and proof of the publication as provided in KRS 424.170.
   (B)   All licenses granted under this subchapter shall be approved by the
City ABC Administrator. Applications for the issuance of new licenses and for
renewals of existing licenses shall be in writing and upon the forms provided
by the State ABC Board and the City of Leitchfield, as amended and supplemented
from time to time.
   (C)   The application shall be verified and shall set forth in detail such
information concerning the applicant and the premises for which the license is
sought as required by the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the State ABC Board and
the city, including as follows:
      (1)   Name and address;
      (2)   Nature of interest;
      (3)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   Date of birth;
      (5)   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
Kentucky. If a city resident, indicate when residence was established.
      (6)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license or
corporation or partnership holding a license under this subchapter;
      (7)   Extent of stock ownership;
      (8)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or
corporation or partnership holding a license in any other state or province.
      (9)   Each application shall be accompanied by check or cash for the
license fee.
   (D)   All applicants shall provide a Kentucky police record / criminal
background check from the Kentucky Administrative Office of the Courts (KAOC).
   (E)   All city licenses shall be in such form as may be prescribed by the
City Council and shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the licensee;
      (2)   The number of the license;
      (3)   The type of license;
      (4)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the licensed
premises;
      (5)   The name and address of the owner of the building in which the
licensed premises are located;
      (6)   The expiration date of the license;
      (7)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a property
or vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to law.
   (F)   All licenses, except temporary licenses, approved by the City ABC
Administrator and issued by the City of Leitchfield shall begin and end on the
dates specified by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control for the City of
Leitchfield. Any licenses issued after the beginning date of any year shall be
assessed a fee which is based on the pro rata portion of the remainder of the
license period. However, the cost of any license shall not be less than that
for a period of six months.
   (G)   The renewal by the City ABC Administrator of the license shall not be
construed to be a waiver or acceptance of any violation which occurred prior to
such renewal and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings against the license.
The renewal application shall be accompanied by a renewal application fee of
$50.
   (H)   In the event a violation of this ordinance occurs that requires the
revocation of the license, the city shall not be required to refund any portion
of the license fee.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2013-
11, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2016-15, passed 9-29-16; Am. Ord. 2016-18, passed
12-6-16)
§ 119.06 FEES.
   (A)   The annual city license fee for the sale of wine, distilled spirits,
and/or malt beverages shall be $1,200. The annual city license fee for a
caterer’s license shall be $800. A caterer may be issued a temporary license
for one event at $200 each. If the caterer requires more than two temporary
licenses in a year, the caterer must then purchase an annual city license for
$800. These fees may be amended from time to time if not inconsistent with the
applicable state statutes.
   (B)   The annual city license fee for the sale of alcoholic beverages during
extended hours shall be $0.00.
   (C)   City licenses shall be issued by the City ABC Administrator upon
receipt of notice from the State ABC Board Administrator of the finality of
appeal or protest permitted upon such license pursuant to the provisions of KRS
243.360, and the fact the State ABC Board Administrator has approved the
applicant’s state application. All fees collected are to be deposited into the
appropriate designated account.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2013-
11, passed 11-4-13; Am. Ord. 2016-15, passed 9-29-16)
Statutory Reference:
   Fees, see KRS 243.070
§ 119.07 REFUND OF LICENSE FEES.
   Should any licensee under this subchapter be prohibited from conducting said
business for the full period covered by the license because of any changes that
may hereafter be made in the laws of the state with reference to alcoholic
beverages or other cause outside licensee’s control the city shall refund to it
the proportionate part of the license fee for the period during which it is
prevented from carrying on said business if the licensee provides sufficient
proof to the City ABC Administrator that such period of inactivity was not the
fault of the licensee or the result of a revocation, suspension or other
wrongdoing by licensee or agent or employee of the licensee.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11)
§ 119.08 LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSES.
   When a license shall be lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the
licensee or his agent or employee, a duplicate in lieu of the original license
shall be issued by the City ABC Administrator after he shall be satisfied as to
the facts; provided, however, that the person applying for said duplicate
license shall pay a fee of $10 for issuing said duplicate.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11)
§ 119.09 REFUSAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be refused, revoked or suspended by the City ABC
Administrator if the licensee shall have violated any of the provisions of
Kentucky Revised Statutes Chapters 241, 242, 243 or 244, or any rule or
regulation of the State ABC Board or of the department of revenue relating to
the regulation of the manufacture, sale and transportation or taxation of
alcoholic beverages or if such licensee shall have violated or shall violate
any act of congress or any rule or regulation of any federal board, agency or
commission, or this subchapter now, heretofore, or hereafter in effect relating
to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and transportation or taxation of
intoxicating liquors of any rules or regulations of the city heretofore in
existence or authorized by the terms of Kentucky Revised Statutes Chapters 241,
242, 243 and 244 to be created, referred to, irrespective of whether the
licensee knew of or permitted the violation or whether the violation was
committed in disobedience of his instructions, or any such license may be
revoked or suspended for any cause which the City ABC Administrator in the
exercise of his sound discretion deems sufficient.
   (B)   A license may be revoked for any of the reasons for which the City ABC
Administrator would have been required to refuse a license if the facts had
been known.
   (C)   Any license may be refused, revoked or suspended for the following
causes:
      (1)   Conviction of the licensee or his agent or employee for selling any
illegal beverages on the premises licensed.
      (2)   Making any false, material statements in an application for a
license.
      (3)   If within a period of two consecutive years, any licensee or any of
his clerks, servants, agents or employees of the licensee shall have been
convicted of two violations of the terms and provisions of KRS Chapter 241,
242, 243 or 244 or any act heretofore or hereafter in effect relating to the
regulation of the manufacture, sale and transportation of alcoholic beverages
or if within such period, any licensee or any of the clerks, servants, agents
or employees of the license shall have twice been convicted of any felony or of
any misdemeanor directly or indirectly attributable to the use of alcoholic
beverages, or of one such felony and one such misdemeanor.
      (4)   Willful and deliberate failure or default of a licensee to pay an
excise tax or any part thereof, or any penalties imposed by or under the
provisions of any statutes, this subchapter or acts of Congress relative to
taxation, or for a violation of any rules or regulations of the Department of
Revenue made in pursuance thereof.
      (5)   Setting up, conducting, operating or keeping on the licensed
premises, any gambling game, device, machine or contrivance, or lottery or gift
enterprise, or handbook or facility for betting or transmitting bets on horse
races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept, or engaged in, on
the licensed premises, any such game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery,
gift enterprise, handbook or facility.
      (6)   Delinquency in the payment of taxes and fees as set forth in §
119.18 “Delinquent Taxes and Fees”.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2013-
11, passed 11-4-13)
§ 119.10 NOTICE TO LICENSEE; SURRENDER OF LICENSE; HEARING.
   (A)   Within three days after any order of revocation of a license becomes
final, notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee and to the owner of
the licensed premises. A notice mailed to the licensee and to the owner of the
licensed premises at the address shown in the last application for a license or
in the last statement supplemental to the application shall be deemed
sufficient compliance with this section. The licensee shall at once surrender
his license to the City ABC Administrator. If the revoked license is not
forthwith surrendered by the licensee, the Chief of Police at the request of
the City ABC Administrator shall immediately cause one of his or her officers
to take physical possession of the license and return it to the City ABC
Administrator.
   (B)   When a license has been revoked, the former licensee may, with prior
approval of the City ABC Administrator, dispose of and transfer his stock of
alcoholic beverages to an appropriate entity.
   (C)   Appeal from the decision of the City ABC Administrator shall be to the
State ABC Board.
   (D)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the City ABC
Administrator, the licensee shall at once suspend all operations authorized
under his or her license.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11)
§ 119.11 TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT.
   No license issued under this subchapter shall be transferred or assigned
either as to licensee or location except with prior approval of the City ABC
Administrator and not then until a payment of $100 shall be made to the City
ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11)
§ 119.12 REFUSAL OF LICENSE.
   The City ABC Administrator may refuse to issue or renew a license for any of
the following reasons:
   (A)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a license and for suspension or
revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for state licenses
according to KRS 243.450, 243.490 and 243.500, as well as violation of any city
ordinance regarding alcohol beverage licensing, sales or the administration
thereof as set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of license
would be authorized; or
   (C)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his or her
application.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11)
§ 119.13 REVIEW OF LICENSE.
   Applicants to whom a license is issued authorizing the sale of alcoholic
beverages by the drink pursuant to this subchapter shall provide periodic
information demonstrating compliance with the continuing requirement that 70%
of the applicant’s business income is earned from the sales of food. In the
case of caterer filings, the quarterly report shall provide a per event
breakdown of sales and the ratio of food sales to alcohol sales during the
reporting period. This documentation shall be provided on a schedule to be
coordinated with the applicant’s quarterly regulatory fee filings. In the event
the 70% food requirement is not met during any particular quarter, the City ABC
Administrator shall have discretion in determining whether revocation is
appropriate or whether the licensee may be allowed a reasonable period of time
to reach compliance. If a good faith effort is demonstrated by the licensee,
the City ABC Administrator may apply an accounting period of at least one year
in determining whether or not the 70% minimum food requirement has been met.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11)
§ 119.14 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   A regulatory license fee is imposed on the gross receipts of sale of
alcoholic beverages of each license issued by the City ABC Administrator. The
license fee shall be six percent (6%) of gross sales of all alcoholic beverages
sold by the drink, by retail sales of packaged distilled spirits and wine, and
by retail sales of packaged malt beverages.
   (B)   Payment of such regulatory fees shall be remitted to the City ABC
Administrator, and shall accompany the tax returns approved for such use by the
City Council. The fees shall be held in a separate account maintained for the
purpose of fully reimbursing the city for any estimated costs of any policing,
regulatory or administrative expenses related to the sale of alcoholic
beverages in the city. The regulatory license fee shall be in addition to any
other taxes, fees or licenses permitted by law; except that, a credit against a
regulatory license fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount equal to any
licenses or fees imposed by the city imposed by the city pursuant to KRS
243.070. These returns and payments are due no later than thirty (30) days
following the end of each quarter.
   (C)   Failure to pay such quarterly remittance within ten days of the due
date constitutes a violation and subjects the licensee to suspension or
revocation.
   (D)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay quarterly remittance by
the due date is five percent (5%) of the tax for each ninety (90) days or
fraction thereof. The total late filing penalty shall not exceed twenty-five
percent (25%) of the tax; provided, however, that in no case shall the penalty
be less than ten dollars ($10).
   (E)   Interest at the rate of eight percent (8%) per annum will apply to any
late payments.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2016-
15, passed 9-29-16; Am. Ord. 2016-18, passed 12-6-16; Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed
6-17-19; Am. Ord. 2020-09, passed 6-22-20; Am. Ord. 2021-06, passed 6-22-21;
Am. Ord. 2023-11, passed 6-5-23)
§ 119.15 CHANGE OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   Since a number of licenses issued by the city are in the name of
corporation, it is necessary that stock ownership changes in such corporation
be reported to the City ABC Administrator. The City ABC Administrator can
therefore investigate the person to whom the stock is transferred in order to
ascertain whether that person is precluded by the statute from holding an
intersect in an alcoholic beverage license.
   (B)   As used herein, the word “change” is construed to include any change
in directors or officers of the corporation, or change in ownership of stock
whereby any person secures 10% of the outstanding stock. Transfer of more than
10% of the total stock shall require a new license.
   (C)   The following information will be required concerning any new
director, officer or person securing any interest in alcoholic beverage
license:
      (1)   Name and address;
      (2)   Nature of interest;
      (3)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   Date of birth;
      (5)   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
Kentucky. If a City of Leitchfield resident, indicate when residence was
established;
      (6)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license or
corporation or partnership holding a license under this act;
      (7)   Extent of stock ownership;
      (8)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or
corporation or partnership holding a license in any other state or province.
   (D)   This information shall be filed with the ABC Administrator as an
amendment of the application pursuant to which the license was granted.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11)
§ 119.16 DORMANCY.
   (A)   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business
authorized by such a license or else the license will be declared dormant and
become null and void after 90 days. Such is the intent of this section.
Realizing that a licensee, like other business, may have his or her business
interrupted by situations not under his or her control, various exceptions to
the dormancy rule have been included in this section.
   (B)   Any license under which no substantial business is transacted during a
period of 90 days or repeated shorter periods, shall be considered dormant and
rescinded by the City ABC Administrator. For purposes of the preceding
sentence, “no substantial business” means either no alcohol beverage
transactions during the 90 day period in question, or using comparable data,
the City ABC Administrator determines in his or her discretion that the license
is being underutilized such that sales for such periods) and such deficiency is
not caused by circumstances otherwise excused by this subchapter. Comparable
data available to the City ABC Administrator may include, but not limited to,
sales data from comparable businesses and past sales data of the licensee in
questions. Upon a determination of dormancy by the City ABC Administrator, the
license shall be surrendered to the City ABC Administrator. If the license is
not voluntarily surrendered, it shall be revoked by the City ABC Administrator.
   (C)   Except that the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) hereof shall not
apply to any licensee who is unable to continue in business at the premises for
which a license is issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death,
the acquisition of the premises by any federal, state, city or other
governmental agency under power of eminent domain, acquisition is voluntary or
involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing
lease. Such licensee shall furnish to the City ABC Administrator a verified
statement setting forth the fact that the licensee is unable to continue in
business prior to the expiration of the 90 days of inactivity, for any of the
reasons set forth herein, and the City ABC Administrator may grant an extension
of the dormancy with the license continuing to remain in effect during the
license period or until same is transferred to another premises,
notwithstanding the fact that no business is transacted during said period;
provided, however, no such license shall be considered valid unless business is
conducted there under within 12 months from the date of notice to the City ABC
Administrator. Such extension may not extend beyond the renewal date but may be
for such times as the City ABC Administrator deems appropriate in exercise of
his or her sound discretion.
   (D)   All renewal licenses must be on file with the City ABC Administrator
within 30 days prior to the expiration of the licenses for the preceding
license period or the same shall be cancelled, except where the license is
unable to continue in business at the same premises licensed during the
preceding license prior due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death,
the acquisition or threatened acquisition of these premises by any federal,
state, city or other governmental agency or private corporation, possessing
power of eminent domain, whether such acquisition is voluntary or involuntary,
or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing lease; that said
licensee shall file a written verified statement no less than 20 days from the
expiration date of the license, setting forth these facts, and the City ABC
Administrator is hereby authorized to extend the time for filing of a renewal
of such license for a reasonable length of time within the sound discretion of
the City ABC Administrator; provided, however, such licensee shall pay a
license fee from the expiration date of the former license or licenses. Said
license fee shall not be payable until application is made for the transfer of
said license to a new location.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2016-
15, passed 9-29-16)
§ 119.17 APPROVAL OF PREMISES.
   The City ABC Administrator shall not grant any alcoholic beverage license or
approve a renewal of a license until said applicant and his or her place of
business shall have been approved by Planning and Zoning, and any and all other
inspections required by the Kentucky Building Code.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2016-
15, passed 9-29-16)
§ 119.18 DELINQUENT TAXES OR FEES.
   No license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages shall be granted or renewed
to any person who is delinquent in the payment of any taxes or fees due the
city at the time of the issuing the license; nor shall any license be granted
or renewed to sell upon any premises or property, owned and occupied by the
licensee upon which there are any delinquent taxes or fees due the city.
Further, if a licensee becomes delinquent in the payment of any taxes or any
fees due the city at any time during the license period, the license to sell
alcoholic or malt beverages shall be subject to revocation or suspension.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11)
§ 119.19 BOOKS, RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Every licensee under this subchapter shall keep and maintain upon the
licensed premises adequate books and records of all transactions involved in
the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the State ABC Board. Such books and records shall be available
at all reasonable times for inspection by the City ABC Administrator and such
city employees who may assist the City ABC Administrator in his review.
   (B)   For the purpose of assisting the City ABC Administrator in enforcement
of this subchapter, every license required to report to the State ABC Board
under KRS 243.850 shall provide a copy of such report to the City ABC
Administrator. Copies of any and all reports and correspondences to the State
ABC Board required by Statute shall be furnished to the City ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11)
§ 119.20 HOURS FOR SALE AND DELIVERY.
(A)   The licensee shall be permitted to sell or dispense distilled spirits,
wine and / or malt beverages by the drink Monday through Saturday between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. and on Sunday between the hours of 12:00 p.m.
and 12:00 a.m.
   (B)   All delivery of alcoholic beverages in the city shall be made during
normal business hours, Monday through Saturday. No delivery shall occur on
Sunday.
   (C)   The licensee may sell alcoholic beverages on New Year’s Eve until 2:00
a.m. on January 1, regardless of the day of the week on which New Year’s Eve
occurs, provided that the appropriate licenses have been obtained from both the
city and State Alcohol Beverage Control. If New Year’s Eve falls on a Sunday,
alcoholic beverages may be sold and dispensed commencing at 12:00 p.m.; if New
Year’s Day falls on a Sunday, then alcoholic beverages may be sold and
dispensed until 2:00 a.m. on January 1. In either event, there shall be no
additional city license fee imposed.
   (D)   Pursuant to KRS 244.290, the licensee shall not be prohibited from
selling or dispensing any distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages during the
hours that the polls are open on any regular or primary election day.
   (E)   During the closing hours, the premises of any licensee for the sale of
alcoholic beverages by the drink shall be closed to and be vacant of all
customers and all persons except the licensee and his employees, who shall be
allowed on the premises for business purposes only. Alcoholic beverages shall
not be sold, given away, delivered or consumed by anyone in any room of the
premises during closing hours, including employees, and no parties, private or
public, shall be held on the premises. The premises shall not be loaned, rented
or leased to anyone during closing hours for a party or for any other purpose.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2016-
15, passed 9-29-16; Am. Ord. 2018-17, passed 9-17-18)
§ 119.21 CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No gambling or game of chance unless otherwise authorized by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be permitted in any form on such licensed
premises. Dice, slot machines or any device with element of chance are
prohibited and shall not be kept on such premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee licensed under this subchapter
to have or maintain any radio receiving apparatus on such premises which is
intentionally adjusted so as to receive police messages broadcast from any law
enforcement agency. In addition to other penalties provided for the violation
of this section, the Chief of Police or the City ABC Administrator, or his or
her designated investigator, shall have the authority to confiscate any and all
such radio receiving apparatus.
   (C)   The licensee shall be responsible for maintaining security on his or
her premises including providing adequate outside lighting to permit customers
to utilize the parking area and to promote the safety, health and welfare of
the general public utilizing the licensed premise. Security standards are
further necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around the licensed
premises.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the licensee under this subchapter who sells
alcoholic beverages of any kind, to give away or offer to give away anything
tangible of value as a premium or prize, or for any other purpose in direct
connection with the sale of alcoholic beverages, or except as otherwise allowed
by state law.
   (E)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
person to become drunk or intoxicated on the premises, nor shall any licensee
permit any drunk or intoxicated person to remain on the licensed premises.
   (F)   The licensee shall not sell or dispense alcoholic beverages to any
person who is under 21 years of age.
   (G)   The licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place a sign at
least eight inches by 11 inches in 30 point or larger type which states as
follows:
      Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) are subject to a fine of up to
one hundred dollars ($100.00) if they:
      •    Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages.
      •   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to purchase
alcoholic beverages.
      •   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages.
   (H)   The licensee, before commencing any business for which a license has
been issued, shall post and display at all times in a conspicuous place in the
room or principal room where the business is carried on so that all persons
visiting the place may readily see the license. The licensee shall not at any
time post the license on premises other than the licensed premises or upon
premises where traffic in alcoholic beverages is being carried on by any person
other than the licensee, or knowingly deface, destroy or alter the license in
any respect.
   (I)   The licensee shall post in a prominent place easily seen by patrons a
printed sign at least 11 inches by 14 inches in size, with letters at least one
inch high, supplied by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission, and with
gender-neutral language supplied by the Cabinet for Health Services, which
shall warn that drinking alcoholic beverages prior to conception or during
pregnancy can cause birth defects. A person who violates this subsection shall
be subject to a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) no more than $50.
(KRS 243.895)
   (J)   No wholesaler or distributor shall sell any alcoholic beverages to any
person in the city for any consideration except under the usual credit or cash
terms of the wholesaler or distributor at or before the time of delivery. Nor
shall any retail licensee sell to a purchaser for any consideration except for
cash at time of purchase.
   (K)   No licensee shall knowingly employ in connection with his or her
business any person who:
      (1)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two years;
      (2)   Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of intoxicating liquors within the last two
years;
      (3)   Is under the age of 20 years who will be serving alcoholic
beverages or who will be having any contact whatsoever with the sale of alcohol
as defined under state statute;
      (4)   Within two years prior to the date of his employment, has had any
city license under this subchapter revoked for cause.
   (L)   Violation of this subsection shall subject both employer and employee
to penalties provided in this subchapter and shall be cause for revocation of
license.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2016-
15, passed 9-29-16)
§ 119.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   City police officers and the City ABC Administrator are authorized to
enforce this Ordinance for alleged violations.
   (B)   Investigation and inspection of premises. The City ABC Administrator
and any investigator acting under the authority of the City ABC Administrator,
shall have the full police powers of peace officers within the boundaries of
the City of Leitchfield. They, along with any authorized law enforcement
officer, may inspect any premises where alcoholic or malt beverages are
manufactured, sold, stored, or otherwise trafficked, without first obtaining a
search warrant.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11)
§ 119.23 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   All persons employed in the selling and serving of alcoholic beverages
shall participate in and complete a city approved responsible beverage service
training program approved by the ABC Administrator of the city or the
Administrator’s designee. Before approval, the Administrator or the
Administrator’s designee shall first be satisfied that the training program is
genuine and effectively trains all participants in the recognition of false
identification and age documents as well as the human characteristics of
alcohol and/or drug intoxication. The city will not require enrollment in
particular classes, but only that the training be obtained from a recognized
program meeting the goals expressed in this subchapter.
   (B)   The training person or agency must reasonably instruct upon and
certify the participants’ competence in at least the following:
      (1)   Pertinent federal, state and local laws related to the sale of
alcohol;
      (2)   Verification of age, forms of identification and usual methods of
false or misleading age identification;
      (3)   The effect of alcohol on humans and the physiology of alcohol
intoxication, including the effect of alcohol on pregnant women, their fetuses
and other situations involving the use of alcohol by persons vulnerable to its
effects; and
      (4)   Recognition of the signs of intoxication.
   (C)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above
shall complete that training within 90 days of the date on which the person
first becomes subject to the training requirement. All persons completing the
training required by this section shall be re-certified in responsible beverage
service training from a program approved by the city not less than once every
three years thereafter.
   (D)   The manager of the restaurant shall be responsible for compliance with
the training requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the City ABC
Administrator a record or file on each employee that shall contain the
pertinent training information.
   (E)   Each restaurant licensed by this subchapter shall at all times that
alcoholic beverages are being served have at least one person currently
certified in responsible beverage service training, as required in divisions
(A) and (B) above, on duty.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11)
§ 119.24 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   (A)   All signage shall be in compliance with any and all other existing
rules and regulations of the city and the city Planning and Zoning Commission
as currently enacted, and/or as may be amended in the future.
   (B)   Signage which refers directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages
will be limited to one sign not over two square feet that must be displayed
from the inside of the window or interior of the business. No additional signs,
banners, posters or other type of displaying advertising which refers either
directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages shall be displayed on, nor shall
it be visible from the exterior of any premises licensed for the sale of
alcoholic beverages, except that reference to such may be included in the name
of the business. This restriction shall not prevent any licensee from placing
in the windows of the licensed premises business cards not larger than two and
one-half inches in size, setting forth the price at which the licensee offers
alcoholic beverages for sale. Provided, however, that alcoholic menu items
listed on a permanent elevated signs and exterior furniture and accouterments
displaying beverage manufacturer’s logo shall not be deemed a prohibited
advertisement. Provided, however, that alcoholic menu items listed on a
permanent elevated signs and exterior furniture and accouterments displaying
beverage manufacturer’s logo shall not be deemed a prohibited advertisement.
   (C)   No flashing, oscillating, rotating, shimmering, or other lights
demonstrating movement, or the illusion of movement, shall be used to
illuminate or be visible from the exterior of any premises licensed under this
subchapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this subchapter to
distribute or cause to be distributed any handbills, circulars, or cards as a
medium of advertising alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   Any advertising by any licensee under this subchapter shall be in
compliance with KRS 244.130 and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (F)   No licensee shall publish or display advertising that is false or
misleading, nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that implies
that consumption of alcoholic beverages enhances athletic prowess, whether or
not any known athlete is depicted or referred to, no shall any licensee publish
or display advertising that encourages intoxication by referring to the
intoxicating effects of alcohol (or the use of terms such as “high test”, “high
proof or “extra strong”) or depicting activities that tend to encourage
excessive consumption.
   (G)   No licensee shall erect or allow to be erected any banner that
displays any particular brand of alcoholic beverage on the outside of the
building or on the property.
   (H)   Any off premises signage inside the city advertising the sale of
alcoholic beverages is prohibited. It shall be unlawful to attach signage
advertising alcoholic beverages to the exterior of the building or the exterior
premises of the business. This prohibition shall include the use of outdoor
umbrellas or other outdoor or patio fixtures that feature the name or logo of
an alcoholic beverage or manufacturer of alcoholic beverages.
   (I)   No licensee shall advertise alcoholic beverages on any municipally
owned property or at any municipally sponsored event.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2016-
15, passed 9-29-16) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.25 PATIO AND OUTDOOR SALES.
   (A)   Patio and outdoor sales regulations. Patio and outdoor sales of
alcoholic beverages shall be permitted only on premises licensed for sales of
alcoholic beverages by the drink.
   (B)   No licensee shall offer alcoholic beverages for sale in a patio or
outdoor area of the licensee’s premises except in a clearly defined patio or
outdoor area that is enclosed by a fence or other screening, not less than
three feet in height. All outdoor areas and screening shall be subject to the
approval of the City ABC Administrator. An exception to this restriction may be
granted for seasonal sidewalk cafes, upon application to and authorization from
the ABC City Administrator. The permission to operate a sidewalk cafe shall be
governed by the provisions of this article and shall be subject to the
regulation of local zoning authorities as well as codes enforcement and public
safety officers.
   (C)   No licensee shall offer patio or outdoor sales of alcoholic beverages
unless the patio or outdoor area and fencing or screening area shall have been
approved in advance by the ABC Administrator.
   (D)   Unless exempted by the following provisions of this subchapter, and by
permission of the City ABC Administrator, patio areas must comply with the
screening requirements of this subchapter. Sidewalk cafe seating areas must
comply with this subchapter and with local zoning laws and other public safety
requirements noted in this subchapter, or in other local ordinances, statutes
or regulations.
      (1)   Exception(s) to screening requirements for outdoor sales and
service of alcoholic beverages, specifically, permitted sidewalk cafes in the
city’s downtown business area.
         (a)   Licensees in the downtown business district/area may request an
exception from the outdoor screening of patio provision in order to permit
seasonal sidewalk cafes that serve food and alcoholic beverages as an adjunct
to the primary and adjacent licensed premises. In the case of permitted
sidewalk cafes, they shall be deemed part of the licensed premises.
         (b)   Any food establishment which operates a restaurant and is
licensed under this subchapter and the provisions of the state ABC code, may,
upon application to the local ABC Administrator, ask permission to expand the
operation of that restaurant onto a part, and only that part, of the public
sidewalk which immediately adjoins the licensed premises (hereinafter referred
to as “sidewalk café”). Licensees who do not serve food shall not be eligible
to apply for a sidewalk café permit.
   (E)   Conditions for sidewalk café permit. The issuance of a permit shall be
subject to the following conditions and restrictions; provided, however, that
the ABC Administrator may without adverse hearing procedures impose additional
reasonable restrictions or withdraw approval upon the operation of any sidewalk
café where necessary in the judgment of the said Administrator to protect the
public health, safety or welfare or to prevent a nuisance from developing or
continuing:
      (1)   No sidewalk café shall be permitted in any portion of the public
sidewalk where normal pedestrian traffic flow is obstructed. A minimum
clearance width of 36 inches must be maintained on the public sidewalk at all
times. The sidewalk café shall not be permitted in any manner to obstruct the
entrance/exit to the restaurant.
      (2)   No tables, chairs or any other furnishings, except plant tubs,
shall be placed in the area used for the sidewalk café during any period when
the sidewalk café is not open and being operated. They shall be removed at the
end of each business day at the hour specified in the permit. Umbrellas,
tables, chairs, and other portable appurtenances shall be confined to the area
shown on the approved Permit. While such café is in operation, all tables and
chairs shall be kept in a clean, sanitary condition.
      (3)   The use of a portion of the public sidewalk as a sidewalk café
shall not be an exclusive use. All public improvements, including but not
limited to, trees, light poles, traffic signals, pull boxes or manholes, or any
public-initiated maintenance procedures, shall take precedence over said use of
the public sidewalk at all times.
      (4)   The licensee shall, in addition to all other requirements of law,
take reasonable steps to insure that alcoholic beverages are consumed only by
patrons of the establishment who are of age, and not by passersby or persons
who are not of age or who are obviously or apparently intoxicated.
      (5)   No disposable cups or drinking vessels may be used and the licensee
shall not permit any alcoholic beverages to be taken off premises by patrons,
customers or guests.
      (6)   No amplified sound shall be used within a sidewalk café. At no time
shall any music originating from any part of the premises create a nuisance.
      (7)   Dancing shall not be permitted or allowed in the sidewalk café;
      (8)   The licensee must at all times comply with all federal, state and
local laws regarding the sale, service and consumption of alcohol and the
operation of the premises:
      (9)   The permit for sidewalk café may not be assigned or transferred.
      (10)   Other requirements applicable to sidewalk cafés. No sidewalk café
permit shall be effective unless the licensee has filed with the ABC
Administrator evidence of insurance, insuring the licensee against liability
imposed by law arising out of the ownership, maintenance or operation of such
sidewalk café, in an amount to be established by the City Attorney and the
city’s Safety Coordinator. The city shall be named an additional insured in the
policy required. Such insurance policy shall further provide expressly that it
may not be canceled except upon ten day’s written notice for more) filed with
the ABC Administrator and the City Attorney.
(Ord. 2016-15, passed 9-29-16)
§ 119.26 IMPLEMENTATION OF CHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   From time to time, the City Council may by resolution or order promulgate
such rules and regulations and may publish and utilize such forms and other
documents as in its discretion may be necessary for the proper implementation
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2016-
15, passed 9-29-16)
§ 119.27 RETAIL PREMISES NOT TO BE DISORDERLY.
   (A)   No person licensed to sell alcoholic beverages at retail shall cause,
suffer or permit the licensed premises to be disorderly.
   (B)   Acts, which constitute disorderly premises, consist of permitting
patrons to cause public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, or wantonly creating
a risk through:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting or in violent, tumultuous or threatening
behavior; or
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise; or
      (3)   Refusing to obey any official order to disperse issued to maintain
public safety in dangerous proximity to a fire, hazard, or other emergency; or
      (4)   Creating a hazardous or physically offensive condition by an act
that serves no legitimate purpose; or
      (5)   Conducting promotional efforts that are not customary or usual for
a restaurant operation (e.g. wet t-shirt contest, wrestling contest, and the
like).
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11; Am. Ord. 2016-
15, passed 9-29-16)
§ 119.28 QUOTA RETAIL DRINK LICENSES.
   The issuance of quota retail drink licenses within the city is hereby
prohibited.
(Ord. 2017-09, passed 8-21-17)
SALES AND MANUFACTURE
§ 119.40 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish uniform regulations and
requirements for the licensing and regulation of alcoholic beverage manufacture
and sales pursuant to KRS Chapters 241 through 244.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.41 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of the words used throughout this subchapter, unless the
context otherwise requires, shall have the same meaning as those set out in the
State Alcoholic Beverage Control Law (KRS Ch. 241, 242, 243 and 244) of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and all amendments and supplements thereto.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.42 SCOPE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to the manufacture and sale of malt
beverages, wine and distilled spirits on any premises or establishment within
the city. The manufacture and/or sale of malt beverages, wine and distilled
spirits on any premises or establishment within the city pursuant to a license
issued by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control Board shall be governed
by the applicable state statutes; however, the provisions of this subchapter
shall apply to all persons, licensees, premises and establishments within the
city to the fullest extent such application is delegated to the city, or
otherwise authorized, by the provisions of KRS Ch. 241 through 244. Nothing in
this subchapter shall excuse or relieve the licensee, or the agent or any
employee of any licensee thereof, from the restrictions, requirements and
penalties of any other ordinance or ordinances of the city or of any statutes
of the Commonwealth relating to violations pertaining to alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law of the
Commonwealth (KRS Chapters 241, 242, 243 and 244) and all amendments and
supplements thereto, are adopted so far as applicable to this subchapter,
except as otherwise lawfully provided herein.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.43 LICENSES.
   Under this subchapter, a license shall be issued by the city only to the
owners and/or operators of those establishments which qualify for licenses
applicable to the city pursuant to KRS Chapter 243. Whenever any person or
entity seeks a license from the Department of State Alcoholic Beverages Control
to manufacture or traffic in alcoholic beverages within the city pursuant to
some other provision of KRS Chapter 241 through 244, such state applicant shall
apply to the city for any applicable city license for the privilege of
manufacturing and/or trafficking in alcoholic beverages within the city. City
license fees, whether primary or supplemental, shall be assessed in accordance
with KRS 243.070 and §
119.52. Regulatory license fees shall be assessed in accordance with KRS
243.075 and §
119.59.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.44 ABC ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint the Finance Officer as City ABC Administrator
and any assistant ABC Administrator subject to approval of the City Council.
The term City ABC Administrator as used in this subchapter shall also include
any assistant ABC Administrator.
   (B)   The City ABC Administrator may from to time appoint such additional
personnel as is necessary to assist him or her in the administration of this
subchapter.
   (C)   The salary for the Office of City ABC Administrator, if any, together
with the salaries of any other personnel assisting the City ABC Administrator,
shall be fixed from time to time by the City Council.
   (D)   The functions of the City ABC Administrator shall be the same with
respect to the city licenses and regulations as the functions of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board of the Commonwealth (hereinafter referred to as ABC
Board) with respect to state licenses and regulations.
   (E)   No person shall be a City ABC Administrator, an assistant ABC
Administrator, an investigator or an employee of the city under the supervision
of the City ABC Administrator, who would be disqualified to be a member of the
ABC Board under KRS 241.100.
   (F)   The City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator(s) shall
have all authority as authorized under KRS Chapter 241 through 244.
   (G)   Should the City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator(s) at
any time have probable cause to believe that any applicant, licensee, employee
of a licensee or any stockholder, agent or employee of a licensed corporation,
has a criminal record, he or she shall have the authority to require such
person to appear in person at the City Police Department for the purpose of
having his or her fingerprints taken.
   (H)   The City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator(s), before
entering upon his or her duties as such, shall take the oath of office as
prescribed in Section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution and shall execute a bond
with a good corporate surety in the penal sum of not less than $1,000, the cost
of which shall be paid by the city; shall be at least 30 years of age, a
citizen and resident of Grayson County for at least two preceding years, have
no interest in any premises or business where alcoholic beverages are
manufactured, stored or sold and have no immediate family member who has a
disqualifying interest. He or she shall receive no commission or profit from
any person applying for or receiving any license or permit.
   (I)   (1)   Appeals from the orders of the City ABC Administrator or
assistant ABC Administrator(s) may be taken to the state ABC Board by filing
with the Board within 30 days a certified copy of the orders of the City ABC
Administrator.
      (2)   Matters at issue shall be heard by the Board as upon an original
proceeding.
      (3)   Appeals from orders of the City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC
Administrator(s) shall be governed by KRS Ch, 13B.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.45 HOURS FOR SALE AND DELIVERY.
    (A)   A licensee shall be permitted to sell or dispense distilled spirits,
wine and/or malt beverages Monday through Saturday between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 12:00 midnight and on Sunday between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 12:00
a.m.
   (B)   All delivery of alcoholic beverages in the city shall be made between
the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight, Monday through Saturday. No delivery
shall occur on Sunday.
   (C)   The licensee may sell and dispense distilled spirits, wine and/or malt
beverages on New Year's Eve until 2:00 a.m. on January 1, regardless of the day
of the week on which New Year's Eve occurs; provided that, the appropriate
licenses have been obtained from both the city and the state ABC Board.
   (D)   Pursuant to KRS 244.290, the licensee shall not be prohibited from
selling or dispensing any distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages during the
hours that the polls are open on any regular or primary election day.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17; Am. Ord. 2018-
16, passed 9-17-18)
§ 119.46 CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No gambling or game of chance unless otherwise authorized by the
Commonwealth shall be permitted in any form on such licensed premises. Dice,
slot machines, quarter pushers, prize redemption machines with programmable
payouts, or any device with element of chance, are prohibited and shall not be
kept on such premises.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee licensed under this
subchapter to have or maintain any radio receiving apparatus on such premises
which is intentionally adjusted so as to receive police messages broadcast from
any law enforcement agency in the county as it is now or may hereafter be
operated.
      (2)   In addition to other penalties provided for the violation of this
section, the Chief of Police or the City ABC Administrator, or any investigator
or officer designated by either of such persons, shall have the authority to
confiscate any and all such radio receiving apparatus.
   (C)   All licensees shall be required to take precautions and implement
measures reasonably necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around the
licensed premises. Accordingly, the licensee shall be responsible for
maintaining security on the licensed premises including providing adequate
outside lighting to permit customers to utilize the parking area and to promote
the safety, health and welfare of the general public utilizing the licensed
premise.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the licensee under this subchapter who sells
alcoholic beverages of any kind, to give away or offer to give away anything
tangible of value as a premium or prize or for any other purpose:
      (1)   In direct connection with the sale of malt beverages; or
      (2)   Except as otherwise allowed by state law.
   (E)   No quota retail package licensee shall permit any alcoholic beverages
to be consumed on the licensed premises, unless it holds an additional license
authorizing same.
   (F)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
person to become drunk or intoxicated on the premises, nor shall any licensee
permit any drunk or intoxicated person to remain on the licensed premises.
   (G)   The licensee shall not sell or dispense alcoholic beverages to any
person who is under 21 years of age.
   (H)   The licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place a sign at
least 8 inches by 11 inches in 30 point or larger type which states as follows:
         "Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) are subject to a fine of up
to One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) if they:
            1.   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them,
alcoholic beverages.
            2.   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to
purchase alcoholic beverages.
            3.   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or
obtaining alcoholic beverages."
   (I)   (1)   The licensee, before commencing any business for which a license
has been issued, shall post and display the license at all times in a
conspicuous place in the room or principal room where the business is carried
on so that all persons visiting the place may readily see the license.
      (2)   The licensee shall not at any time post the license on premises
other than the licensed premises or upon premises where traffic in alcoholic
beverages is being carried on by any person other than the licensee, or
knowingly deface, destroy or alter the license in any respect.
   (J)   The licensee shall post in a prominent place easily seen by patrons a
printed sign at least 8½ inches by 11 inches in size, and with gender-neutral
language supplied by the Cabinet for Health Services, which shall warn that
drinking alcoholic beverages prior to conception or during pregnancy can cause
birth defects.
   (K)   No malt beverage distributor shall sell any malt beverages to any
person in the city for any consideration except cash or cash equivalent paid at
or before the time of delivery, except as permitted by KRS 244.040. Nor shall
any retail licensee sell to a purchaser for any consideration except for cash
or cash equivalent at time of purchase.
   (L)   (1)   No licensee shall knowingly employ in connection with his or her
business any person who:
         (a)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two years,
unless allowed by KRS 244.090(2);
         (b)   Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly
or indirectly attributable to the use of alcoholic beverages within the last
two years, unless allowed by KRS 244.090(2);
         (c)   Is under the age of 20 years who will be serving alcoholic
beverages or who will be having any contact whatsoever with the sale of alcohol
as defined under statute. However, at a premise licensed solely with a non-
quota retail mait beverage package license, a person that is at least 18 years
of age may be employed to sell packaged malt beverages so long as said person
is under the supervision of a person 20 years of age or older; and
         (d)   Within two years prior to the date of his employment has had any
city license under this subchapter revoked for any cause.
      (2)   Violation of this division (L) shall subject both employer and
employee to penalties provided in this subchapter and shall be cause for
revocation of license.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.47 ENFORCEMENT, INVESTIGATION AND INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   City police officers and the City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC
Administrator(s) are authorized and directed to enforce this subchapter for
alleged violations.
   (B)   The City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator(s) along
with any authorized law enforcement officer, may inspect any premises where
alcoholic or malt beverages are manufactured, sold, stored or otherwise
trafficked.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.48 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   All persons employed in the selling and serving of alcoholic beverages
shall participate in and complete a city approved responsible beverage service
training program approved by the ABC Administrator of the city or the
Administrator's designee. Before approval, the Administrator or the
Administrator's designee shall first be satisfied that the training program is
genuine and effectively trains all participants in the recognition of false
identification and age documents as well as the human characteristics of
alcohol and/or drug intoxication. The city will not require enrollment in
particular classes, but only that the training be obtained from a recognized
program meeting the goals expressed in this subchapter.
   (B)   The training person or agency must reasonably instruct upon and
certify the participants' competence in at least the following:
      (1)   Pertinent federal, state and local laws related to the sale of
alcohol;
      (2)   Verification of age, forms of identification and usual methods of
false or misleading age identification;
      (3)   The effect of alcohol on humans and the physiology of alcohol
intoxication, including the effect of alcohol on pregnant women, their fetuses
and other situations involving the use of alcohol by persons vulnerable to its
effects; and
      (4)   Recognition of the signs of intoxication,
   (C)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above
shall complete that training within 90 days of the date on which the person
first becomes subject to the training requirement. All persons completing the
training required by this section shall be re-certified in responsible beverage
service training from a program approved by the city not less than once every
three years thereafter.
   (D)   The manager of the licensed premises shall be responsible for
compliance with the training requirements and shall maintain for inspection by
the City ABC Administrator a record or file on each employee that shall contain
the pertinent training information.
   (E)   Each premises licensed by this subchapter shall at all times that
alcoholic beverages are being served have at least one person currently
certified in responsible beverage service training, as required in divisions
(A) and (B) above, on duty.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.49 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   (A) All signage shall be in compliance with any and all other existing
rules, regulations, and ordinances of the city, including but not limited to,
the Planning and Zoning Ordinance as currently enacted, and/or as may be
amended in the future.
   (B)   No flashing, oscillating, rotating, shimmering, or other lights
demonstrating movement, or the illusion of movement, shall be used to
illuminate, or be visible from the exterior of any premises licensed under this
subchapter.
   (C)   Any advertising by any licensee under this subchapter shall be in
compliance with KRS 244.130 and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (D)   No licensee shall publish or display advertising that is false or
misleading, nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that implies
that consumption of alcoholic beverages is fashionable or the accepted course
of behavior, or advertising that contains any statement, picture or
illustration implying that the consumption of alcoholic beverages enhances
athletic prowess, whether or not any known athlete is depicted or referred to,
nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that encourages
intoxication by referring to the intoxicating effects of alcohol (or the use of
terms such as "high test", "high proof or "extra strong") or depicting
activities that tend to encourage excessive consumption.
   (E)   No licensee shall erect or allow to be erected any banner that
displays any particular brand of alcoholic beverage on the outside of the
building or on the property.
   (F)   Any off premises signage inside the city advertising the sale of
alcoholic beverages is prohibited. It shall be unlawful to attach signage
advertising alcoholic beverages to the exterior of the building or the exterior
premises of the business. This prohibition shall include the use of outdoor
umbrellas or other outdoor or patio fixtures that feature the name or logo of
an alcoholic beverage or manufacturer of alcoholic beverages.
   (G)   Signage which refers directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages
will be limited to one sign not over two square feet that must be displayed
from the inside of the window or interior of the business. No additional signs,
banners, posters or other type of displaying advertising which refers either
directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages shall be displayed on, nor shall
it be visible from the exterior of any premises licensed for the sale of
alcoholic beverages, except that reference to such may be included in the name
of the business. This restriction shall not prevent any licensee from placing
in the windows of the licensed premises business cards not larger than two and
one-half inches in size, setting forth the price at which the licensee offers
alcoholic beverages for sale.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this subchapter to
distribute or cause to be distributed any handbills, circulars, or cards as a
medium of advertising alcoholic beverages.
   (I)   No licensee shall advertise alcoholic beverages on any municipally
owned property or at any municipally sponsored event.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.50 PATIO AND OUTDOOR SALES.
   (A)   Patio and outdoor sales regulations.
      (1)   Patio and outdoor sales of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted
only on premises licensed for sales of alcoholic beverages by the drink.
      (2)    No licensee shall offer alcoholic beverages for sale in a patio or
outdoor area of the licensee's premises except in a clearly defined patio or
outdoor area that is enclosed by a fence or other screening, not less than
three feet in height. All outdoor areas and screening shall be subject to the
approval of the City ABC Administrator. An exception to this restriction may be
granted for seasonal sidewalk cafes, upon application to and authorization from
the City ABC Administrator. The permission to operate a sidewalk cafe shall be
governed by the provisions of this section and shall be subject to the
regulation of local zoning authorities as well as codes enforcement and public
safety officers.
      (3)   No licensee shall offer patio or outdoor sales of alcoholic
beverages unless the patio or outdoor area and fencing or screening area shall
have been approved in advance by the ABC Administrator.
      (4)   Unless exempted by the following provisions of this subchapter, and
by permission of the City ABC Administrator, patio areas must comply with the
screening requirements of this subchapter. Sidewalk cafe seating areas must
comply with this subchapter and with local zoning laws and other public safety
requirements noted in this subchapter, or in other local ordinances, statutes
or regulations.
   (B)   Exception(s) to screening requirements for outdoor sales and service
of alcoholic beverages, specifically, permitted sidewalk cafes in the city's
downtown business area.
      (1)   Licensees in the downtown business district/area may request an
exception from the outdoor screening of patio provision in order to permit
seasonal sidewalk cafes that serve food and alcoholic beverages as an adjunct
to the primary and adjacent licensed premises. In the case of permitted
sidewalk cafes, they shall be deemed part of the licensed premises.
      (2)   Any food establishment which operates a restaurant and is licensed
under this subchapter and the provisions of the state ABC code, may, upon
application to the City ABC Administrator, ask permission to expand the
operation of that restaurant onto a part, and only that part, of the public
sidewalk which immediately adjoins the licensed premises (hereinafter referred
to as "sidewalk cafe"). Licensees who do not serve food shall not be eligible
to apply for a sidewalk cafe permit.
   (C)   Conditions for sidewalk cafe permit. The issuance of a permit shall be
subject to the following conditions and restrictions; provided, however, that
the ABC Administrator may without adverse hearing procedures impose additional
reasonable restrictions or withdraw approval upon the operation of any sidewalk
cafe where necessary in the judgment of the said Administrator to protect the
public health, safety or welfare or to prevent a nuisance from developing or
continuing:
      (1)   No sidewalk cafe shall be permitted in any portion of the public
sidewalk where normal pedestrian traffic flow is obstructed. A minimum
clearance width of 36 inches must be maintained on the public sidewalk at all
times. The sidewalk cafe shall not be permitted in any manner to obstruct the
entrance/exit to the restaurant.
      (2)   No tables, chairs or any other furnishings, except plant tubs,
shall be placed in the area used for the sidewalk cafe during any period when
the sidewalk cafe is not open and being operated. They shall be removed at the
end of each business day at the hour specified in the permit. Umbrellas,
tables, chairs, and other portable appurtenances shall be confined to the area
shown on the approved permit. While such cafe is in operation, all tables and
chairs shall be kept in a clean, sanitary condition.
      (3)   The use of a portion of the public sidewalk as a sidewalk cafe
shall not be an exclusive use. All public improvements, including but not
limited to, trees, light poles, traffic signals, pull boxes or manholes, or any
public-initiated maintenance procedures, shall take precedence over said use of
the public sidewalk at all times.
      (4)   The licensee shall, in addition to all other requirements of law,
take reasonable steps to insure that alcoholic beverages are consumed only by
patrons of the establishment who are of age, and not by passersby or persons
who are not of age or who are obviously or apparently intoxicated.
      (5)   No disposable cups or drinking vessels may be used and the licensee
shall not permit any alcoholic beverages to be taken off premises by patrons,
customers or guests.
      (6)   No amplified sound shall be used within a sidewalk cafe. At no time
shall any music originating from any part of the premises create a nuisance.
      (7)   Dancing shall not be permitted or allowed in the sidewalk cafe.
      (8)   The licensee must at all times comply with all federal, state and
local laws regarding the sale, service and consumption of alcohol and the
operation of the premises.
      (9)   The permit for sidewalk cafe may not be assigned or transferred.
   (D)   Other requirements applicable to sidewalk cafes. No sidewalk cafe
permit shall be effective unless the licensee has filed with the ABC
Administrator evidence of insurance, insuring the licensee against liability
imposed by law arising out of the ownership, maintenance or operation of such
sidewalk cafe, in an amount to be established by the City Attorney and the
city's Safety Coordinator. The city shall be named an additional insured in the
policy required. Such insurance policy shall further provide expressly that it
may not be canceled except upon ten day's written notice (or more) filed with
the ABC Administrator and the City Attorney.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.51 KEG REGISTRATION.
   (A)   As used in this section, KEG is defined as a container designed and
capable of holding six or more gallons of malt beverage.
   (B)   All retail licensees selling malt beverages in kegs for consumption
off of the licensed premises shall attach a control label. The label must
display a control number and the name of the licensee, and must be affixed to
the keg at the time of sale. At the time of such sale, the licensee shall
require the purchaser to complete and sign a keg registration form for the keg
stating:
      (1)   The purchaser is of legal age to purchase, possess and use the malt
beverage;
      (2)   The purchaser is not purchasing the keg for resale and will not
allow any person under the age of 21 to consume the malt beverage;
      (3)   The purchaser will not remove, obliterate or allow to be removed or
obliterated the control label;
      (4)   The property address where the keg will be consumed and physically
located; and
      (5)   The purchaser is aware of his/her duty to maintain a copy of the
keg registration form visible and readily accessible from the location of the
keg.
   (C)   The licensee shall obtain the name, address and telephone number of
the purchaser and shall require the purchaser to produce a valid driver's
license number and, if that is not available, to produce at least one other
generally accepted and reliable form of identification.
   (D)   The licensee shall retain copies of the keg registration forms for a
period of one year and shall make the keg registration form available for
inspection by state and local alcoholic beverage control officers and other law
enforcement officers.
   (E)   The keg registration form shall be forwarded to the City ABC
Administrator within five working days in all situations when the keg is not
returned or is returned with the control label removed or obliterated.
   (F)   The City ABC Administrator is authorized to develop appropriate
registration forms and to develop and to make those forms available to
licensees,
   (G)   All licensees that sell or offer for sale kegs shall post on the
licensed premises a notice provided by the city concerning the provisions of
this section.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale kegs
without the control labels attached and the keg registration form completed. It
also shall be unlawful for any person to remove or to obliterate the control
label or to fail to have the required notice visible and readily accessible
from the location of the keg.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.52 FEES AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Before an application shall be considered, the applicant must
publish a notice of its intent to apply for an alcohol beverage license in a
newspaper meeting the requirements, of KRS Chapter 424.
         (a)   The advertisement shall state the name and addresses of the
individual applicant, or members of a partnership or limited liability company
if the applicant is either, as well as the name of the business and its
address, or if the applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses of the
principal office and directors of the corporation, as well as the name and
addresses of the corporation itself, the location of the premises for which the
license is sought, and the type of license for which application is made.
         (b)   The applicant shall attach to the application a newspaper
clipping of the advertisement and proof of the publication as provided in KRS
424.170, along with a non-refundable application fee of $50.
      (2)   All licenses granted under this subchapter shall be approved by the
City ABC Administrator. Applications for the issuance of new licenses and for
renewals of existing licenses shall be in writing and upon the forms provided
by the Kentucky Department of ABC and the city, as amended and supplemented
from time to time.
      (3)   (a)   The application shall be verified and shall set forth in
detail such information concerning the applicant and the premises for which the
license is sought as required by the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the Kentucky
Department of ABC and the city, including as follows:
            1.   Name and address;
            2.   Nature of interest;
            3.   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
            4.   Date of birth;
            5.   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
the state. If a city resident, indicate when residence was established;
            6.   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license
or corporation or partnership holding a license under this subchapter;
            7.   Extent of stock ownership; and
            8.   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or
corporation or partnership holding a license in any other state or province.
         (b)   Each application shall be accompanied by a certified or
cashier's check, or a postal or express money order for all fees.
      (4)   All applicants shall voluntarily submit to a criminal background
check and shall sign a waiver allowing the release of this information to the
City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator(s).
      (5)   All city license applications shall be on the form prescribed by
the Kentucky Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control and shall contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the licensee;
         (b)   The number of the license;
         (c)   The type of licenses;
         (d)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the
licensed premises;
         (e)   The name and address of the owner of the building in which the
licensed premises are located;
         (f)   The expiration date of the license; and
         (g)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a
property or vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to
law.
      (6)   All licenses, except temporary licenses, approved by the City ABC
Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator(s) and issued by the city shall
begin and end on the dates specified by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage
Control for the city. Any licenses issued after the beginning date of any year
shall be assessed a fee which is based on the pro rata portion of the remainder
of the license period. However, the cost of any license shall not be less than
that for a period of six months.
      (7)   The renewal by the City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC
Administrator(s) of the license shall not be construed to be a waiver or
acceptance of any violation which occurred prior to such renewal and shall not
prevent subsequent proceedings against the licensee. The renewal application
shall be accompanied by a renewal application fee of $50.
      (8)   In the event a violation of this subchapter occurs that requires
the revocation of the license, the city shall not be required to refund any
portion of the license fee.
   (B)   (1)   There hereby is imposed upon each holder of a license to
manufacture and/or traffic in alcoholic beverages, under any provision of KRS
Chapters 241 through 244, a license fee for the privilege of manufacturing and/
or trafficking in alcoholic beverages within the city as follows:
         (a)   Distilled spirit license as set forth in KRS 243.030:
            1.   Distiller’s license, per annum         $ 500.00
            2.   Rectifier’s license:
               a.   Class A, per annum            $3,000.00
               b.   Class B (craft rectifier), per annum   $ 960.00
            3.   Wholesaler’s distilled spirits & wine license, per
annum   $3,000.00
            4.   Quota Retail package license, per annum   $1,000.00
         (b)   Special temporary license, per event         $ 166.66
         (c)   Non-quota type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled
spirits,
            wine, and malt beverages), per annum         $2,000.00
         (d)   Non-quota type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled
spirits,
            wine, and malt beverages), per annum         $1,000.00
         (e)   Non-quota type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled
spirits,
            wine, and malt beverages), per annum         $ 300.00
         (f)   Special temporary alcoholic beverage auction license,
            per event                     $ 100.00
         (g)   Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum      $ 300.00
         (h)   Extended hours supplemental license, per annum   $2,000.00
         (i)   Caterer’s license, per annum            $ 800.00
         (j)   Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per
annum      $1,000.00
         (k)   Malt beverage licenses as follows:
            1.   Brewer’s license, per annum         $ 500.00
            2.   Microbrewery license, per annum         $ 500.00
            3.   Malt beverage distributor’s license, per annum   $ 400.00
            4.   Non-quota retail malt beverage package license, per annum   $
200.00
            5.   Non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license per
annum   $ 200.00
         (l)   Limited restaurant license (includes distilled spirits, wine
            and malt beverages), per annum            $1,200.00
         (m)   Limited golf course license (includes distilled spirits, wine
            and malt beverages), per annum            $1,200.00
         (n)   The fee for each of the first five supplemental bar licenses
shall be the same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no
charge for each supplemental license issued in excess of five to the same
licensee at the same premises.
         (o)   Qualified historic site license (includes distilled spirits,
wine
            and malt beverages), per annum            $1,030.00
         (p)   The holder of a non-quota retail malt beverage package license
may obtain a Non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of $50. The
holder of a Non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license may obtain a non-quota
retail malt beverage package license for a fee of $50.
      (2)   The City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator shall
deposit into the appropriate designated account upon collection of fees. City
licenses shall be issued by the City ABC Administrator or Assistant ABC
Administrator upon receipt of notice from the ABC Board Administrator of the
finality of appeal or protest permitted upon such license pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 243.360, and the fact the ABC Board Administrator has
approved the applicant's state application.
      (3)   Certain special licenses defined: (Please note: The following is an
updated/amended explanation and description of license types consistent with
amendments made to KRS 243.070, which took effect June 25, 2013, and became
enforceable thereafter via timetables set by the state ABC Administrative
Office.)
         (a)   Limited restaurant license. A limited restaurant license may be
issued pursuant to KRS Chapter 243, if said restaurant meets the definition of
a LIMITED RESTAURANT as set forth in KRS 241.010(36). It is a facility where
the usual and customary business is the serving of meals to consumers, which
has a bona fide kitchen facility, which receives at least 70% of its gross
income from the sale of food, and which maintains seating capacity of either
100 or 50 persons for dining. If the limited restaurant only maintains seating
capacity for 50 persons, it shall not have an open bar and all alcoholic
beverages shall be sold in conjunction with the sale of a meal. Distilled
spirits, wine, and malt beverages shall be deemed to be purchased in
conjunction with a meal if the distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages are
served after the meal is ordered.
         (b)   Limited golf course license. A limited golf course license may
be issued pursuant to KRS Chapter 243 if an establishment meets the following
conditions: a golf course with nine, or 18, holes that meets United States Golf
Association criteria as a regulation golf course. A limited golf course license
shall authorize the license to purchase, receive, possess, and sell distilled
spirits, wine, and malt beverages at retail by the drink for consumption on the
licensed premise.
         (c)   Non-quota type 1 retail drink license. A non-quota retail drink
license may be issued to the following pursuant to and defined by KRS: a
convention center or a convention hotel complex; a horse racetrack; an
automobile racetrack; a railroad system; a commercial airlines system or
charter flight system.
         (d)   Non-quota type 2 retail drink license. A non-quota retail drink
license may be issued pursuant to and as defined in KRS for the following: a
hotel that contains at least 50 sleeping units, and receives from its total
food and beverage sales at least 50% of its gross receipts from the sale of
food; a restaurant that receives from its total food and beverage sales at
least 50% of its gross receipts from the sale of food; an airport; a riverboat;
a distiller; or a business located within, or adjacent to, an entertainment
destination center licensed premises.
         (e)   Non-quota type 3 retail drink license. A non-quota 3 retail
drink license may be issued pursuant to and defined by KRS to the following: a
private club in existence for longer than one year prior to the license
application; a dining car; and a bed & breakfast.
         (f)   Non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license. A non-quota
type 4 retail malt beverage drink license may be issued pursuant to and as
defined in KRS to the following: a holder of a quota retail drink license; a
holder of a microbrewery license; a holder of a small farm winery license; and
any other business wishing to sell malt beverages by the drink for consumption
on the premises only. A non-quota retail malt beverage drink license shall not
be issued to any premises from which gasoline and lubricating oil are sold, or
from which the servicing and repair of motor vehicles is conducted, unless
there is maintained in inventory for sale on the premises at retail not less
than $5,000 of food, groceries, and related products valued at cost.
         (g)   Special temporary license. A special temporary license may be
issued only as set forth in KRS 243.260 and 804 KAR 4:250. Such a license may
be issued to any regularly organized Fair, exposition, racing association, or
organized civic or charitable event as permitted by law. This license shall
authorize the licensee to exercise the same privileges and restrictions of a
quota retail drink licensee and a non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink licensee
at the designated premises for a specified and limited time, which shall not
exceed 30 days and which shall expire when the qualifying event ends. All
restrictions and prohibitions applying to a distilled spirits and wine quota
retail drink license or a non-quota retail malt beverage drink license shall
apply also to a special temporary licensee as described in this section.
            1.   The ABC Administrator shall only issue one special temporary
license per event. All sales are required to be served in colored plastic
orStyrofoam container, other than original.
            2.   No special temporary licensee shall offer distilled spirits
and wine for sale at any time between 12:00 Midnight on Saturday and 6:00 a.m.
on Monday.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.53 REFUND OF LICENSE FEE.
   Should any licensee under this subchapter be prohibited from conducting said
business, for the full period covered by the license because of any changes
that may hereafter be made in the laws of the state with reference to alcoholic
beverages or other cause outside licensee's control, then the city shall refund
to it the proportionate part of the license fee for the period during which it
is prevented from carrying on said business if the licensee provides sufficient
proof to the City ABC Administrator that such period of inactivity was not the
fault of the licensee or the result of a revocation, suspension or other
wrongdoing by licensee or agent or employee of the licensee.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.54 LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSE.
   When a license shall be lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the
licensee or his or her agent or employee, a duplicate in lieu of the original
license shall be issued by the City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC
Administrator after he or she shall be satisfied as to the facts; provided,
however, that, the person applying for said duplicate license shall pay a fee
of $10 for issuing said duplicate.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.55 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION AND HEARING.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked or suspended by the City ABC Administrator
or assistant ABC Administrator, or a licensee may in lieu of suspension on
approval of the City ABC Administrator or Assistant ABC Administrator in the
alternative pay in part or all of the days of any suspension period a sum in
accordance with the schedule set forth in division (E) below, if the licensee
shall have violated any of the provisions of KRS Chapter 241, 242, 243 or 244,
or any rule or regulation of the ABC Board or of the Department of Revenue
relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and transportation or
taxation of alcoholic beverages or if such licensee shall have violated or
shall violate any act of Congress or any rule or regulation of any federal
board, agency or commission, or this subchapter now, heretofore or hereafter in
effect relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and transportation
or taxation of intoxicating liquors of any rules or regulations of the city
heretofore in existence or authorized by the terms of KRS Chapter 241, 243 and
244 to be created, irrespective of whether the licensee knew of or permitted
the violation or whether the violation was committed in disobedience of his or
her instructions, or any such license may be revoked or suspended for any cause
which the City ABC Administrator in the exercise of his or her sound discretion
deems sufficient.
   (B)   A license may be revoked for any of the reasons for which the City ABC
Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator would have been required to refuse
a license if the facts had been known.
   (C)   Any license may be revoked or suspended for the additional following
causes:
      (1)   Conviction of the licensee or his or her agent or employee for
selling any illegal beverages on the premises licensed;
      (2)   Making any false, material statements in an application for a
license;
      (3)   If, within a period of two consecutive years, any licensee or any
of his or her clerks, servants, agents or employees of the licensee shall have
been convicted of two violations of the terms and provisions of KRS Chapter
241, 243 or 244 or any act heretofore or hereafter in effect relating to the
regulation of the manufacture, sale and transportation of alcoholic beverages
or if within such period, any licensee or any of the clerks, servants, agents
or employees of the license shall have twice been convicted of any felony or of
any misdemeanor directly or indirectly attributable to the use of alcoholic
beverages, or of one such felony and one such misdemeanor;
      (4)   Willful and deliberate failure or default of a licensee to pay an
excise tax or any part thereof, or any penalties imposed by or under the
provisions of any statutes, this subchapter or acts of congress relative to
taxation, or for a violation of any rules or regulations of the Department of
Revenue made in pursuance thereof;
      (5)   Setting up, conducting, operating or keeping, on the licensed
premises, any gambling game, device, machine or contrivance, or lottery or gift
enterprise, or handbook or facility for betting or transmitting bets on horse
races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept or engaged in, on
the licensed premises, any such game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery,
gift enterprise, handbook or facility; and/or
      (6)   Failure to pay when due any tax imposed by the city.
   (D)   In the event a citation for violation of any provision of this
subchapter is issued, notification of the alleged violation shall be served in
writing on the licensee by delivering a copy to the licensee's place of
business in city and by mailing a copy by U. S. Mail, postage prepaid, to the
licensee's address as shown on the application for a license, giving notice
that licensee may, within seven days of the date of the notification, request
an administrative hearing before the City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC
Administrator to determine the existence of a violation. The hearing shall be a
trial type hearing with all parties having a right to counsel and all witnesses
subject to cross-examination.
      (1)   After the hearing is concluded within 30 business days, the City
ABC Administrator shall issue a findings of fact and decision.
      (2)   Appeal from the decision of the City ABC Administrator or Assistant
ABC Administrator shall be to the State ABC Board within 30 days from the date
of the City ABC Administrator's decision. See KRS 241.200.
   (E)   In the event of the payment of a monetary penalty in lieu of
suspension, the monetary penalties shall be:
      (1)   Distillers, rectifiers, wineries, and brewers            $1,000 per
day
      (2)   Wholesale liquor licensees                  $400.00 per day
      (3)   Distributor beer licensees                  $400.00 per day
      (4)   Retail licensees authorized to sell distilled spirits, wine or beer
         by the package or drink                  $50.00 per day
      (5)   All remaining licensees                  $50.00 per day
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.56 NOTICE TO LICENSEE; SURRENDER OF LICENSE; HEARING.
   (A)   (1)   Within three days after any order of revocation of a license
becomes final, notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee and to the
owner of the licensed premises. A notice mailed to the licensee and to the
owner of the licensed premises at the address shown in the last application for
a license or in the last statement supplemental to the application shall be
deemed sufficient compliance with this section.
      (2)   The licensee shall at once surrender his or her license to the City
ABC Administrator.
      (3)   If the revoked license is not forthwith surrendered by the
licensee, the Chief of Police at the request of the City ABC Administrator or
the Assistant ABC Administrator shall immediately cause one of his or her
officers to take physical possession of the license and return it to the City
ABC Administrator.
   (B)   When a license has been revoked, the former licensee may, with prior
approval of the City ABC Administrator, dispose of and transfer his or her
stock of alcoholic beverages to an appropriate entity.
   (C)   Appeal from the decision of the City ABC Administrator shall be to the
state ABC Board.
   (D)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the City ABC
Administrator, the licensee shall at once suspend all operations authorized
under his or her license.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.57 REFUSAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator may refuse
to issue or renew a license for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a license and for suspension
or revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for state
licenses according to KRS 243.450, 243.490 and 243.500, as well as violation of
any city ordinance regarding alcohol beverage licensing, sales or the
administration thereof;
      (2)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of license
would be authorized;
      (3)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his or
her application and/or
      (4)   Failure to pay taxes (See KRS 243.490(2)).
   (B)   Appeal from the decision of the City ABC Administrator shall be to the
state ABC Board.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.58 REVIEW OF LICENSE.
   Applicants to whom a license is issued which require certain food sales
percentages shall provide periodic information demonstrating compliance with
the continuing requirement that the required percentage of the applicant's
business income is earned from the sale of food. This documentation shall be
provided on a schedule to be coordinated with the applicant's quarterly
regulatory fee filings, in the event the appropriate food requirement is not
met during any particular quarter, the City ABC Administrator shall have
discretion in determining whether revocation is appropriate or whether the
licensee may be allowed a reasonable period of time to reach compliance. If a
good faith effort is demonstrated by the licensee, the City ABC Administrator
may apply an accounting period of at least one year in determining whether or
not the appropriate minimum food requirement has been met.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.59 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075, there is hereby imposed a regulatory license
fee upon the gross receipts of each and every person or entity licensed by the
City ABC Administrator. The regulatory license fee shall be 6% (six percent) of
gross sales of all alcoholic beverages sold by the drink, by retail sales of
packaged distilled spirits and wine, and by retail sales of packaged malt
beverages.
   (B)   Payment of such regulatory fees shall be remitted to the City ABC
Administrator, and shall be held in a separate account maintained for the
purpose of fully reimbursing the city for any estimated costs of any policing,
regulatory or administrative expenses related to the sale of alcoholic
beverages in the city. The regulatory license fee shall be in addition to any
other taxes, fees or licenses permitted by law; except that, a credit against a
regulatory license fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount equal to any
licenses or fees imposed by the city pursuant to KRS 243.070. Payment of the
regulatory license fee shall accompany the fee returns approved for such use by
the City Council. These returns and payments are due no later than 30 days
following the end of each quarter.
   (C)   Failure to pay such quarterly remittance within ten days of the due
date constitutes a violation and subjects licensee to suspension or revocation.
   (D)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay quarterly remittance by
the due date is 5% of the fee due for each 90 days or fraction thereof. The
total late filing penalty shall not exceed 25% of the fee due; provided,
however, that, in no case shall the penalty be less than $10.
   (E)   Interest at the rate of 8% per annum will apply to any late payments.
   (F)   Annually, effective July 1 of each year commencing in 2016, the City
Council shall review and establish the regulatory license fee for the ensuing
year so as to conform to the requirements of this subchapter and KRS 243.075.
   (G)   Prior to establishing the regulatory license fee, the Mayor shall
cause the city's Auditor to audit the regulatory license fee account to insure
compliance with KRS 243,075, and in conjunction with the Finance Officer, to
recommend, based upon the experience of the prior year, a fee rate for the
ensuing year.
   (H)   The Auditor shall report his or her findings to the City Council and
in addition to the regulatory license fee, recommend any action he or she deems
necessary to insure compliance with KRS 243.075.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17; Am. Ord. 2021-
06, passed 6-22-21)
§ 119.60 CHANGE OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   If a license issued by the city is in the name of a corporation, it is
necessary that stock ownership changes in such corporation be reported to the
City ABC Administrator. The City ABC Administrator can therefore, investigate
the person to whom the stock is transferred in order to ascertain whether that
person is precluded by statute from holding an interest in an alcoholic
beverage license.
   (B)   As used herein, the word CHANGE is construed to include any change In
directors or officers of the corporation, or change in ownership of stock
whereby any person secures 10% of the outstanding stock. Transfer of more than
10% of the total stock shall require a new license.
   (C)   (1)   The following information will be required concerning any new
director, officer or person securing any interest in alcoholic beverage
license:
         (a)   Name and address;
         (b)   Nature of interest;
         (c)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
         (d)   Date of birth;
         (e)   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of the
state. If a city resident, indicate when residence was established;
         (f)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license
or corporation or partnership holding a license under this act;
         (g)   Extent of stock ownership; and
         (h)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or
corporation or partnership holding a license in any other state or province.
      (2)   This information shall be filed with the City ABC Administrator as
an amendment of the application pursuant to which the license was granted.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.61 DORMANCY.
   (A)   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business
authorized by such a license or else the license will be declared dormant and
become null and void after 90 days. Such is the intent of this section.
Realizing that a licensee, like other business, may have his or her business
interrupted by situations not under his or her control, various exceptions to
the dormancy rule have been included in this section.
   (B)   Any license under which no substantial business is transacted during a
period of 90 days, or repeated shorter periods, shall be considered dormant and
rescinded by the City ABC Administrator. For purposes of the preceding
sentence, NO SUBSTANTIAL BUSINESS means either no alcohol beverage transactions
during the 90- day period in question, or by using comparable data, the City
ABC Administrator determines in his or her discretion that the license is being
underutilized such that sales for such period(s) are 20% or more below expected
sales for such period(s) and such deficiency is not caused by circumstances
otherwise excused by this subchapter. Comparable data available to the City ABC
Administrator may include, but not be limited to, sales data from comparable
businesses and past sales data of the licensee in question. Upon a
determination of dormancy by the City ABC Administrator, the license shall be
surrendered to the City ABC Administrator. If the license is not voluntarily
surrendered, it shall be revoked by the City ABC Administrator.
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to any licensee
who is unable to continue in business at the premises for which a license is
issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, or the acquisition
of the premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental agency under
power of eminent domain (whether the acquisition is voluntary or involuntary),
or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing lease. Such
licensee shall furnish to the City ABC Administrator a verified statement
setting forth the fact that the licensee is unable to continue in business
prior to the expiration of 90 days of inactivity, for any of the reasons set
forth herein, and, the City ABC Administrator may grant an extension of the
dormancy for such period as the Administrator, in his or her sole discretion,
deems reasonable, advisable and warranted, with the license continuing to
remain in effect during the license period or until same is transferred to
another premises, notwithstanding the fact that no business is transacted
during said period; provided, however, no such license shall be considered
valid unless business is conducted thereunder within 12 months from the date of
notice to the City ABC Administrator. Such extension may not extend beyond the
renewal date but may be for such times as the City ABC Administrator deems
appropriate in exercise of his or her discretion.
   (D)   All renewal licenses must be on file with the City ABC Administrator
within 30 days prior to the expiration of the licenses for the preceding
license period or the same shall be canceled, except where the licensee is
unable to continue in business at the same premises licensed during the
preceding license prior due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death,
the acquisition or threatened acquisition or these premises by any federal,
state, city or other governmental agency or private corporation, possessing
power of eminent domain, whether such acquisition is voluntary or involuntary,
or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing lease; that said
licensee shall file a written verified statement no less than 20 days from the
expiration date of the license, setting forth these facts, and the City ABC
Administrator is hereby authorized, to extend the time for filing of a renewal
of such license for a reasonable length of time within the sound discretion of
the City ABC Administrator; provided, however, such licensee shall pay a
license fee from the expiration date of the former license or licenses. Said
license fee shall not be payable until application is made for the transfer of
said license to a new location.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.62 APPROVAL OF PREMISES.
   (A)   The City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator shall not
grant any alcoholic beverage license or approve a renewal of a license until
said applicant and his or her place of business shall have been approved by
Planning and Zoning, and any and all other inspections required by the Kentucky
Building Code.
   (B)   Ideally, no license for quota retail package sales should be issued
where the proposed situs of the business is or will be located within 500 feet
of a church, school, or daycare facility, as measured by a straight line from
the closest walls of the respective structures. For purposes of this section,
CHURCH shall mean (in addition to its ordinary meaning) a non-residential
structure and premises where religious services are conducted on a regular and
continuing basis. SCHOOL shall mean (in additional to its ordinary meaning) a
non-residential structure and premises where ten or more students regularly
gather for educational purposes. SCHOOL shall not include a vocational training
center intended for adults over the age of 18. DAYCARE FACILITY shall mean (in
addition to its ordinary meaning) a non-residential structure and premises
where ten or more children are cared for during normal daytime working hours
while the parents or guardians are at work or are otherwise engaged. Similarly,
no license for quota retail package sales should be issued where such a store
would materially alter the character of a predominantly residential
neighborhood.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.63 NUDITY AND ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall offer or permit nudity, adult entertainment activities,
including nude or nearly nude dancing, adult motion picture, television, slide
or stage shows, cabarets or sexual entertainment centers on any licensed
premise.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.64 DELINQUENT TAXES OR FEES.
   (A)   No license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages shall be granted or
renewed to any person who is delinquent in the payment of any taxes or fees due
the city at the time of the issuing the license; nor shall any license be
granted or renewed to sell upon any premises or property, owned and occupied by
the licensee upon which there are any delinquent taxes or fees due the city.
   (B)   Further, if a licensee becomes delinquent in the payment of any taxes
or any fees due the city at any time during the license period, the license to
sell alcoholic or malt beverages shall be subject to revocation or suspension.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.65 BOOKS, RECORDS, AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Every licensee under this subchapter shall keep and maintain upon the
licensed premises adequate books and records of all transactions involved in
the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the ABC Board. Such books and records shall be available at ail
reasonable times for inspection by the City ABC Administrator and such city
employees who may assist the City ABC Administrator in his or her review.
   (B)   The original records of the ABC Administrator shall be kept in the
office of the City Clerk. The ABC Administrator shall maintain a copy of those
records in his or her office.
   (C)   For the purpose of assisting the City ABC Administrator in enforcement
of this , every licensee required to report to the Department of ABC under KRS
243.850 shall provide a copy of such report to the City ABC Administrator.
Copies of any and all reports and correspondences to the Department of ABC
required by statute shall be furnished to the City ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.66 COST OF ADDITIONAL POLICE PROTECTION FOR TEMPORARY EVENT.
   If it is deemed necessary in the discretion of the City ABC Administrator,
the licensee may be required as a condition of receiving a special temporary
license, to contract directly with the city (by and through the city Police
Department), at the expense of the licensee, to provide adequate security for
the qualifying event.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.67 IMPLEMENTATION.
   From time to time, the City Council may by resolution or order promulgate
such rules and regulations and may publish and utilize such forms and other
documents as, in its discretion, may be necessary for the proper implementation
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-1-16; Am. Ord. 2017-12, passed 8-21-17)
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The following penalties shall be in addition to any criminal
prosecution instituted in Grayson District Courts against an alleged violator
and fines hereunder shall be payable to the City ABC Administrator.
   (B)   The City ABC Administrator may assess a fine of not more than $500 per
violation. This payment of said fine shall be transmitted to the City Treasurer
to be deposited in the appropriate designated account. Any person, firm or
corporation who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, for which no
other penalty is hereby provided, shall, for the first offense, be fined not
less than $100 nor more than $200, and for the second and each subsequent
violation, he shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than $500. The
penalties provided for in this subsection shall be in addition to the
revocation or suspension of the offender’s license. If the offender is a
corporation, joint stock company, association or fiduciary, the principal
officer or officers responsible for the violation may be imprisoned.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 4-19-10; Am. Ord. 2011-07, passed 7-5-11)
CHAPTER 120: TOWING SERVICES
Section
   
120.01   Rotating wrecker policy established
   
120.02   Rotational towing service list
   
120.03   Application for inclusion
   
120.04   Requirements for inclusion in rotational towing service list
§ 120.01 ROTATING WRECKER POLICY ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is established by the city a rotating wrecker policy, the terms
of which are hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 8-16-10)
§ 120.02 ROTATIONAL TOWING SERVICE LIST.
   (A)   Rotational Towing Service List means that the towing service will be
placed upon an approved list of such services and the service at the top of the
list will be first called to perform services and then be placed at the end of
the list and each subsequent service will be called as needed in consecutive
order.
   (B)   Upon approval to be included on the city's rotational towing service
list, requests for services shall be made in consecutive order on a rotating
basis except when the owner or user of a vehicle to be towed requests a
different wrecker service to respond. In such case, the requested service shall
be summoned regardless of whether it is on the city's rotational service list,
provided the requested service will be able to respond as required under the
circumstances as determined in the discretion of the emergency responder.
   (C)   Should a towing service be requested by the owner or user of the
vehicle be on the city's rotational service list, the response by such service
shall not affect its position on the rotation list.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 8-16-10)
§ 120.03 APPLICATION FOR INCLUSION.
   A towing service desiring to be included on the city's rotational towing
service list shall complete an application on a form provided by the city and
shall be submitted to the Leitchfield Chief of Police or his or her designee
within the Police Department.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 8-16-10)
§ 120.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR INCLUSION IN ROTATIONAL TOWING SERVICE LIST.
   In order to be included on the city's rotational towing service list:
   (A)   The towing service shall have a representative available on call on a
24-hour basis for emergency response. Provided, however, in the event the
service shall not be available, notice shall be given to dispatchers who shall
remove the service from the rotational list until notified that the service is
again able to respond to calls.
   (B)   The towing service shall provide safe storage facilities and be
responsible for the safekeeping of all impounded vehicles and contents of
impounded vehicles and shall allow vehicles to be retrieved between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. prevailing time Monday through Friday. Further each
service shall permit police departments to inspect each towed vehicle at the
storage facility during normal business hours.
   (C)   The towing equipment must be equipped with legally required lighting
and other safety equipment to protect the public and the equipment must be in
good working order.
   (D)   The towing service operator must remove all debris, other than
hazardous materials, from the highway and right-of-way prior to leaving the
incident scene. This service must be completed as a part of the required
rotation service and shall not be charged as an extra service provided.
   (E)   The towing service shall respond in a timely manner. Generally,
“timely” is defined as being able to arrive at the scene within 30 minutes of
being dispatched. Failure to respond or being able to respond in a timely
manner may require the next service on the rotational list being requested. If
the second wrecker is requested before the arrival of the service first called,
the initially requested service shall forfeit the call and be placed at the end
of the rotational list and shall immediately leave the incident scene unless
required by the officer in charge to remain and provide services.
   (F)   Wreckers will respond only when requested by the telecommunications
operator. No drive by towing will be permitted. Calls for service, when
specially requested by a vehicle owner, will not take the wrecker service out
of rotation.
   (G)   A price list for all recovery, towing and storage services shall be
established by each towing and storage service and be provided to the city and
also be conspicuously posted on the towing service's business premises.
Recovery, towing and storage services charged for rotation services may not
exceed the towing service's charges for non-rotation service calls that provide
the same service, labor and equipment.
   (H)   (1)   To be included on the rotational towing service list, the towing
service charges shall be reasonable fees for the services rendered.
      (2)   The application to be included on the city's rotational towing
service list shall list all prices for towing services to be provided and will
be approved by the Leitchfield Police Chief or his or her designee if they are
determined to be reasonable and consistent with fees charged by other rotation
wrecker service applicants.
      (3)   In the event that an applicant's charges are substantially above
the range of charges by other towing service applicants, that applicant shall
not be included on the rotational towing service list.
      (4)   Should a towing service be approved for inclusion on the rotational
towing service list and charge amounts in excess of the amount specified in his
application or charge either for services not actually performed or services
not required, that service shall be removed from the rotational towing service
list.
      (5)   Any wrecker failing to comply with any of the requirements stated
herein or failing to act in good faith with police departments or customers,
will be removed from the rotational towing service list.
   (I)   The Leitchfield Police Chief, the Sheriff of Grayson County and E-911
director, or his or her designees shall evaluate each application and in the
event that he or she determines that an applicant has an historical pattern of
unreasonable charges, incompetent services, or other activities which in his or
her sole discretion constitute dishonest, fraudulent or predatory practices,
that applicant shall not be included on the rotational towing service list at
the discretion of the Police Chief or his or her designee.
   (J)   A new application shall be submitted by wrecker services wishing to
remain on the rotational towing service list shall be submitted annually each
September beginning in 2010, which application shall reflect the then current
charges for services.
   (K)   Towing service operators shall adhere to all federal, state and local
laws and regulations related to registration and operation of service vehicles
and have insurance as required by state law.
   (L)   Being included on the rotational towing service list and/or providing
towing service does not create a contract with or obligation on the part of the
city to pay any fee or towing charge except when towing a vehicle owned by the
city. All such charges shall be submitted to the owner or permissive operator
of the unit being serviced.
   (M)   Each wrecker service shall maintain adequate towing and storage
records and shall permit police departments to inspect such records during
normal business hours. No vehicle impounded by any police department may be
released without written authorization from the department which impounded the
vehicle or order of the court.
   (N)   To the extent that any claims are made against local government which
is in part or in whole the result of the wrecker service's negligent acts,
errors or omissions, the wrecker service agrees to hold harmless and indemnify
the local government, its elected and appointed officials, officers, employees
and agents from all liability, claims, damages, losses and expenses including
court costs and attorneys' fees arising out of or resulting, directly or
indirectly from the wrecker service's performance or breach of this agreement.
   (O)   Prior to submitting an application to be placed on the rotational
towing service list, each applicant shall sign a statement providing in
substance that it has read and under stands the terms of this chapter and
agrees to comply with the terms hereof, expressly agreeing that it may be
denied inclusion on the list or removed from it without any liability on the
part of any governmental entity.
   (P)   All towing service operators shall file all appropriate applications
and pay all fees required by the city.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 8-16-10)
CHAPTER 121: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
121.01   Permit required
   
121.02   Business license required
   
121.03   Number and duration of permits
   
121.04   Permit application
   
121.05   Operation of a mobile food unit
   
121.06   [Reserved]
   
121.07   Storage of equipment
   
121.08   Food safety permit
   
121.09   Regulations
   
121.10   Exceptions
 
   
121.99   Penalty
§ 121.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any mobile food vendor to engage in business in the
city without first obtaining a city special mobile food vendor permit and
complying with the regulations hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 2016-11, passed 9-19-16; Am. Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-6-17; Am. Ord. 2019-
02, passed 2-18-19; Am. Ord. 2019-15, passed 10-7-19) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.02 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Unless otherwise exempted, every mobile food vendor, in order to do business
within this city, shall have a valid city business license and shall be subject
to the required net profits, occupational license fee and restaurant tax.
(Ord. 2016-11, passed 9-19-16; Am. Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-6-17; Am. Ord. 2019-
02, passed 2-18-19; Am. Ord. 2019-15, passed 10-7-19)
§ 121.03 NUMBER AND DURATION OF PERMITS.
   A permit shall be required for each vehicle operated by a mobile food vendor
which permit shall he valid for one (1) calendar year subject to §
121.05.
(Ord. 2016-11, passed 9-19-16; Am. Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-6-17; Am. Ord. 2019-
02, passed 2-18-19; Am. Ord. 2019-15, passed 10-7-19)
§ 121.04 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for the permit shall include the following:
      (1)   The name, home and business address of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of the food and beverages to be sold;
      (3)   A photograph and description of any vehicle to be used in the
operation of the business;
      (4)   A copy of the Kentucky statewide mobile food unit permit or a
statewide retail food unit permit issued to the applicant;
      (5)   Proof of a current insurance policy insuring the permittee and the
city from all claims for damages to property and bodily injury which may arise
from the operations under or in connection with the permit with limits of
liability of at least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per person per
occurrence for bodily injury and twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) per
occurrence for property damage;
      (6)   A payment pf a fee in the sum of five dollars ($5.00).
   (B)   A permit will be denied or may be revoked for any of the following
reasons: conviction of the criminal offenses of larceny, assault, domestic
violence, fraud, sex related crimes, drug related crimes, crimes against
children, a history of traffic violations involving the mobile food unit or
noncompliance with the applicable city ordinances or state laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2016-11, passed 9-19-16; Am. Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-6-17; Am. Ord. 2019-
02, passed 2-18-19; Am. Ord. 2019-15, passed 10-7-19)
§ 121.05 OPERATION OF A MOBILE FOOD UNIT.
   Per KAR 902 45:005 of the Kentucky State Food Code, a mobile food unit,
(mobile food vendor), shall not stay in operation at one location for more than
fourteen (14) consecutive days, then the unit must move and cannot return to
the same location for thirty (30) consecutive days.
(Ord. 2016-11, passed 9-19-16; Am. Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-6-17; Am. Ord. 2019-
02, passed 2-18-19; Am. Ord. 2019-15, passed 10-7-19) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.06 [RESERVED].
§ 121.07 STORAGE OF EQUIPMENT.
   Neither the food vendor vehicle, or any portion of a mobile food vendor's
inventory, sales equipment or any other structure or equipment used in the
sales process shall be left overnight upon any unenclosed portion of any lot or
site within the city, unless such site is owned by the owner of the said
vehicle, inventory or equipment.
(Ord. 2016-11, passed 9-19-16; Am. Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-6-17; Am. Ord. 2019-
02, passed 2-18-19; Am. Ord. 2019-15, passed 10-7-19) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.08 FOOD SAFETY PERMIT.
   The mobile food vendor's vehicle and equipment must at all time maintain a
satisfactory food safety permit from the local Health Department.
(Ord. 2016-11, passed 9-19-16; Am. Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-6-17; Am. Ord. 2019-
02, passed 2-18-19; Am. Ord. 2019-15, passed 10-7-19) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.09 REGULATIONS.
   As a condition to maintaining any permit issued, all mobile food vendors
shall comply with the following regulations:
   (A)   A valid city business license and any permit issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be posted conspicuously at the place of business authorized.
   (B)   No mobile food vendor may set out chairs or tables unless the location
is within one hundred (100) feet of a public restroom.
   (C)   No mobile food vendor's equipment shall be located closer than twenty
(20) feet from any building or structure.
   (D)   No mobile food vendor's vehicle shall be located on a lot that does
not have an approved entrance to a street or roadway.
   (E)   No mobile food vendor's vehicle shall locate closer than fifty (50)
feet from flammable combustible liquid or gas storage and dispensing
structures.
   (F)   A minimum of two (2) parking spaces shall be available to the
permittee's patrons, which spaces shall not impair the parking space for any
other business at the permittee's site.
   (G)   No mobile food vendor shall obstruct or cause to be obstructed the
passage of any sidewalk, street or public way by causing people to congregate
at or near the place where food is offered for sale.
   (H)   Vendors shall place at least one thirty (30)-gallon garbage receptacle
at the business site for the use of its business and customers.
   (I)    The vendor shall clean up and remove all debris, trash and litter
generated by its business at the end of each day.
   (J)   As a condition of receiving a permit and in addition to providing the
insurance hereinabove described, the permittee shall agree to hold the city
harmless from any and all claims and indemnify the city for the costs of
attorney fees in defending any such claims.
(Ord. 2016-11, passed 9-19-16; Am. Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-6-17; Am. Ord. 2019-
02, passed 2-18-19; Am. Ord. 2019-15, passed 10-7-19) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.10 EXCEPTIONS.
   Excepted from the requirements of this chapter are mobile food vendors which
operate as part of a state, county, or city event or an organized civic or
religious festival or similar organized activity or event approved by the city.
(Ord. 2016-11, passed 9-19-16; Am. Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-6-17; Am. Ord. 2019-
02, passed 2-18-19; Am. Ord. 2019-15, passed 10-7-19)
§ 121.99 PENALTY.
   Any permittee who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of
a violation and shall be fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) at
the discretion of the court of competent jurisdiction and in addition shall be
liable to the revocation of the permit at the discretion of the Mayor. Any
appeal from the decision of the Mayor to revoke the permit shall be taken to
the Grayson District Court as a trial de novo.
(Ord. 2016-11, passed 9-19-16; Am. Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-6-17; Am. Ord. 2019-
02, passed 2-18-19; Am. Ord. 2019-15, passed 10-7-19)
CHAPTER 122: CANNABIS BUSINESS
Section
   
122.01   Definitions
   
122.02   Cannabis businesses allowed
§ 122.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions with KRS 218B.010 are hereby adopted as if set out in herein
and as relevant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-27, passed 8-5-24)
§ 122.02 CANNABIS BUSINESSES ALLOWED.
   All cannabis businesses are hereby allowed to operate within the city limits
of Leitchfield, Kentucky.
(Ord. 2024-27, passed 8-5-24)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
Section
Halloween Activities
   
130.01   Halloween activities regulated
Wearing of Hoods and Masks
   
130.10   Definition
   
130.11   Wearing hoods or masks in a public place
   
130.12   Exemptions
Smoking in Enclosed Public Places
   
130.20   Definitions
   
130.21   Prohibition of smoking in enclosed public places
   
130.22   Notice to patrons
   
130.23   Where smoking is not regulated
   
130.24   Declaration of establishment as nonsmoking
   
130.25   Enforcement and penalties
 
   
130.99   Penalties
HALLOWEEN ACTIVITIES
§ 130.01 HALLOWEEN ACTIVITIES REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in the Halloween activity commonly known as
"Trick or Treating" within the corporate limits of the city, except that
children may engage in such activity under the following conditions:
   (A)   All children must be accompanied by a parent, guardian or responsible
adult who shall assure that the child or children being supervised is not
permitted to engage in acts of vandalism or malicious mischief;
   (B)   All children must wear an article of outside clothing which is by
reason of color or design such that the child will be readily visible to
motorists driving at night;
   (C)   The activity commonly known as "Trick or Treating" shall be restricted
to Halloween and shall commence no earlier than 5:00 p.m. prevailing time and
shall terminate at 8:00 p.m. prevailing time; provided however, should
Halloween fall on a Sunday, the activities shall be restricted to the preceding
Saturday and shall commence no earlier than 5:00 p.m. prevailing time and shall
terminate at 8:00 p.m. prevailing time;
   (D)   Children are defined as being individuals under the age of 14 years.
(Ord. passed 10-20-80; Am. Ord. passed 10-25-82; Am. Ord. 95-12, passed 11-20-
95) Penalty, §
10.99
§ 130.10 DEFINITION.
   PUBLIC PLACE. All walks, alleys, streets, boulevards, avenues, lanes, roads,
highways or other ways or thoroughfares dedicated to public use or owned or
maintained by public authority; all grounds and buildings owned, leased or
operated for the use of organizations enjoying all tax-exempt privileges as a
charitable use.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 4-1-96)
§ 130.11 WEARING HOODS OR MASKS IN A PUBLIC PLACE.
   No group of three or more persons shall, while wearing any hood, mask, or
device whereby a substantial portion of the face is hidden or covered so as to
conceal the identity of the wearer, enter, be or appear in any public place
within the city.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2020-20, passed 12-21-20)
§ 130.12 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the provisions of §
130.11:
   (A)   Any person under sixteen (16) years of age;
   (B)   Any person using masks in theatrical productions including use in
mardi gras celebrations and masquerade balls;
   (C) Any person lawfully engaged in trades or employment or in a sporting
activity where a mask or facial covering is worn for the purpose of ensuring
the physical safety and physical protection of the wearer, or because of the
nature of the occupation, trade, or professional or sporting activity;
   (D) Any person wearing a gas mask in drills, exercises or emergencies;
   (E)   Any person wearing a mask or face-covering used primarily for health,
medical and safety purposes; and
   (F)   Any person wearing normal outerwear with an attached hood.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 4-1-96; Am. Ord. 2020-20, passed 12-21-20)
SMOKING IN ENCLOSED PUBLIC PLACES
§ 130.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING/PRIVATE RESIDENCE. Any place used primarily for sleeping overnight
and conducting normal activities of daily living.
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine or
any other non-medical substance intended for human consumption that can be used
from the product. The term includes such device, whether manufactured,
distributed, marketed, or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, e-hookah, or
vape pen, or under any other product name or description.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on all
sides by solid walls or windows and/or doors which extend from the floor to the
ceiling and into which space the public is usually permitted.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An organization, whether incorporated or not, which the owner,
lessee or occupant of a building or portion thereof uses for club purposes
including recreational, fraternal, social, patriotic, political, benevolent or
religious purposes, but not for net pecuniary gain and which may sell alcoholic
beverages incidental to its operation. Provided, however, that private clubs
are not exempt from the smoking prohibition set forth in this subchapter to the
extent that persons under the age of 18 are permitted to be present.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An ENCLOSED AREA into which the public is normally invited or
in which the public is normally permitted to be present whether for business or
nonbusiness purposes.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe or other lighted or heated tobacco or plant product, intended
for inhalation, including hookahs and marijuana in any manner or form, whether
nor not legally possessed, as well as the use of E-Cigarettes. SMOKING also
includes the use of an electronic smoking device which creates an aerosol or
vapor, in any manner or in any form, or in the use of any oral smoking device
for the purpose of circumventing the prohibition of smoking in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-10, passed 9-19-16)
§ 130.21 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN ENCLOSED PUBLIC PLACES.
   Except as otherwise hereinafter provided, smoking is prohibited in all
enclosed public places within the City of Leitchfield, Kentucky. Also
prohibited is smoking within 15 feet from the outside entrance to or open
windows of any enclosed public place in which smoking is herein prohibited.
(Ord. 2016-10, passed 9-19-16)
§ 130.22 NOTICE TO PATRONS.
   “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking Symbol” consisting of a
pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a
red bar across it shall be clearly posted in every enclosed public place in
which smoking is prohibited by this ordinance. A sign reciting “Smoking
Prohibited By Leitchfield City Council” constitutes a sufficient no smoking
warning.
(Ord. 2016-10, passed 9-19-16)
§ 130.23 WHERE SMOKING IS NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter to the contrary, the
following area shall be exempt from the provisions of §§
130.21 and
130.22, to wit:
   (A)   Private residences/dwellings except when used for childcare, adult day
care, or health care purposes.
   (B)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated a
smoking rooms. Provided, however, all smoking rooms must be contiguous and
sufficiently isolated from the rest of the facility so that smoke shall not
infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited under the terms of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Private clubs As hereinbefore defined as well as penal institutions in
which federal prisoners are incarcerated.
   (D)   Nursing homes and long term care facilities to the extent that
isolated areas are provided by the operators of the facility for residents to
smoke and which isolated areas are so ventilated that smoke does not infiltrate
into areas where smoking is prohibited under the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-10, passed 9-19-16)
§ 130.24 DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NONSMOKING.
   (A)   An owner, operator, manager or other authorized person in control of
an establishment, facility or outdoor area may declare the outdoor areas under
his or her control as a nonsmoking area regardless of whether this subchapter
prohibits smoking in said area.
   (B)   An owner, operator, manager or other authorized person in control of
an establishment or facility in which smoking is not prohibited under the terms
of this subchapter may prohibit smoking in said establishment or facility.
Smoking in such prohibited areas shall subject the violator to the same
penalties set forth hereafter in §
130.25.
(Ord. 2016-10, passed 9-19-16)
§ 130.25 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The city, county or state police shall enforce this subchapter.
   (B)   Notice of the provisions of this subchapter shall be given to all
applicants for a business license in the City of Leitchfield, Kentucky.
   (C)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint that the terms of the
subchapter has been or is being violated may initiate enforcement with any of
the organizations listed in division (A) of this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited shall
be guilty of a violation, punishable by a fine not exceeding $50 plus court
costs.
      (2)   A person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls a
facility in which smoking is prohibited by this subchapter and who willingly
fails to prohibit smoking shall be guilty of a violation punishable by:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding $100 plus court costs for a first
violation;
         (b)   A fine not exceeding $200 plus court costs for a second
violation within one year of the first violation date;
         (c)   A fine not exceeding $250 plus court costs for each additional
violation within one year of the second violation.
(Ord. 2016-10, passed 9-19-16)
§ 130.99 PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates §
130.11 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined no
more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and/or imprisoned for no longer than
fifty (50) days.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 4-1-96)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   RESERVED
         
152.   UNSAFE AND UNFIT STRUCTURES
         
153.   ZONING CODE
         
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Standard Codes
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code and Standards of Safety;
enforcement agents
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Appeals
Construction Standards
   
150.20   Specifications for construction of city streets
   
150.21   Requirements for developers constructing streets
   
150.22   Approval of subdivision streets to be dedicated
   
150.23   Naming of city streets prior to acceptance
   
150.24   Obstruction of water flow along city streets prohibited
   
150.25   Director to be notified of encroachments
   
150.26   Director to inspect encroachments for obstruction of water flow;
determinations
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Zoning code, see
Ch. 153
STANDARD CODES
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY;
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, including the CABO One And Two Family
Dwelling Code, as promulgated in 815 KAR 7:105 by the Board of Housing,
Buildings and Construction, Commonwealth of Kentucky together with any
amendments, is hereby adopted by reference for full application on all building
construction in the city as if set out at length in the Code of Ordinances. A
copy of the Kentucky Building Code together with a copy of all other
regulations or NFPA pamphlets adopted or referred to thereunder, is on file in
the Office of the Grayson County Clerk, and the Clerk shall at all time keep a
copy of the building code for reference.
   (B)   The Leitchfield Building Inspector, shall be designated as the local
enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code. All inspections shall be
performed by persons certified by the Kentucky Department of Housing, Buildings
and Construction, and the fee for obtaining such inspections and permits shall
be as established by the Planning and Zoning Code.
   (C)   The application of the Kentucky Building Code is hereby extended to
require permits, inspections and certificates of occupancy for the construction
or alteration of all single family dwellings to be constructed in the city.
   (D)   The State Building Inspector shall be designated as the local
enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code, for commercial property.
   (E)   The Fire Chief and all other designated officers, agents, and
employees of the city are hereby charged with the enforcement of the provisions
of the Standards of Safety.
(Ord. passed 5-16-66; Am. Ord. 2000-2, passed 1-3-00) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code shall be extended to all single-
family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
§ 150.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B, is
established to hear such appeals.
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 150.20 SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF CITY STREETS.
   The construction of all streets to be dedicated to the city shall meet the
following criteria:
   (A)   The minimum dedicated right of way shall be fifty (50) feet;
   (B)   The subdivider or developer shall provide pavements on a subgrade that
has been properly shaped, rolled and uniformly completed to conform with
specified cross-sections and grades. Streets shall be constructed of Portland
Cement Concrete (PCC) or Bituminous Concrete (asphalt) which conforms to all
industry standards and to "Kentucky Department of Highways Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction."
      (1)   All subgrades shall conform to 95% compaction as defined by the
Standard Proctor compaction test. It is the sole responsibility of the
subdivider or developer to contract with a third party to perform said
compaction test. The third party shall hold a Professional Engineer's License
in the Commonwealth of Kentucky. All rock subbases shall extend at least twelve
(12) inches beyond the edge of the pavement.
      (2)   Portland Cement Concrete streets with curbs and gutters shall be
placed integrally. Concrete streets shall be constructed on a two-inch (2")
rock base, well compacted and have at least ninety-five percent (95%)
compaction (Standard Proctor). Streets shall be constructed in conformance with
one of the following pavement specifications:
         (a)   Collector Streets (Functions to conduct traffic between arterial
streets and local streets)
 
PCC Pavement 2" DGA
             7 inches PCC
Asphalt      6" DGA
             3" Class 1 Base Asphalt
             1" Class 1 Surface Asphalt
 
         (b)   Local Streets and Cul-de-sacs (for purpose of providing
vehicular access and service to abutting property)
 
PCC Pavement 2" DGA
             6 inches PCC
Asphalt      6" DGA
             2" Class 1 Base Asphalt
             1" Class 1 Surface Asphalt
 
         (c)   Curb and Gutter
 
PCC Standard Vertical Face 6" high and 6" side curb
                           18" wide and 7" thick gutter
PCC Standard "Rolled" Curb 24" total width
                           6" high and 7" thick gutter (collector)
                           6" high and 6" thick gutter (local)
 
   (C)   The pavement width shall be a minimum of twenty (20) feet. Shoulders
shall be compacted and shall be a minimum of three (3) feet in width from the
pavement edge. The distance from shoulder to ditch centerline shall be a
minimum of three (3) feet. The ditch shall be a minimum of one (1) foot deep.
The slopes of the sides of the ditch shall be no steeper than a ratio of 2:1.
   (D)   Certified engineering plans and specifications for storm water
drainage shall be provided. Plans shall indicate the route and layout of all
lines and ditches and location of all storm water runoff. All improvements
shall be designed and constructed according to standard engineering practices.
It is the responsibility of the developer and his/her engineer to obtain the
best available design and construction. These requirements are adopted only as
a minimum standard, and all developers should consider developing their
subdivisions at higher standards. The city may require standards above the
minimum contained herein and additional measures whenever it finds that the
public health, safety and welfare justify such increase. Provisions shall be
made for the satisfactory drainage of storm water by means of underground pipes
and/or surface ditches. The storm water system shall be provided by the
developer and shall be designed to accommodate the standard twenty-five (25)
year storm and in all aspects shall meet the approval of the city.
      (1)   The drainage system shall met the following design requirements:
Pipe material                 Reinforced concrete or corrugated metal
Pipe size (street culverts)   25 year storm
Pipe size (entrance)          10 year storm
Minimum pipe size             12" diameter
Pipe length (street culverts) ditchline to ditchline*
Pipe length (entrance)        16 feet**
Minimum cover                 1 foot
Drainage box materials        Precast, poured in place PCC
Drainage box size             25 year storm, minimum size - 2' x 2'
Drainage box spacing          ***
Drainage box tops
   Traffic areas           H-20 loading
   Field areas             Iron frame with steel pipe bars
 
      *Headwalls on culvert pipes are not required; however, acceptable
provisions must be made to prevent erosion around the pipe entrance.
      **Entrance pipes for each lot shall be sized and indicated on the
drainage plan.
      ***Drainage boxes in curb and gutter streets shall be spaced so as to
confine the flow of storm water to an area within five feet (5') of the curb at
the design storm. Boxes shall also be placed so as to provide drainage of
street intersections, but in no case shall openings be farther than five
hundred feet (500') apart. The boxes shall be constructed with a sufficient
drawdown to the gutter opening and may be offset into the curb line.
      (2)   Easements for new, or the continuation of existing, utility and
storm water drainage shall be provided for all developments with the width or
other character as required by the design engineer based upon the
recommendations from the various utility companies.
   (E)   Upon written request from the developer, the city will accept new
streets into the city's street system for ownership and continuous maintenance
after approval by the city council. This request shall be accompanied by the
following:
      (1)   A letter from the developer's engineer certifying that materials,
construction and testing comply with city specifications.
      (2)   A complete set of "as constructed" drawings. These shall show the
profile of each street (with elevations of ground and street grade) and a
typical cross-section of each street showing pavement width, rights-of-way and
sidewalks.
   Upon inspection and approval by the City Engineer, the developer shall be
notified of the initial acceptance date. This date shall begin a one-year
warranty period during which the city will periodically inspect the streets and
the developer or his contractor will be responsible for correction to any
defects found. After the one-year warranty period expires, the city will
permanently accept the streets for continuous maintenance.
   (F)   All exposed areas of graded earth shall either be vegetated by seed,
fertilizer and mulch or sodded. The amounts and types of materials used to
vegetate to be approved by the city prior to acceptance so as to assure that
adequate vegetative cover will be present to prevent erosion.
   (G)   Cul-de-sacs and turnarounds, a local street open at one end only,
shall have a special turning area at the closed end. This turning area
desirably should be circular and have a radius appropriate to the types of
vehicles expected. Minimum outside radii of thirty feet (30') in residential
areas and forty-five feet (45') in commercial and industrial areas are
required.
   (H)   Street names shall be selected which will not duplicate nor be
confused with names of any other existing street or road in Grayson County and
in conformance with the street and road naming and property number regulations
of the Grayson County E-911 Board. Proposed streets, which are clearly in
alignment with existing streets, shall bear the name of the existing street.
Generally, no street should change direction ninety degrees (90o) or more
without a change in name, except in the case of a loop or circle.
(Ord. 95-13, passed 12-4-95)
§ 150.21 REQUIREMENTS FOR DEVELOPERS CONSTRUCTING STREETS.
   (A)   Any person seeking to construct streets within the city which are to
be dedicated to the city shall:
      (1)   Submit design plans to the city for prior approval so as to ensure
that the design meets the hereinabove set forth criteria.
      (2)   Notify the city prior to the commencement of construction so as to
permit the city to inspect the on-going construction in order to ensure that
the construction meets the hereinabove described criteria.
      (3)   Reimburse the city for the actual cost of street signs and the
installation thereof.
   (B)   Those streets to be dedicated to the City, the construction of which
commenced prior to the enactment of this subchapter, shall comply with the
criteria set forth in the hereinabove described ordinance dated December 16,
1985.
(Ord. 95-13, passed 12-4-95)
§ 150.22 APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION STREETS TO BE DEDICATED.
   (A)   Any subdivision street within the city limits, which is to be
dedicated to the city on any recorded plat or map, shall hereafter be brought
before the City Council to be approved by the City Council before the city will
be responsible for the maintenance, improvements and general upkeep of the
street.
   (B)   This section shall in no way limit the right to develop subdivisions
and their necessary streets within the city, and existing streets that have
heretofore been maintained by the city shall continue to be so maintained.
   (C)   This section shall be in effect until such time as a general planning
and zoning ordinance controlling subdivision planning is adopted by the city.
(Ord. passed 6-3-74)
§ 150.23 NAMING OF CITY STREETS PRIOR TO ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   Prior to the acceptance of streets within the corporate limits of the
city, the developer or other person or entity seeking such street acceptance
shall tender for approval by the city the proposed name by which the street
shall be known.
   (B)   If it is determined by the city that the proposed name by which the
street is to be known is the same as or deceptively similar to an existing city
street, the name of the street shall be changed prior to acceptance of the
street by the city so that its designation shall not be the same as or
deceptively similar to any existing city street.
(Ord. passed 12-3-90)
§ 150.24 OBSTRUCTION OF WATER FLOW ALONG CITY STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No structure shall be constructed or otherwise placed in such manner
that the flow and/or drainage of water along a public right-of-way, including
city streets shall in any manner be impeded.
   (B)   The contour of real property shall in no manner be changed, by grading
or otherwise, in such manner that the flow and/or drainage of water along a
public right-of-way, including city streets, shall in any manner be impeded.
(Ord. passed 1-3-84) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.25 DIRECTOR TO BE NOTIFIED OF ENCROACHMENTS.
   Any person who constructs any structure of changes the contour of any real
property within the city, which encroaches upon or results in an encroachment
upon a public right-of-way shall immediately inform the Public Works Director.
(Ord. passed 1-3-84) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 DIRECTOR TO INSPECT ENCROACHMENTS FOR OBSTRUCTION OF WATER FLOW;
DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   The Public Works Director of the city shall inspect all structures and
all changes in the contour of real property which encroach upon or result in
the encroachment upon any public right-of-way within the city so as to assure
that no obstruction of the flow and/or drainage of water along the said public
right-of-way has been created.
   (B)   Upon a determination by the Public Works Director that no encroachment
which impedes the flowage of water along a public right-of-way has occurred, he
shall certify his approval to the owner of the affected property in writing.
   (C)   Upon a determination by the Public Works Director that an encroachment
which impedes the flow of water along a public right-of-way has occurred, he
shall inform the owner of the affected property who shall remove the
encroachment within ten days of such notification. The failure to remove the
encroachment within ten days of such notification shall be deemed a public
nuisance.
(Ord. passed 1-3-84)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not more
than $250 for each violation.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be prosecuted for a violation of the pertinent state statute and
shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Violators of the State Building Code shall be prosecuted for a
violation of the pertinent state statute and shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $10 nor more than $1,000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall be prosecuted for
a violation of the pertinent state statute and shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $25 nor more than $1,000, imprisonment for not more than 60 days,
or both, for each offense.
(KRS 227.990(1))
      (3)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, for
each offense.
(KRS 318.990) (Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 151: RESERVED
CHAPTER 152: UNSAFE AND UNFIT STRUCTURES
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.01A   Prohibition of unsafe and unfit structures
   
152.02   Procedure for designation of structure as unsafe
   
152.03   Conditions constituting unfit or unsafe structures
   
152.04   Leitchfield Code Enforcement Board to issue order to owner
   
152.05   Repair, vacation or demolition of structure on failure of owner to
act; costs create a lien
   
152.06   Service of notice
   
152.07   Notice of lien for expenses
   
152.08   Powers of the Public Officer
Registration of Certain Vacant Residential Properties
   
152.20   Purpose
   
152.21   Definitions
   
152.22   Registration
   
152.23   Maintenance
   
152.24   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEARING OFFICER. Members of the Leitchfield Code Enforcement Board.
   OWNER. The holder of any title in fee simple and every mortgage of record.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who have
interests of record in a structure and/or who are in possession thereof.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any officer who is in charge of any department or branch
of the government of the city, county or state relating to health, fire,
building regulations, or to other activities concerning structures in the city.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. The City of Leitchfield Code Enforcement Officer.
   STRUCTURE. Any building or part thereof, used or occupied, or intended for
use or occupancy, for human habitation, or commercial or industrial purposes,
and includes any outbuildings and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually
enjoyed therewith as well as mobile or manufactured homes as defined in KRS
227.550.
(Ord. passed 9-16-74; Am. Ord. 2002-13, passed 8-8-02; Am. Ord. 2011- 09,
passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 2021-13, passed 11-15-21)
§ 152.01A PROHIBITION OF UNSAFE OR UNFIT STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a property to permit any structure
upon the property to become unfit and unsafe for human habitation, occupancy or
use or to permit conditions to exist in the structure which are dangerous or
injurious to the health or safety of the occupants of the structure, the
occupants of neighboring, structures or other residents of the city. Such
conditions include the following, without limiting the generality of the
foregoing: defects increasing the hazard of fire, accident or other calamities;
lack of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary facilities; dilapidation or
disrepair; structural defects; accumulation of filth.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 8-15-11)
§ 152.02 PROCEDURE FOR DESIGNATION OF STRUCTURE AS UNSAFE.
   (A)   Whenever a petition is filed by the Public Officer or at least five
residents of the city charging that any structure is unfit for human
habitation, occupancy, or use as defined in §
152.01A, or whenever it appears to the Public Officer (of his or her own
motion) that any structure is unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use as
defined above, the Public Officer shall, if his or her preliminary
investigation of the contents of the petition discloses a basis for such
charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest
in such structure a complaint stating the charges in that respect. The
complaint shall state that a hearing will be held before the City of
Leitchfield Code Enforcement Board at a place and time therein fixed not less
than ten days nor more than 60 days after the serving of the complaint; that
the owner and parties in interest may file an answer to the complaint and
appear in person or otherwise, and give testimony and present evidence at the
place and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules of evidence
prevailing in courts of law shall not be controlling in hearings before the
City of Leitchfield Code Enforcement Board.
   (B)   At any hearing before the Hearing Officer, the property owner or any
party in interest shall have the right to be represented by counsel, present
relevant evidence, cross-examine witnesses and have the proceedings recorded by
a court reporter. Provided, however, that the property owner and/or any party
in interest shall bear the expense of his or her attorney and/or the court
reporter.
(Ord. passed 9-16-74; Am. Ord. 2002-13, passed 8-8-02; Am. Ord. 2011- 09,
passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 2021-13, passed 11-15-21)
§ 152.03 CONDITIONS CONSTITUTING UNFIT OR UNSAFE STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The Hearing Officer may determine that a structure is a public
nuisance due to being unsafe or unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use if
it is found that conditions exist which are described in §
152.01A.
   (B)   Additional standards to guide the Hearing Officer, or his agents, in
determining the fitness of a structure for human habitation, occupancy or use,
may be provided by ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. passed 9-16-74; Am. Ord. 2002-13, passed 8-8-02; Am. Ord. 2011-09, passed
8-15-11)
§ 152.04 LEITCHFIELD CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD TO ISSUE ORDER TO OWNER.
   (A)   If after the notice and hearing the City of Leitchfield Code
Enforcement Board determines that the structure under consideration is unfit
for human habitation, occupancy or use, the City of Leitchfield Code
Enforcement Board shall state in writing the findings of fact in support of
such determination and present same to the City Council. After its approval, he
or she shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order
requiring the owner to (within the reasonable time specified in the order):
      (1)   Repair, alter, or improve the structure to render it fit for
habitation, occupancy or use; or
      (2)   Remove or demolish the structure if the repair, alteration, or
improvement of the structure cannot be made at a cost that is less than not
more than 50% of the value of the structure.
   (B)   Unless imminent danger exists on the subject property that
necessitates immediate action, the city shall send, within 14 days of a final
determination after hearing or waiver of hearing by the property owner, a copy
of the determination to any lien holder of record of the subject property by
first-class mail with proof of mailing. The lien holder of record may, within
45 days from receipt of that notice, correct the violations cited or elect to
pay all fines, penalty charges and costs incurred in remedying the situation as
permitted by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-16-74; Am. Ord. 2002-13, passed 8-8-02; Am. Ord. 2011- 09,
passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 2021-13, passed 11-15-21)
§ 152.05 REPAIR, VACATION OR DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURE ON FAILURE OF OWNER TO
ACT; COSTS CREATE A LIEN.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve, the Public Officer may cause the structure to be repaired, altered,
improved, or vacated and closed. The Public Officer may cause to be posted on
the main entrance of any structure so closed, a placard with the following
words:
      “This building is unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use; the use
or occupation of this building for human habitation, occupancy or use, is
prohibited and unlawful.”
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
structure (as set forth in §
152.04(B)), the Public Officer may cause such structure to be removed or
demolished.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien, against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the situation. The affidavit of
the responsible Public Officer or his or her designee shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings
pursuant to this chapter and shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest thereafter until paid. The lien created shall take
precedence over all other liens, except state, county, school board and city
taxes provided that the notice to any lien holder as specified in §
152.04. The lien provided herein shall not take precedence or priority over a
previously recorded lien if the city failed to provide the lien holder a copy
of the determination in accordance with §
152.04 or if the lien holder which received a copy of the determination as
required by §
152.04 corrected the violation or paid the fines, penalty charges and costs
incurred in remedying the violation.
   (D)   As set forth above, the amount of the cost of repairs, alterations, or
improvements; or of vacation and closing; or of removal or demolition shall be
a lien upon the real property upon which such cost was incurred. If the
structure is removed or demolished by the Public Officer, he shall sell the
marketable materials of the structure and shall credit the proceeds of such
sale against the cost of the removal or demolition. Any balance remaining shall
be deposited in the office of the Grayson County Circuit Court Clerk by the
Public Officer and shall be disbursed by such court to the persons found to be
entitled thereto by final order or decree of the court.
   (E)   Additionally, the city may seek such judicial relief in the Grayson
Circuit Court as may be appropriate, including but not limited to equitable
relief. Pursuant to KRS 331.770, the owner of a property upon which a lien has
been attached pursuant to this section shall be personally liable for the
amount of the lien, including all interest, civil penalties,, and other
charges.
(Ord. passed 9-16-74; Am. Ord. 2002-13, passed 8-8-02; Am. Ord. 2011-09, passed
8-15-11)
§ 152.06 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service under this chapter shall be made by certified mail, return receipt
requested, addressed to the owner at his last known address as shown by the tax
rolls of the city, unless the Public Officer shall be aware of a different
address, and such fact shall be endorsed upon the complaint or notice. Service
upon a lien holder shall be by first class mail with proof of mailing.
(Ord. passed 9-16-74; Am. Ord. 2011-09, passed 8-15-11)
§ 152.07 NOTICE OF LIEN FOR EXPENSES.
   The expense of enforcing this chapter shall be chargeable to the public
works budget of the city and the Public Officer shall cause to be filed in the
Grayson County Clerk's office a notice of lien for the reasonable expenses
incurred in performing the duties imposed upon him against the real property as
required by §
152.05 hereof.
(Ord. passed 9-16-74; Am. Ord. 2002-13, passed 8-8-02; Am. Ord. 2011-09, passed
8-15-11)
§ 152.08 POWERS OF THE PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The Public Officer shall, in addition to the powers hereinabove set forth,
have the following powers to:
   (A)   Investigate the structural conditions in the city in order to
determine which structures therein are unfit for human habitation, occupancy,
or use;
   (B)   Present evidence, examine witnesses and receive evidence;
   (C)   Enter upon premises open to public view for the purposes of making
examinations, but such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause the
least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
   (D)   Appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and employees as
he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter; and
   (E)   Delegate any of his functions and powers under this chapter to such
officers and agents as he designates.
(Ord. passed 9-16-74; Am. Ord. 2002-13, passed 8-8-02; Am. Ord. 2011-09, passed
8-15-11)
REGISTRATION OF CERTAIN VACANT RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES
§ 152.20 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to establish a vacant
residential property registration and maintenance program as a mechanism to
protect neighborhoods and minimize hazards to persons and property as a result
of the vacancy.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 6-16-14)
§ 152.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CREDITOR.  A federal or state chartered bank, savings bank, and savings and
loan association, or credit union, and any entity acting on behalf of the
creditor named in the debt obligation including, but not limited to, servicers.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.  Real property with one to four dwelling units.
   VACANT.  A residential property with no legal resident or tenant. Evidence
of vacancy includes any condition that on its own, or combined with other
conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property
is vacant. Such conditions include but are not limited to overgrown or dead
vegetation, accumulation of flyers, mail, or trash, disconnected utilities, the
absence of window coverings or furniture, and statements by neighbors, delivery
persons or government employees.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 6-16-14)
§ 152.22 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Prior to filing a complaint of foreclosure or executing a deed in lieu
of foreclosure on residential property located in the city, a creditor shall
inspect the property to determine whether the property is vacant. If the
property is vacant, the creditor shall, on the same day the complaint of
foreclosure is filed or the deed in lieu of foreclosure is executed, register
the property as a vacant property with the City Clerk’s Office for the purpose
of minimizing hazards to persons and property as a result of the vacancy.
   (B)   If a residential property becomes vacant at any time after a creditor
files a complaint of foreclosure or executes a deed in lieu of foreclosure, but
prior to vesting of title in the creditor or a third party, the creditor shall
within ten business days after obtaining knowledge of the vacancy, register the
property as vacant property with the city by filing the registration
information with the City Clerk’s Office.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 6-16-14)
§ 152.23 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Registration of a residential property as a vacant property shall
include the address of the property and the name and contact information of a
person located within the Commonwealth of Kentucky who is authorized to accept
service of process or such other official notices as may be required on behalf
of the creditor.
   (B)   If a residential property becomes or remains vacant as provided in §
152.22, but prior to vesting of title in the creditor or any third party, and
the city determines the property is in violation of any ordinance regulating a
nuisance, the city may notify the creditor of the violation by providing notice
of the violation by certified mail, return receipt requested to the person
identified in division (A) of this section, and may require the creditor to
correct the violation to the extent consistent with the terms of the mortgage.
   (C)   A notice of violation shall include a description of the conditions
that give rise to the violation and provide a period of not less than 20 days
from the creditor’s receipt of the notice for the creditor to timely remedy the
violation.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 6-16-14)
§ 152.24 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If the creditor fails to remedy the violation within the stated
period, the city may issue a citation and impose penalties against the creditor
for violation of any ordinance regulating a nuisance as well a violation of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Any creditor that fails to register vacant residential property with
the city or shall violate the terms of this ordinance shall be guilty of a
violation as defined in the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (C)   Civil violations of this subchapter shall be enforced by the City of
Leitchfield Code Enforcement Board or a court of appropriate jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 6-16-14; Am. Ord. 2021-14, passed 11-15-21)
CHAPTER 153: PLANNING AND ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Enacting clause
   
153.003   Purpose
   
153.004   Interpretation
   
153.005   Conflicts
   
153.006   Plans; construction in progress
   
153.007   Separability
   
153.008   Definitions
Administration; Enforcement
   
153.025   Administration
   
153.026   Building permits required
   
153.027   Building, demolition or zoning permit issuance; fee
   
153.028   Compliance
   
153.029   Certificate of occupancy required
   
153.030   Authorized use
   
153.031   Complaints
   
153.032   Jurisdiction
   
153.033   Violations; remedies
Planning Commission
   
153.050   Members; term; vacancies
   
153.051   Appointments
   
153.052   Meetings
   
153.053   Powers; duties
   
153.054   Compensation
Board of Adjustments
   
153.075   Established; members; term; vacancies
   
153.076   Compensation
   
153.077   Meetings
   
153.078   Quorum; conflicts of interest
   
153.079   Minutes
   
153.080   Powers; duties
   
153.081   Bylaws
   
153.082   Administrative review
   
153.083   Conditional uses
   
153.084   Variances
   
153.085   Appeals
   
153.086   Application of variance
Zoning Districts; General Provisions
   
153.100   Zoning district map
   
153.101   Interpretation of zone; district boundaries
   
153.102   Application of zoning district regulations
   
153.103   Conversion of dwelling structures
   
153.104   Use exemptions
Zoning Districts; Established
   
153.125   Establishment of zoning districts
   
153.126   A Agricultural
   
153.127   RR Rural residential single family
   
153.128   R-1 Single family low density
   
153.129   R-2 Single family medium density
   
153.130   R-3 Single family manufactured
   
153.131   R-4 Two-family
   
153.132   R-5 Multi-family
   
153.133   R-6 Single family manufactured home parks
   
153.134   B-1 Neighborhood business district
   
153.135   B-2 Central business district
   
153.136   C-1 Highway commercial district
   
153.137   I-1 Light industrial
   
153.138   I-2 Heavy industrial
   
153.139   P-1 Public area
   
153.140   R-2A Single family high density
   
153.141   Exclusive use zones
General Regulations
   
153.150   Coordination with subdivision regulations
   
153.151   Conditional uses
   
153.152   Non-conforming uses; structures
   
153.153   Required street frontage
   
153.154   Height
   
153.155   Rear dwelling prohibited
   
153.156   Reductions in lot area prohibited
   
153.157   Approved sewerage disposal
   
153.158   Regulation of principal buildings
   
153.159   Sinkholes
   
153.160   Flood plains
   
153.161   Medical cannabis permitted zones, regulations, and uses
Lots; Yards
   
153.175   Obstructions
   
153.176   Building setback lines
   
153.177   Corner lots setback requirements
   
153.178   Double-frontage lots
   
153.179   Application of yards to one building only
   
153.180   Use of yards for accessory buildings
Signs; Outdoor Advertising
   
153.200   Classification
   
153.201   Location
   
153.202   Size; placement
   
153.203   Lighting; noise
   
153.204   Maintenance; compliance
   
153.205   Non-conforming signs; advertising structures
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
153.225   Parking requirements; change in principal use
   
153.226   Minimum design; maintenance requirements
   
153.227   Automobile requirements
   
153.228   Additional regulations
Manufactured Housing
   
153.250   Permitted
   
153.251   Foundations
   
153.252   Anchorage; tie-downs
Manufactured Home Parks
   
153.275   Permitted
   
153.276   Lot requirements
   
153.277   Setbacks
   
153.278   Frontage
   
153.279   Spacing
   
153.280   Streets
   
153.281   Parking
   
153.282   Utilities
   
153.283   Accessory structures
   
153.284   Foundations
   
153.285   Anchorage; tie-downs
   
153.286   Connecting structures
   
153.287   Procedure
   
153.288   Zoning permits
   
153.289   Certificate of compliance
   
153.290   Enforcement
   
153.291   Existing housing units
   
153.292   Conflicts
Apartment Houses
   
153.300   Permitted
   
153.301   Area; density requirements
   
153.302   Yard requirements
   
153.303   Lot coverage
   
153.304   Off-street parking
   
153.305   Procedure
Junk Yards
   
153.325   Classifications
   
153.326   Regulations
Walls; Fences
   
153.350   Requirements; exceptions
   
153.351   Publicly dedicated alleys
   
153.352   Industrial zone yards
Conforming Uses; Exceptions
   
153.375   Use exceptions
   
153.376   Height exceptions
   
153.377   Lots of record
Development Requirements
   
153.400   Adjacent to residential districts
   
153.401   Structures on corner lots
   
153.402   Sign requirements
   
153.403   Development characteristics
   
153.404   Buffer areas
   
153.405   Development plans
   
153.406   Lot sizes; building scales
Fees; Charges
   
153.425   Schedule of Fees; charges; expenses
   
153.426   Rezoning requests
   
153.427   Building; zoning permits
   
153.428   Conditional use permit
   
153.429   Variance request
Amendments
   
153.450   Zoning text amendments
   
153.451   Map amendment procedures
   
153.452   Pre-application conference
   
153.453   Commission procedure
   
153.454   Notice
   
153.455   Posting subject property
   
153.456   Public hearing
   
153.457   Recommendations of commission
   
153.458   Necessary findings
 
   
153.999   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Hearing procedures prior to appointment to a board or commission, see §
32.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE
   This chapter shall be known as the "Zoning Code for Leitchfield, Kentucky"
hereinafter referred to as "the Zoning Code." The map herein referred to, which
is identified by the title "Leitchfield Zoning District Map", Planning
Commission adoption dated June 4, 1999, City Council adoption dated July
19,1999, effective date January 1, 2000, thereon, is hereby adopted and made a
part of this code.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.002 ENACTING CLAUSE
   Pursuant to the authority granted by the Kentucky Constitution, and KRS
Chapter 100, §§ 100.201 through 100.271, the city hereby adopts this zoning
code to regulate and restrict the height, number of stories, size of buildings
and other structures, the percentage of lots that may be occupied, the size of
yards, courts and open spaces the density of population and the location and
use of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence or other
purposes. The city shall be divided into districts as hereinafter described and
the regulations, restrictions, and boundaries of the districts shall be
established, enforced, and amended as provided in this zoning code.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
Cross reference:
   Amendments, see §§
153.450 –
153.458
§ 153.003 PURPOSE
   The zoning code and districts as herein set forth have been made in
accordance with the city's Comprehensive Plan for the purpose of promoting the
public health, safety, goals, and convenience, order, prosperity, and general
welfare of the community. The regulations have been designed to lessen
congestion in the streets to secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers,
to provide adequate light and air, to prevent the overcrowding of land, to
avoid undue concentration of population, to facilitate the adequate provision
of transportation, water, sewerage control, schools, parks, and other public
requirements. They have been made with reasonable consideration, among other
things, as to the character of each district and its peculiar suitability for
particular uses, and with a view of conserving the value of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the city.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.004 INTERPRETATION
   The provisions herein shall be interpreted uniformly so as to implement and
protect the purposes for which they are enacted. In the interpretation and
application of this chapter, the provisions herein shall be held to be of the
minimum or maximum requirements (as stated); adopted for the promotion of the
health, safety, morals, comfort, prosperity, well-being and general welfare. It
is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abdicate, annul or in any way impair
or interfere with any private restrictions placed upon property such as
covenants, deeds or recorded plats; provided, however, where this chapter
imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or upon the
height of buildings or requires greater lot areas, larger yards or other open
spaces, than are imposed by such private restrictions, the provisions of this
chapter shall control.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.005 CONFLICTS
   Whenever this chapter, or subdivision plats or development plans approved in
conformance with these regulations, is in conflict with applicable Kentucky
Revised Statutes, or other local ordinances, regulations or laws, the more
restrictive statute, ordinance, regulations, plat or plan shall govern and
shall be enforced by the appropriate local agency. When subdivision and
development plans, approved by the Planning Commission, contain setbacks or
other features in excess of the minimum chapter requirements, such features as
shown on the approved plans shall govern. Private deed restrictions or private
convenants for a subdivision do not fall within the jurisdiction of enforcement
by any local agency and cannot be enforced by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.006 PLANS; CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS
   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require
a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building or
premises on which an application for a permit was filed with the Planning
Commission prior to the date of adoption of the zoning code or amendment
thereto, providing that the application meets all zoning and other requirements
in effect on the date of the application. The permit issued pursuant to
applications made before the date of adoptions of the code shall be valid only
if it is exercised within one year of the date of issuance of the permit.
"Exercised" as set forth in this section, shall mean that a binding contract
for the construction of the main building or other main improvements are under
construction, or that prerequisite conditions involving substantial investments
shall be under contract, in development or completed. When construction is not
a part of the use, "exercised" shall mean that the use is in operation in
compliance with the conditions set forth in the permit. Building/zoning permits
are not required for routine maintenance, repairs, and renovations not
increasing the size of a structure.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.007 SEPARABILITY.
   If any clause, sentence, subdivision, paragraph, section or part of this
chapter be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such
judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder thereof, but
shall be confined in its operation to the clause, sentence, paragraph, section
or part thereof directly involved in the controversy in which the judgment
shall have been rendered.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.008 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context indicates or clearly requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the singular number include the plural, words in the plural
number include the singular.
   ABANDONED SIGN.  An on-premises sign, the use for which it represents having
been discontinued for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure subordinate to the principal
use or building on a lot and serving a purpose customarily incidental thereto,
including structures such as satellite antennas.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL.  Any department, employee or advisory, elected or
appointed body which is authorized to administer any provision of the zoning
code, subdivision regulations, and if delegated, any provision of any housing
or building regulation or any other land use control regulation.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of a tract of land of at least five (5) contiguous
acres for the production of agricultural or horticultural crops, including but
not limited to livestock, livestock products, poultry, poultry products, grain,
hay, pastures, soybeans, tobacco, timber, orchard fruits, vegetables, flowers,
or ornamental plants, including provisions for dwellings for person and their
families who are engaged in the above agricultural use of the tract, but not
including residential building development for sale or lease to the public.
   ALLEY.  A public or private vehicular way which affords a means of access to
the rear or side of properties adjacent to it and not intended for general
traffic circulation.
   ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building such as
bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
   APARTMENT HOUSE.  Any building which is designed, built, rented, leased, let
or hired out to be occupied, or which is occupied as the home or residence of
more than two families living independently of each other with cooking
facilities for each family.
   ASSEMBLY.  A joining together of completely fabricated parts to create a
finished product.
   BASEMENT.  An area below the first floor, having part but no more than one-
half (1/2) of it's height above grade, used for storage space by occupants of
the building, janitor quarters, or other  utilities common to the rest of the
building. A basement used for the above purposes shall not be counted as a
story.
   BASIC MANUFACTURE. The first operation or operation which transforms a
material from its raw state to a form suitable for fabrication.
   BED & BREAKFAST.  An establishment providing lodging and meals in a
residential setting for overnight paying guest.
   BILLBOARDS. Any notice or advertisement, pictorial or otherwise, with an
area of three hundred (300) or more square feet, and also those used as an
outdoor display for the purpose of making anything known, the origin or place
of sale of which is not on the plot with such display, except that governmental
notices shall not be considered as billboards.
   BUFFER AREA.  A strip of land which is located along the perimeter of a
piece of property and is a minimum of five (5) feet wide and contains all
perimeter landscaping as specified in this chapter; e.g.. open spaces,
landscaped areas (including screen trees), fences, walls, berms, or any
combination thereof used to physically separate or screen one (1) use or
property from another so as to visually shield or block noise, lights, or other
nuisances.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0a7f085670c463c775192c7f1fb4ba4dd8c3069b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1673.jpg]
 
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property; to include
fences.
   BUILDING PERMIT.  A document issued by the administrative official
authorizing the use of lots, structures, uses of land and structures, and the
characteristics of the uses consisting of written permission for the
construction of or addition to a structure. Such a permit is issued in the
application of building codes. Building permits are to be issued by the city
for residential and commercial construction activities.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE.  A line in the interior of a lot which is generally
parallel to, and a specified distance from, the street right-of-way line or
lines. No building shall then be placed in the space between the building
setback line and the right-of-way.
   CAMPGROUND. A plot of ground upon which two or more campsites are located,
established, or maintained for occupancy by camping units such as temporary
living quarters for recreation, education, or vacation purposes only (forty-
five (45) consecutive days or less).
   CANNABIS BUSINESS. An entity licensed under KRS 218B as a cultivator,
dispensary, processor, producer, or safely compliance facility. Such licensed
businesses shall not be located within one thousand (1,000) feet of an existing
elementary or secondary school or a daycare center. For the purpose of this
regulation, one thousand (1,000) feet shall be measured in a straight line from
the nearest property line of an existing elementary school, secondary school,
or daycare center to the nearest property line of the proposed location of a
cannabis business.
   CARPORT. Space for the housing or storage of motor vehicles, camper
trailers, or boats and enclosed on not more than two (2) sides by walls.
   CELLULAR ANTENNA. Any structure or device used to collect or radiate
electromagnetic waves, including both directional antennas, such as panels,
microwave dishes and satellite dishes, and omni-directional antennas, such as
whips, at frequencies on the electromagnetic spectrum as the FCC from time to
time may designate, used for cellular telecommunications services and/or
personal communications services, but not including such structures or devices
when used for the broadcast of television, AM or FM radio stations or for
citizens' band or amateur radio use. Examples of cellular telecommunications or
personal communications services include paging, public safety, data
transmission, specialized Mobile Radio, Enhanced Specialized Mobile Radio, and
other commercial private radio services., but are not limited to, cellular
telephone,
   CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWER. Any structure that is designed and constructed
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more cellular antennas. This
includes guyed towers, lattice towers, monopoles, alternative cellular antenna
tower structures and towers taller than fifteen (15) feet constructed on the
top of another building, along with any separate building on the lot used to
house any supporting electronic equipment.
   CENTER LINE OF A STREET. The center of the surfaced roadway or the surveyed
center line of the street, as defined by the City Engineer or authorized
representative.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY . A document issued by a governmental authority
allowing the occupancy or use of a building and certifying that the structure
or use has been constructed and will be used in compliance with all the
applicable municipal codes and ordinances.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility providing direct care and protection of five
(5) or more infants, preschool, and school age children outside of their own
homes during a portion of a twenty-four (24) hour day.
   CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship, and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship.
   CLUB, PRIVATE. Buildings and facilities, the purpose of which is to render a
social, educational, or recreational service to members and their guests and
not primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a business or to
render a profit. Private club shall include country club.
   CO-LOCATION. Locating one (1) or more cellular antennas for more than one
(1) provider on single cellular antenna tower or alternative cellular tower
structure on a single lot.
   COMMERCIAL WAREHOUSE. A building or portion thereof used for storage of any
property not permitted in a residential storage warehouse. This shall not be
deemed to include the storage area in connection with a purely retail business
when located on the same property.
   COMMISSION. The Leitchfield Planning Commission.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A comprehensive, long-range plan intended to guide the
growth and development of a community or region that typically includes
inventory and analytic sections leading to recommendations for the community's
future economic development, housing, recreation, and open space,
transportation, community facilities, and land use, all related to the
community's goals and objectives for these elements.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use which is essential to or would promote the public
health, safety or welfare in one (1) or more zones, but which would impair the
integrity and character of the zone in which it is located, or in adjoining
zones, unless restrictions on location, size, extent, and character of
performance are imposed in addition to those imposed in the zoning code.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.  A legal authorization to undertake a conditional
use, issued by the administrative official pursuant to authorization by the
Board of Adjustment, consisting of two (2) parts:
   (A)   A statement of the factual determination by the Board of Adjustments
which justifies the issuance of the permit; and
   (B)   A statement of the specific conditions, which must be met in order for
the use to be permitted.
   DETACHED STRUCTURE. A structure having no common wall with another principal
structure. Common walls with accessory structures are allowed.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A non-commercial sign of an instructional nature, such as
"parking", "exit" or "entrance", displayed solely for the convenience of the
public. No more than twenty-five percent (25%) of such sign shall be devoted to
the name or logo of the property, business or profession on the site and
containing no business advertising, product trade name identification or
listing of any product sold or offered on the premises.
   DWELLING UNIT. One (1) or more rooms, designed, occupied, or intended for
occupancy as a separate living quarter, with cooking, sleeping, and sanitary
facilities provided within the dwelling unit for the exclusive use of a single
family maintaining a household.
   FABRICATION. Manufacturing, excluding the refining or other initial
processing of basic raw materials such as metal ores, lumber, or rubber.
Fabrication relates to stamping, cutting, or otherwise shaping the processed
materials into useful objects.
   FAMILY. One (1) or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
nonprofit housekeeping unit.
   FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination of
materials erected to enclose, screen, or separate areas.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any site, or tract of land under single ownership,
upon which three or more manufactured homes used for habitation are parked,
either free of charge or for revenue purposes; including any roadway, building,
structure, vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the
facilities of such park. A MANUFACTURED HOME PARK may only be located in an R-
6 district.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING. A manufactured building designed for long-term
residential use having the following features or characteristics: (1) mass
produced in a factory, (2) designed and constructed for transportation to a
site for installation and use when connected to required utilities, and (3) an
independent, individual building on the site; i.e.. any structure fabricated in
an off-site manufacturing facility for installation at the building site as a
permanent structure with transport features removed, bearing a seal certifying
that it was built in compliance with the federal Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Code as set forth in the Code of Federal
Regulations, Title 24, Part 3280, 3282,3283 and 42 USC Section 5401, and as
mandated by the United States of America and as administered by the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development and commonly referred to as
the HUD Code. Such single family structures must meet the National Manufactured
Home Construction and Safety Standards Act (42 U.S.C. Sec. 5401) commonly know
as the HUD (U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development) Code, as well as
the Kentucky Building Code structural and installation requirements.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY.  Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing,
testing, and similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and
extensive in character; require large sites, open storage, and service areas,
extensive services and facilities, ready access to regional transportation; and
normally generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration, dust, glare,
air pollution, and water pollution, but not beyond the district boundary.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are
usually controlled operations; relatively clean, quiet, and free of
objectionable hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor, or dust; operating
and storing within enclosed structures; and generating little industrial
traffic and no nuisance.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MEDICINAL CANNABIS. Marijuana as defined in KRS 218A.010 when cultivated,
harvested, processed, produced, transported, dispensed, distributed, sold,
possessed, or used in accordance with KRS 218B. This definition includes
medicinal cannabis products and raw plant material; but does not include
industrial hemp or industrial hemp products as defined in KRS 260.850.
   MEDICINAL CANNABIS CULTIVATOR. A business that is licensed in compliance
with KRS 218B  to:
   (A)   Acquire, possess, plant, cultivate, raise, harvest, trim, or store
cannabis seeds, seedlings, plants, or raw plant material;
   (B)   Deliver, transport, transfer, supply, or sell raw plant material or
related supplies to other licensed cannabis business in this state; and
   (C)   Sell cannabis seeds or seedlings to similar entities that are licensed
to cultivate cannabis in this state or in any other jurisdiction.
   (D)   MEDICINAL CANNABIS CULTIVATORS are regulated by KRS 218B in four (4)
tiers, as follows:
      (1)   A Tier I cultivator shall not exceed an indoor growth area of two
thousand five hundred (2.500) square feet.
      (2)   A Tier II cultivator shall not exceed an indoor growth area of ten
thousand (10,000) square feet.
      (3)   A Tier Ill cultivator shall not exceed an indoor growth area of
twenty-five thousand (25,000{'}'} square feet.
      (4)   A Tier IV cultivator shall not exceed an indoor growth area of
fifty thousand (50 ,000) square feet.
   MEDICINAL CANNABIS DISPENSARY. A business that is licensed in compliance
with KRS 218B to:
   (A)   Acquire or possess medicinal cannabis from a cultivator, processor, or
producer in this state:
   (B)   Acquire or possess medicinal cannabis accessories or educational
materials:
   (C)   Supply, sell, dispense, distribute, or deliver medicinal cannabis,
medicinal cannabis accessories. and educational material to cardholders or
other dispensaries:
   (D)   Sell cannabis seeds to similar entities that are licensed to cultivate
cannabis in this state or in any other jurisdiction: or
   (E)   Acquire, accept, or receive medicinal cannabis products from a
cardholder pursuant to KRS 218B.110.
   MEDICINAL CANNABIS PROCESSOR. A business that is licensed in compliance with
KRS 218B to:
   (A)   Acquire or purchase raw plant material from a cultivator, processor,
or producer in this state;
   (B)   Possess. process. prepare, manufacture, manipulate, blend, or package
medicinal cannabis;
   (C)   Transfer, transport. supply, or sell medicinal cannabis and related
supplies to other cannabis businesses in this state; or
   (D)   Sell cannabis seeds or seedlings to similar entities that are licensed
to cultivate cannabis in this state or in any other jurisdiction.
   MEDICINAL CANNABIS PRODUCER. A business that is licensed in compliance with
KRS 218B to:
   (A)   Acquire, possess, plant, cultivate, raise, harvest, trim, or store
cannabis seeds, seedlings, plants, or raw plant material;
   (B)   Deliver, transport, transfer, supply, or sell raw plant material,
medicinal cannabis products, or related supplies to other licensed cannabis
businesses in this state;
   (C)   Sell cannabis seeds or seedlings to similar entities that are licensed
to cultivate cannabis in this state or in any other jurisdiction;
   (D)   Acquire or purchase raw plant material from a cultivator in this
state; or
   (E)   Possess, process, prepare, manufacture, manipulate, blend, or package
medicinal cannabis.
   MEDICINAL CANNABIS SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY. A business that is licensed
in compliance with KRS 218B to:
   (A)   Acquire or possess medicinal cannabis obtained from cardholders or
cannabis business in this state;
   (B)   Return the medicinal cannabis to cardholders or cannabis business in
this state;
   (C)   Transport medicinal cannabis that was produced by cannabis businesses
in this state;
   (D)   Produce or sell approved educational materials related to the use of
medicinal cannabis;
   (E)   Produce, sell, or transport equipment or materials other than
medicinal cannabis, including but not limited to lab equipment and packaging
materials that are used by cannabis businesses and cardholders, to cardholders
or cannabis businesses licensed in compliance with KRS 218B;
   (F)   Test medicinal cannabis produced in this state. including testing for
cannabinoid content, pesticides, mold, contamination, vitamin E acetate, and
other prohibited additives;
   (G)   Train cardholders and cannabis business agents;
   (H)   Receive compensation for actions allowed under KRS 218B.125; and
   (I)   Engage in any non-cannabis-related business activities that are not
otherwise prohibited or restricted by state law.
   MOBILE SIGNS. A sign which is affixed to a frame having wheels or capable of
being moved, or otherwise portable, which does not have a permanent foundation.
The mere removal of wheels or temporary securing of a sign to a surface of real
estate shall not prevent its being a mobile sign within this definition.
   MODULAR HOUSING UNIT.  A single-family residential unit that is built off-
site and transported to the site for assembly to become a permanent fixture
upon that property site. This type of housing includes a set of standards which
clarify the difference between manufactured homes and modular housing units,
such as:
   (A)   Has more than nine hundred fifty (950) feet of occupied space and is
composed on more than one (1) section;
   (B)   Is placed onto a permanent under floor support system in accordance
with specified installation standards: section 4.51; provided in §§
153.250 –
153.252.
   (C)   Is placed onto a permanent perimeter enclosure, in accordance with
certain installation standards;
   (D)   Has wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
   (E)   Has siding material of a type customarily used on site constructed
homes, such as board siding plywood or presswood siding, vinyl, stucco, brick,
non reflective aluminum, etc;
   (F)   Has roofing material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
homes, such as: wood, tile, composition shingles, or other materials compatible
with the conventionally built residential structures in the neighborhood which
shall be installed on a surface pitched at a minimum slope of 3:12.
   MULTI-FAMILY STRUCTURE. Any building which is designed, built, rented,
leased, let or hired out to be occupied, or which is occupied as the home or
residence or more than two families living independently of each other with
cooking facilities for each family. This definition does include apartment
houses, townhouses and condominium structures.
   MUSEUM. A non-profit, non-commercial establishment operated as a repository
or a collection of nature, scientific or literary curiosities or objects of
interest or works of art, not including the regular sale or distribution of the
objects collected.
   NON-CONFORMING USE OR STRUCTURE. An activity or a building, sign, structure,
or a portion thereof which lawfully existed before the adoption or amendment of
the zoning code, but which does not conform to all of the regulations contained
in the zoning code which pertains to the zone in which it is located.
   NURSERY, NURSING HOME.  A home or facility for the care and treatment of
babies, children, pensioners, or elderly people.
   OCCUPIED. Includes arranged, designed, or intended to be occupied.
   OFFICE.
   (A)   A room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of a
business, profession, service, industry, or government and generally furnished
with desks, tables, files and communication equipment.
   (B)   A professional office business establishment is considered to be
within an office building for the purposes of signage regulations when three
(3) or more of the following occur:
      1.   The establishments are within one (1) building;
      2.   The establishments are on the same lot;
      3.   The establishments share parking;
      4.   When the establishments are within more than one (1) building, the
buildings have similar setback, and
      5.   The establishments share ingress/egress.
   OFF-PREMISE SIGN. A sign that advertises goods, products, services or
facilities or directs persons to a different location from where the sign is
installed.
   ON-PREMISE SIGN. Any sign identifying or advertising a business, person,
activity, goods, products, or services located on the premises where the sign
is installed and maintained.
   OPEN SPACE. Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved and
set aside, dedicated, designated, or reserved for public or private use or
enjoyment or for the use and enjoyment of owners, occupants, and their guests
of land adjoining or neighboring such open space.
   PARISH HOUSE. A residence for a minister, priest or rabbi in connection with
the operation of a church or synagogue.
   PARING LOT OR AREA. An off street area used for the parking of any type of
vehicle, whether moving, or at rest, including but not limited to, parking
lots, loading and unloading areas, mobile home parks, and sales and services
areas. Driveways, access ways, aisles and maneuvering areas are also considered
a part of the parking lots or areas.
   PARKING SPACE. A space on private land, accessible from a street or alley,
not less than nine (9) feet wide and eighteen (18) feet long exclusive of
passageways.
   PERMITTED STRUCTURE. A structure meeting all the requirements established by
this ordinance for the district in which the structure is located.
   PERMITTED USE. Any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to the
restrictions applicable to that zoning district.
   PERSON. Includes association, firm, partnership, trust, governmental body,
corporation, organization, as well as an individual.
   PRESCHOOL. Day care and education of five or more children under legal age
to attend public or private grammar school.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. A building in which is conducted a principal or
conditional use. In any residential zone, any structure containing a dwelling
unit shall be deemed a principal structure on the lot on which the same is
located. Where a non-conforming use is the primary use of the property, the
building in which it is located shall be deemed a principal structure.
   PUBLIC USES. Public parks, schools, and administrative, and cultural,
buildings, and structures, not including public land or buildings devoted
solely to the storage and maintenance of equipment and materials and public
service facilities.
   RECREATION FACILITIES. Public or private facilities that may be classified
as either "extensive" or "intensive" depending upon the scope of services
offered and the extent of use. Extensive facilities generally require and
utilize considerable areas of land and include, but need not be limited to
hunting, fishing, and riding clubs, and parks. Intensive facilities generally
require less land (used more intensively) and include, but need not be limited
to, miniature gold courses, amusement parks, stadium, and bowling alleys.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any lot or parcel of land upon which two or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established, or maintained for
occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living
quarters for recreation or vacation purposes. (See Campground.)
   RECYCLING CENTER/PLANT. A lot of parcel of land, upon which used materials
are separated and processed for shipment for reuse in new products. A facility
in which recyclables, such as newspapers, magazines, books, and other paper
products; glass; metal cans; and other products, are recycled, reprocessed, and
treated to return such products to a condition in which they may again be used
in new products. Does not include junkyards.
   RESIDENTIAL STORAGE WAREHOUSE. (Mini-warehouse) A building or portion
thereof designed or used exclusively for storing the excess personal property
of an individual or family when such is not located on the lot with their
residence, such as passenger motor vehicle, house trailer, motorcycle, boat,
camper and other items of personal property generally stored in residential
accessory structures. An operation involving a warehouseman as provided for by
the Kentucky Revised Statutes will not be considered a mini-warehouse.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment where food and drink are prepared, served, and
consumed primarily within the principal building. (See Restaurant, Take-Out;
Retail Food Establishment.)
   RESTAURANT, TAKE-OUT. An establishment where food and/or beverages are sold
in a form ready for consumption, where all or a significant portion of the
consumption takes place or is designed to take place outside the confines of
the restaurant, and where ordering and pickup of food may take place from an
automobile.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. Any fixed facility in which food or drink is
offered or prepared primarily for retail sale.
   RETAIL SALES. Establishments engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the
general public for personal or household consumption.
   RETAIL SALES, OUTDOOR. The display and sale of products and services is
primarily outside of a building or structure, including vehicles, garden
supplies, gas, tires and motor oil, food and beverages, boats and aircraft,
farm equipment, motor homes, burial monuments, building and landscape
materials, and lumber yards.
   RIGHT OF WAY. A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In
addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting, and drainage facilities, and may include special features,
(required by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped
areas, viaducts, and bridges.
   ROAD. See "STREET"
   SEAT. For the purpose of determining the number of off-street parking spaces
for certain uses, the number of seats is the number of seating units installed
or indicated, or each twenty-four (24) lineal inches of benches, pews or space
for loose chairs.
   SETBACK LINE. That line that is the required minimum distance from any lot
line and that establishes the area within which the principal structure must be
erected or placed.
   SHALL. Is mandatory and not merely directive.
   SHORT-TERM RENTALS. Use arranged for stays of less than 30 days for rent or
lease in which accommodations are typically reserved through an online
reservation platform. SHORT-TERM RENTALS may or may not be owner-occupied
during the times of occupancy. Note the following:
   (A)   Use shall not adversely affect the uses permitted in the area and the
immediate neighborhood by excessive traffic generation, noise and light;
   (B)   Off street parking shall be available for all renters;
   (C)   The use shall be in compliance with all other applicable state and
local laws, including Grayson County Health Department regulations, building
codes, business registration and occupational licensing requirements;
   (D)   SHORT-TERM RENTAL uses do not allow commercial uses such as meetings,
seminars, tea/garden parties, weddings, receptions, or concerts unless such
uses are permitted by right in the underlying zoning district in which the
SHORT-TERM RENTAL use is located;
   (E)   A SHORT-TERM RENTAL license must be issued by the Planning Commission
office prior to operating such use; and
   (F)   All SHORT-TERM RENTALS are only allowed as a "permitted conditional
use."
   SIDEWALK. . That portion of the road right-of-way outside the roadway, which
is improved for the use of pedestrian traffic.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. A triangular-shaped portion of land established at street
intersections in which nothing is erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow
in such a manner as to limit or obstruct the sight distance of motorists
entering or leaving the intersection.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0a7f085670c463c775192c7f1fb4ba4dd8c3069b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1675.jpg]
 
   SIGN. Any writing, pictorial, representation, form, emblem, trademarks,
flag, banner, decoration (including material used to differentiate the sign
copy from the background) or any figure which is written, printed, projected,
painted constructed, or otherwise displayed upon or designed into a building,
board, plate, canopy, awning, window, vehicle, or upon any object or device
which by reason of form, color, wording, symbol, design, illumination, motion
or other characteristic is designed to attract attention to the subject thereof
or is used as a means of identification, advertisement, announcement or of
illustrating products.
   SPOT ZONING. Rezoning of a lot or parcel of land to benefit an owner for a
use incompatible with surrounding land uses and that do not meet the goals of
the comprehensive plan. Unreasonable spot zoning results in the following.
   (A)   A small parcel of land is singled out for special and privileged
treatment; and
   (B)   The singling out is not in the public interest but only for the
benefit of the land owner; and
   (C)   The action is not in accordance with the comprehensive plan.
   STREET. Any public or private way set aside for public travel 20 feet or
more in width. The word "STREET" shall include the words, road, highway, and
thoroughfare.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location as the ground. Among
other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences,
billboards, and poster panels.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY.  The lot, tract, or parcel of the land that
contains the telecommunications antenna, its support structure, any accessory
buildings, and parking, and may include other uses associated with and
ancillary to telecommunications transmission.
   TRAVEL TRAILER.  A non-self propelled vehicle intended for recreational
purposes only. Not allowed or intended to be used as a permanent or temporary
residence such as a mobile home.
   USE. The specific purposes for which land or a building is designated,
arranged or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
   USED. Includes arranged, designed, or intended to be used.
   VARIANCE.  A departure from the terms of the zoning code pertaining to
height or width of structures and size of yards and open spaces, where such
departures will not be contrary to the public interest, and where owing to
conditions peculiar to the property because of its size, shape or topography,
and not as a result of the actions of the applicant, the literal enforcement of
the zoning code would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
   VEHICULAR USE AREA.  A vehicular use area (VUA) is any open or unenclosed
area containing more than one thousand eight hundred (1,800) square feet of
area and/or used by five (5) or more of any type of vehicle, whether moving or
at rest, including but not limited to, parking lots, loading and unloading
areas, mobile home parks and sales and service areas. Driveways are considered
to be vehicular use elements described in this chapter (and intervening curbs,
sidewalks, landscape strips, etc., do not eliminate adjacency.)
   WALL.  One (1) of the sides of a room or building connecting floor and
ceiling or foundation and roof.
   YARD, FRONT. An open space extending the full width of the lot between a
principal structure and the front lot line; unoccupied and unobstructed from
the ground upward. The depth of a front yard is the shortest distance measured
perpendicularly between any part of a building and the front lot line.
   YARD, REAR.  An open extending the full width of a lot between a principal
structure and the rear lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward. The depth of a rear yard is the shortest distance measured
perpendicularly between any part of a building and the rear lot line.
   YARD, SECONDARY FRONT An open space extending the full width of the lot
between a principal structure and the secondary front lot line of a corner lot,
unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward. The secondary front yard
will be that front yard that is parallel to the side exposure of the principal
structure, or the rear exposure of the principal structure in the case of lot
with three front yards. The depth of the secondary front yard is the shortest
distance measured perpendicularly between any part of a building and the
secondary front lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. An open space between a principal structure and a side lot line,
unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward. The width of a side yard is
the shortest distance measured perpendicularly between any part of a building
and the nearest side lot line.
   ZONING PERMIT. A document issued by the administrative official as a
condition precedent to  the commencement of a use, or the erection,
construction, reconstruction, restoration, alteration, conversion, or
installation of a structure or building, that acknowledges that such use,
structure, or building complies with the provisions of the zoning ordinance or
authorized variance therefrom. Zoning permits are issued to ensure compliance
with the zoning ordinance and map.
   (A)   A zoning permit is required for multi-family, business, commercial and
industrial structures.
   (B)   A building/construction permit is required for new residential single-
family, single-family manufactured/modular, and two-family, multi-family,
business, commercial and industrial structures. This permit is also required
for the construction of an auxiliary structure, an addition to an existing
structure and signs.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-5-04; Am. Ord. 2018-09,
passed 5-7-18; Am. Ord. 2021-20, passed 12-20-21; Am. Ord. 2024-31, passed 12-
16-24)
ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.025 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission and its authorized agent or inspector shall
administer and enforce this chapter.
   (B)   The Commission and its authorized agent or inspector shall have the
authority to make inspection of buildings and premises necessary to carry out
their duties in administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.026 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Required prior to construction or alteration. It shall be unlawful to
commence the demolition, excavation for or the construction or placement of any
building, including signs, accessory buildings or fences, or to commence the
moving or exterior alteration of any buildings, including accessory buildings,
until the Planning Commission or its authorized agent or inspector has issued a
permit for such work.
   (B)   Exceptions. No building permits or certificate of occupancy shall be
required in the following cases:
      (1)   Recurring maintenance work.
      (2)   Those structures and uses exempted by §
153.126(A) and (B).
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.027 BUILDING, DEMOLITION OR ZONING PERMIT ISSUANCE; FEE.
   (A)   Application. In applying to the Planning Commission and its authorized
agent or inspector for a building, an addition to an exiting structure, a
renovation or a zoning permit, the applicant shall submit a dimensioned sketch
or scale plan indicating lot dimensions, the shape, size, height, and location
of all buildings to be erected, altered, or moved, and of any building already
on the lot or parcel. It shall be stated as to the existing and intended use of
all such buildings and supply such other information as may be required by the
Commission and its authorized agent or inspector for determining whether the
provisions of the chapter are being observed and upheld. The County Health
Officer’s certificate approving proposed water and sewerage facilities must
accompany applications pursuant to §
153.157.
   (B)   Issuance. If the proposed excavation or construction as set forth in
the application are in conformity with the provisions of this chapter and other
ordinances of the city then in force, the authorized agent or inspector shall
issue a permit for such excavation. If a building permit is refused, the
authorized agent or inspector shall state such refusal in writing, with the
cause, and shall immediately thereupon mail notice of such refusal to the
applicant at the address indicated on the application. The authorized agent or
inspector shall grant or deny the permit within fourteen (14) calendar days
from the date the application is submitted.
   (C)   Validity. The issuance of a permit shall, in no case, be construed as
waiving any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   Duration. A building permit shall become void six (6) months from the
date of issuance unless substantial progress has been exercised by that date on
the project described therein.
   (E)   Fee required. Application for a building permit shall be accompanied
by the fee required in § 153.427. The fee shall be paid into the General Fund
of the city to be used to help defray the costs of inspections and processing
of applications. The fee schedule is in §§ 153.425 et seq.
   (F)   Permanent file. The Planning Commission and its authorized agent or
inspector shall keep a permanent file of all applications with accompanying
plans and all permits issued.
   (G)   Orderly Compliance. Any applicant approved for a building permit shall
not cause debris or rubbish to accumulate on surrounding properties, roadways
or rights-of-way in the use of the permit. Violation of such can result in the
revocation of the building permit.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2023-16, passed 7-3-2023)
§ 153.028 COMPLIANCE.
   Nothing in this section or other sections of this chapter shall be construed
to exempt any applicant for a permit from compliance with all local, state and
federal codes, statutes and regulations.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.029 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   Issuance. No person shall use or permit the use of any structure or
premises or part thereof, hereafter created, erected, changed, converted,
enlarged, or moved, wholly or partly until a certificate of occupancy has been
issued by the Planning Commission's authorized agent or inspector. Such
certificate shall show that the structure or use, or both, or the premises, or
the affected part thereof, are in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter. Certificates shall be withheld unless all requirements of this chapter
have been met.
   (B)   No Occupancy Permit. No person shall allow occupancy of any building
until the Planning Commission has been notified by the appropriate agencies
that the private details of water, electricity, and where applicable, sanitary
sewer and natural gas are completed in such a fashion that such private
utilities are available for use on the property in question.
   (C)   Existing Uses or Structures. Upon request from the owner or tenant,
and upon inspection, the Planning Commission or its authorized agent or
inspector shall issue a certificate of occupancy for any building, premises or
use that is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter or, that a legal
nonconformity exists as specified in the certificate.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.030 AUTHORIZED USE
   Building permits, zoning permits or certificates of occupancy issued on the
basis of plans and applications approved by the Planning Commission, its
authorized agent or inspector authorize only that use, arrangement or
construction. Any use, arrangement or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.031 COMPLAINTS
   Any person may file a written complaint alleging violation of the provisions
of this chapter. The complaint shall state fully the cause and base thereof and
shall be filed with the Planning Commission, its authorized agent or inspector.
The Planning Commission shall properly record the complaint and investigate and
take action thereon as provided by this chapter to site the violator into
District Court if an uncorrected violation is determined to exist.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
Cross reference:
   Violations, remedies, see §
153.033
§ 153.032 JURISDICTION
   Concerning the administration of this Zoning code shall be as follows:
   (A)   The Administrative Officer has initial authority for the literal
enforcement of this zoning code. He/she has no discretionary authority to allow
any departure from the literal conformance with this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment has authority to hear appeals from
decisions by the Administrative Officer and to make literal interpretations of
the pertinent provisions to correct any possible misinterpretation by the
Administrative Officer. The Board also has the authority to make only those
departures from a literal conformance which is specifically delegated to it.
   (C)   The Circuit Court has jurisdiction to determine all questions and
issues properly brought before it on appeal from the decisions of the Board of
Zoning Adjustment or the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.033 VIOLATIONS; REMEDIES
   In case any building or structure is, or is proposed to be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building,
structure or land is, or is proposed to be used in violation of this chapter,
the Administrative Officer, or any other appropriate party who would be damaged
by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute an injunction,
mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent the work or
occupancy of such building, structure or land, in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 153.050 MEMBERS; TERM; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission (hereinafter referred to as "Commission") as
constituted at the time of this chapter shall continue in its authority.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be seven (7) members approved by the City Council
and appointed by the Mayor for four-year terms.
      (2)   Terms shall be staggered so that the terms of no more than two (2)
members expire in a year.
   (C)   (1)   Vacancies on the Planning Commission shall be filled within
sixty (60) days.
      (2)   If the vacancy is not filled within that time, the Commission shall
fill the vacancy according to its bylaws.
   (D)   Planning Commission members must meet a minimum of one (1) of the
following:
      (1)   Reside within the corporate limits of the city;
      (2)   Own and/or operate a business for profit within the corporate
limits of the city and reside within the county;
      (3)   Own real estate within the corporate limits of the city and reside
within the county.
   (E)   At least two-thirds () of the members of the Planning Commission shall
reside within the corporate limits of the city.
   (F)   Officers of the Planning Commission shall consist of a chairman, vice-
chairman and secretary-treasurer, only one (1) of whom can reside outside of
the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2023-03, passed 2-20-23) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.051 APPOINTMENTS
   The Commission shall appoint or hire persons in order to fulfill its
required duties under its bylaws, this chapter, and Kentucky Revised Statutes
Chapter 100.
§ 153.052 MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall conduct regular meetings in accordance with the rules
and regulations of it bylaws.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.053 POWERS; DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have all the powers as allowed under the Kentucky
Revised Statutes and the United States and Kentucky Constitutions, which
include, but are not limited to:
   (A)   The right to employ or contract with planners or other staff persons
as it deems necessary to accomplish its assigned duties;
   (B)   To receive, hold and spend funds which it may legally receive from any
and every source in and out of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   (C)   To prepare a comprehensive plan which shall serve as a guide for
public and private actions in decisions to assure the development of public and
private property in the most appropriate relationships;
   (D)   To prepare the text and map of all zoning code which shall divide the
portions of the city into zones on an interim or permanent basis to promote
public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the county, to facilitate
orderly and harmonious development in the visual or historic character of the
unit, to regulate the density of population and intensity of land use in order
to provide for adequate light and air;
   (E)   To adopt and administer regulations for the subdivision of land within
its boundaries;
   (F)   To prepare and adopt official zoning maps; and
   (G)   To review all proposals for amendments to the zoning code.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.054 COMPENSATION.
   Each member of the Planning Commission shall be compensated at the rate of
three hundred dollars ($300.00) per month, commencing July 1, 2024, and the
Chairman shall receive the total compensation of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
per month commencing on July 1, 2024.
(Ord. 97-12, passed 8-18-97; Am. Ord. 97-20, passed 12-15-97; Am. Ord. 99-10,
passed 9-20-99; Am. Ord. 2024-20, passed 6-3-24)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS
§ 153.075 ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS; TERM; VACANCIES.
   (A)   A Board of Adjustments is hereby established in accordance with
Kentucky Revised Statutes, Chapter 100.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be five (5) citizen members approved by the City
Council and appointed by the Mayor for four (4) year terms ending on the first
month of the designated year.
      (2)   The terms shall be staggered so that the terms of no more than two
(2) members expire in any year.
   (C)   (1)   Vacancies on the Board shall be filled within sixty (60) days.
      (2)   If the vacancy is not filled at that time, the Commission shall
fill the vacancy.
      (3)   When a vacancy occurs other than through expiration of the term of
office, it shall be filled for the remainder of that term.
   (D)   Board of Adjustments members must meet a minimum of one (1) of the
following:
      (1)   Reside within the corporate limits of the city;
      (2)   Own and/or operate a business for profit within the corporate
limits of the city and reside within the county;
      (3)   Own real estate within the corporate limits of the city and reside
within the county.
   (E)   At least two-thirds () of the members of the Board of Adjustments
shall reside within the corporate limits of the city.
   (F)   Officers of the Board of Adjustments shall consist of a chairman,
vice-chairman and secretary-treasurer, only one (1) of whom can reside outside
of the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2023-04, passed 2-20-23)
§ 153.076 COMPENSATION
   (A)   Each member of the Board of Adjustments shall be compensated at the
rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) per month commencing on July 1, 2020.
   (B)   The Chairman of the Board of Adjustments shall be compensated at the
rate of one hundred ($100.00) per month commencing on July 1, 2020.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2020-08, passed 5-18-20)
§ 153.077 MEETINGS
   Meetings of the Board of Adjustments shall be held at the call of the Chair,
or any two (2) members of the Board, who shall give written notice seven (7)
days prior to the meeting, and at such other times as the Board may determine.
All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall adopt
bylaws and shall keep records of applications and action thereon, which shall
be a public record.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.078 QUORUM; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
   A simple majority of the total membership of the Board of Adjustments as
established by regulation or agreement shall constitute a quorum. Any member of
the Board of Adjustments who has any direct or indirect financial interest in
the outcome of any question before the body (to include actions deemed
beneficial to family members through first cousin) shall disclose the nature of
the interest and shall disqualify his or her self from voting on the question,
and shall leave the room for the duration of the discussion of the particular
matter.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.079 MINUTES
   The Board of Adjustments shall keep minutes and records of all proceedings,
including regulations, transactions, findings, and determinations, and the
number of votes for and against each question, and if any member is absent or
abstains from voting, indicating the fact, all of which shall, immediately
after adoption, be filed with the office of the Board. If the Board has no
office, such records shall be kept in custody of the City or County Clerk,
whichever the Board designates, and shall be available to the general public.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.080 POWERS; DUTIES
   The Board of Adjustments shall have the following powers as allowed under
the Kentucky Constitution and Chapter 100 of the Kentucky Revised Statutes,
including but not limited to:
   (A)   The right to employ or contract with planners or other persons as it
deems necessary to accomplish its assigned duties;
   (B)   To receive, hold and spend funds which it may legally receive from any
and every source in and out of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   (C)   To issue subpoenas, and to hear and decide applications for
conditional use permits, variances, and nonconforming uses;
   (D)   To review administrative action in enforcement of this chapter;
   (E)   To grant and revoke conditional use permits; and
   (F)   To grant dimensional variances on lots of record;
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.081 BYLAWS.
   The Board shall adopt by-laws for its own government.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.082 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW
   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged by the applicants that there is error in any order, requirement,
permit, decision, determination, or refusal made by the administrative officer
or other administrative official in the carrying out or enforcement of any of
the provisions of this regulation and/or for interpretation of the Zoning Map.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.083 CONDITIONAL USES
   (A)   Power to Issue Conditional Use Permits. The Board of Adjustment shall
have the power to hear and decide applications for conditional use permits to
allow the proper integration into the community for uses which are specifically
named in the zoning code. Conditional uses may be suitable only in specific
locations in the zone only if certain conditions are met:
      (1)   Procedure. In applying for a conditional use permit, the applicant
shall submit a plan to the Board of Adjustment or its representative as set
forth in §
153.027.
      (2)   Notice. Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of a conditional use
permit request, the Board of Adjustment shall hold a public hearing in
accordance with the provisions of Kentucky Revised Statutes, Chapter 424. When
a conditional use is proposed, an appropriate sign stating the proposed
conditional use, the property involved, and the time, date and location of the
public hearing shall be posted on the property ten (10) days prior to the
public hearing. The Secretary or Vice Chair of the Board of Adjustment shall
post the sign.
      (3)   Action. The Board may approve, modify, or deny any application for
a conditional use permit. If it approves such permit, it may attach necessary
conditions such as time limitations, requirements that one or more things be
done before the request can be initiated, or conditions of a continuing nature.
Any such conditions shall be recorded in the Board's minutes and on the
conditional use permit, along with a reference to the specific section of the
zoning code listing the conditional use under consideration.
      (4)   Filing. All conditional use permits approved by the Board of Zoning
Adjustment shall be recorded at the expense of the applicant in the office of
the County Court Clerk.
   (B)   Revocation of Conditional Use Permit. The Board of Adjustment may
revoke a conditional use permit if the landowner does not comply with the
conditions therein. Furthermore, the board shall have the power to compel the
offending structures or uses removed at the cost of the violator and may have
judgment in personam for such cost.
   (C)   Procedure
      (1)   Annual Review. The Administrative Officer shall review all
conditional use permits, except those for which all conditions have been
satisfied, at least once annually, to determine if the conditions in the permit
are being met.
      (2)   The Administrative Officer shall review any conditional use permit,
except those for which all conditions have been satisfied, on the request of
the Board of Adjustments to determine if the land violates any laws or
regulations.
   (D)   Power to Inspect. The Administrative Officer shall have the power to
inspect the land or structure where the conditional use is located in order to
ascertain that the landowner is complying with all the conditions which are
listed on the conditional use permit, or to ascertain if the land is being used
for illegal purposes.
   (E)   Report of Violation. If the landowner is not complying with all of the
conditions listed on the conditional use permit, the Administrative Officer
shall report the fact in writing to the Chairman of the Board of Adjustment.
The report shall state specifically the manner in which the landowner is not
complying with the conditions on the conditional use permit, and a copy of the
report shall be furnished to the landowner at the same time that it is
furnished to the Chairman of the Board of Adjustment.
   (F)   Public Hearing. The Board shall hold a hearing on the report within
thirty (30) days, and a notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be
furnished to the landowner at least one week prior to the hearing.
   (G)   Action of Board of Adjustment. If the Board of Adjustment finds that
the facts alleged in the report of the Administrative Officer are true and that
the landowner has taken no steps to comply with them between the date of the
report and the date of the hearing, the Board of Adjustment may authorize the
Administrative Officer to revoke the conditional use permit and take the
necessary legal action to cause the termination of the activity on the land
which the conditional use permit authorizes.
   (H)   Time Limit. In any case where a conditional use permit has not been
exercised within one (1) year from its date of issuance, such conditional use
shall not revert to its original designation unless there is a public hearing.
Once there is a public hearing, the conditional use permit shall revert to its
original use unless the Board of Adjustment issues a new conditional use
permit. ("Exercised" as set out in this section shall mean that binding
contracts for the construction of the main building or other improvements have
been let, or in the absence of contracts, that the main building or other
improvement is under construction to a substantial degree, or that prerequisite
conditions involving substantial investment is under contract, in development,
or completed. When construction is not a part of the use, exercised shall mean
that the use is in operation in compliance with the conditions as designated in
the permit.)
   (I)   Conditional Use as a Permitted Use. Once the Board of Adjustments has
completed a conditional use permit and all the conditions required are of such
a type that they can be completely and permanently satisfied, the
administrative official, upon request of the applicant, may, if the facts
warrant, make a determination that the conditions have been satisfied, and
enter the facts which indicate that the conditions have been satisfied and
enter the conclusion in the margin of the copy of the conditional use permit
which is on file with the County Clerk, as required in Kentucky Revised
Statutes, Chapter 100.344. Thereafter, said use, if it continues to meet the
other requirements of the regulation, will be treated as a permitted use.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.084 VARIANCES
   The Board of Adjustments may grant dimensional variances in accordance with
the following requirements:
   (A)   Conditions which warrant a variance. The Board shall have the power to
hear and decide applications for dimensional variance on a lot of record. A
variance can be granted where, because of unusual shape, smallness of size or
other extraordinary physical conditions, the property owner is deprived of a
reasonable capacity to use the land in a manner equivalent to the use permitted
other landowners in the same zone. The conditions which warrant a variance must
have existed at the time this regulation was adopted.
   (B)   Variances which are Prohibited. The Board of Adjustment shall not
possess the power to grant a variance to permit a use or alteration or
extension of any land, building, or structure which is not permitted in the
zoning district in question; to alter density requirements in the zone in
question; or to permit a use not authorized by this chapter.
   (C)   Granting a Variance. Before any variance is granted, the Board must
find that the granting of the variance will not adversely affect the public
health, safety or welfare, will not alter the essential character of the
general vicinity, will not cause a hazard or a nuisance to the public, and will
not allow an unreasonable circumvention of the requirements of the zoning code.
In making these findings, the Board shall consider whether:
      (1)   The specific conditions in detail which are unique to the
applicant's land (such special circumstances do not generally apply to land in
the general vicinity) and do not exist on other land in the same zone; and
      (2)   The strict application of the provisions of the regulations would
deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of the land in the manner
equivalent to the use permitted other landowners in the same zone, or would
create an unnecessary hardship on the applicant; and
      (3)   That the unique conditions and circumstances are not the result of
actions of the applicant taken subsequent to the adoption of the zoning code;
and
      (4)   Reasons that the variances will preserve, not harm, the public
safety and welfare, and will not alter the essential character of the
neighborhood.
   (D)   Findings of Fact Required. Findings of fact relative to the above
statements shall be recorded along with any imposed conditions or restrictions
in its minutes and records and issued in written form to the applicant to
constitute proof of the dimensional variance.
   (E)   Conditions May be Imposed. In granting a variance, the Board may
attach thereto such conditions regarding the location, character, and other
features of the proposed building, structure, or use as it may deem advisable
in the furtherance of the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.085 APPEALS
   (A)   Who May Appeal. Any appeal to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by
any person, firm, or corporation aggrieved, or by any governmental officer,
department, board or bureau affected by any decision of the Administrative
Officer based in whole or in part upon the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Time Limitation. Such an appeal shall be made by filing with the Board
of Adjustment, a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The notice
of appeal shall be filed within thirty (30) days from the date upon which the
notice of refusal of zoning permit or certificate of compliance is mailed by
the Administrative Officer and failure to file notice of appeal within thirty
(30) days shall constitute a waiver of the right to appeal.
   (C)   Establishing Meeting Date. The Board of Adjustment shall set a date
not more than thirty (30) days after receiving the above records for hearing of
the appeal.
   (D)   Notice.
      (1)   Public notice shall be given in accordance with Kentucky Revised
Statutes Chapter 424 and all interested parties shall be notified of the
pending hearing. The appellant will be given notice at least one week prior to
the hearing.
      (2)   An appropriate sign will be posted on the property for which the
variance is requested at least ten (10) days before the public hearing. The
sign will describe the variance requested and the meeting date, time and place.
The Secretary of the Board of Adjustment or a person appointed by the Board,
shall post the sign.
   (E)   Evidence of Hardship. The applicant must present evidence that the
property will not yield a reasonable return if used in compliance with the
Regulation; that the conditions causing the hardship are unique and not shared
by neighboring property in the same zone; that the granting of the appeal will
not conflict with the zoning code. The Board shall use this evidence, and any
other evidence presented in accordance with Kentucky Revised Statutes, Chapter
100, in granting a variance in accordance with §
153.084(C).
   (F)   Notice of Decision. The Board of Adjustment shall decide the appeal
within sixty (60) days and give written notice to the Administrative Officer
and appellant of its decision.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.086 APPLICATION OF VARIANCE
   A dimensional variance applies to the property for which it is granted and
may be transferred with the land. It may not be transferred to another site.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
ZONING DISTRICTS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.100 ZONING DISTRICT MAP
   The city is hereby divided into zones and districts as provided herein and
as shown on the zoning map dated July 19, 1999, which together with all
explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this chapter. The Zoning District Map is composed of one (1) or two (2)
map sheets, each of which represents a different geographic area and/or subject
matter of the city. Each map shall be identified as part of the Zoning District
Map, and shall be kept on file in Leitchfield City Hall, and shall be known
herein as the "Leitchfield Zoning District Map."
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.101 INTERPRETATION OF ZONE; DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
   (A)   Where a uncertainty exists as to the exact boundaries of zones and
districts as shown on the zoning district map, the following rules shall be
used by the zoning administrator to interpret the exact location of the zoning
district boundaries shown:
   (B)   Where a zoning district boundary approximately follows a street, alley
or railroad, the center line of the street or railroad right-of-way is the
boundary of the district.
   (C)   Where a zoning district boundary approximately follows a property line
or a series of property lines, such line or lines is the boundary of the
district.
   (D)   Where a zoning district boundary approximately follows a stream or
shore line of a body of water, that stream or shore line at pool, as defined on
the date this chapter is enacted, is the boundary of the district.
   (E)   Where a zoning district boundary does not clearly follow any of the
features mentioned above, its exact location on the ground shall be determined
by measurement according to the zoning district map scale. In any case, where
the exact location of a boundary is not clear, the Board of Adjustment shall
use these rules to determine the exact location upon application by the
Planning Commission or Administrator for an original interpretation.
   (F)   Where a designated "zone" is a line along a roadway, street or
railroad, the center line of the roadway, street or railroad shall also be the
center line of the zone.
   (G)   When a zone or district boundary line divides a lot which was in
single ownership at the time and passage of this chapter, the zoning
administrator may permit, the extension of the zoning district for either
portion of the lot not to exceed 50 feet beyond the zone or district line into
the remaining portion of the lot.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.102 APPLICATION OF ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
   (A)   The regulations set by this chapter within each zone shall be minimum
or maximum limitations as appropriate to the case and shall apply uniformly to
each class or kind of structure or land, except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   No building, structure or land shall hereinafter be used or occupied,
and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereinafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the zone and district in which
it is located unless otherwise specifically permitted in this chapter.
   (C)   No building or other structure shall hereinafter be erected or
altered:
      (1)   To exceed the height, bulls or floor area ratio;
      (2)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      (3)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area;
      (4)   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards or
other open spaces; or
      (5)   To have less perimeter and interior lot landscaping for vehicular
use area and non-compatible land uses than herein required, or in any other
manner contrary to the provisions of this zoning code.
   (D)   No part of a yard, open space, off-street parking, loading space or
other special use area required about or in connection with any building or
land for the purpose of complying with this chapter shall be included as a part
of a yard, open space, off-street parking, loading space or other special use
area similarly required for any other building or land unless otherwise
specifically permitted by this chapter.
   (E)   No yard or lot existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter
shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the adoption of this zoning code shall meet
at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
   (F)   Except as hereinafter prohibited, there shall be no more than one (1)
principal structure and its accessory structures on any lot or parcel of land
unless a development plan is approved by the Planning Commission.
   (G)   Only those uses specifically named as principal, accessory or
conditional use or substantially similar to principal, accessory or conditional
uses are permitted in each zone or district and all uses not specifically
permitted or substantially similar to permitted uses are prohibited. Prohibited
uses shall include but not be limited to those specifically named as
prohibited.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.103 CONVERSION OF DWELLING STRUCTURES
   The conversion of any structure or structures either residential or non-
residential so as to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units or
families, or another permitted use, shall be permitted only within the zone of
which a new building for similar occupancy would be permitted under this
chapter. The resulting occupancy shall comply with all requirements governing
new construction in such zone including, but not limited to, floor area,
dimension or yards, open space and off-street parking. The aforesaid shall not
apply if the conversion involves no exterior structural changes to a principal
building but shall apply if any accessory building is converted to a principal
building.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.104 USE EXEMPTIONS
   (A)   Agricultural Land Use Exemptions. Notwithstanding any other provisions
of this chapter, land which is used solely for agricultural use as defined
herein shall be regulated in conformance with Kentucky Revised Statutes,
Chapter 100.
   (B)   Governmental Use Exemptions. Notwithstanding any other requirements of
Kentucky Revised Statutes, Chapter 100, the Commonwealth of Kentucky and its
political subdivisions shall be exempt from complying with any and all
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
Zoning Districts; Established
§ 153.125 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS
   These regulations establish the following zoning districts within the city
as a means to implement the stated purpose of this chapter:
A   Agricultural
RR   Rural Residential Single Family
R 1   Single Family low density
R-2   Single Family medium density
R-3   Single Family Manufactured
R-4   Two-Fami1y
R-5   Multi Family
R-6   Manufactured Home Parks
B-1   Neighborhood Business
B-2   Central Business District
C-1   Highway Commercial
I-1   Light Industrial
I-2   Heavy Industrial
P-1   Public/Institutional
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.126 A - Agricultural
   This district is derived of certain large open areas used for agricultural
purposes. The regulations of this district are designed to retain the open
character and certain other compatible uses.
   (A)   Permitted Primary Uses
      (1)   Growing and harvesting of field, tree, or bush crops including
flowers; and/or the keeping of poultry, bird and egg farms; and/or the
commercial breeding, raising, training, and grazing of horses, cattle, sheep,
goats, ostriches and other livestock provided that the site contains not less
than five (5) contiguous acres.
      (2)   Single Family detached site constructed dwellings & modular homes.
      (3)   Corrals, stables, pens, barns, and similar structures for keeping
of livestock.
      (4)   Plant nurseries and greenhouses for the propagation, cultivation
and distribution of plants produced on and off the premises.
      (5)   Schools for academic instruction and associated facilities.
      (6)   Churches, nursery schools and childcare centers for four (4)
children or less.
      (7)   Government operated parks and playgrounds.
   (B)   Permitted Accessory Uses
      (1)   Private garages, private storage sheds and private parking areas.
      (2)   Private swimming pools and tennis courts.
      (3)   Private noncommercial parks and open space.
      (4)   Living quarters with cooking facilities and not rented for guests
and employees of the premises.
      (5)   Keeping of not more than two (2) roomers or boarders without
kitchen facilities.
      (6)   Barns and related farm structures.
      (7)   Home Occupations.
   (C)   Permitted Conditional Uses. The following uses are permitted only with
Board of Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of
these regulations.
      (1)   Childcare centers for five (5) and not more than twelve (12)
children when accessory to and located in the same structure with a single-
family residential use. A fence and screened play area shall be provided which
shall contain not less than twenty-five (25) square feet per child and shall be
located to the rear of and directly adjacent to the principal structure or use.
      (2)   Temporary real estate sales office for the sale of lots located
only within the subdivision section in which lots are located, to be removed at
the end of one (1) year or when all the lots are sold, whichever comes first.
      (3)   Cemeteries.
      (4)   Outdoor commercial recreation facilities such as golf courses,
zoological gardens, sportsman farms, riding stables, fishing lakes, swimming
pools, tennis courts and campgrounds.
      (5)   Riding and boarding stables.
      (6)   Animal hospitals, clinics, and boarding kennels.
      (7)   Sales stands for the sale of farm or ranch products.
      (8)   Short-term rentals.
   (D)   A - yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is 217,800 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width is 250 feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback is 50 feet.
      (4)   Rear yard setback is 50 feet.
      (5)   Side yard setback is 35 feet on both sides of each lot.
   (E)   A - maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 35 percent (35%).
      (2)   Building height is two stories or 34 feet.
   (F)   Private sewage systems. Where private sewage systems or on-site septic
treatment facilities are used, if the minimum lot area required by the health
department is greater than the minimum listed within the chapter, then the
health department required lot size shall be the required size.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2021-20, passed 12-20-21)
§ 153.127 RR - RURAL RESIDENTIAL SINGLE FAMILY
   This district is composed of rural/low density single-family detached site
constructed homes in certain areas of the city, as well as certain open areas
where similar residential development is appropriate. The regulations for this
district are designed to stabilize and protect the essential characteristics
desired in the district, to promote and encourage a suitable environment for
family life, and to promote orderly planning and development of land uses by
limiting activities other than residential in nature from this district. Public
and private parks and schools are permitted within the district provided that
they serve the residents of the district. More than one (1) permitted principal
structure per lot or parcel of land shall not be permitted.
   (A)   Permitted Primary Uses
      (1)   Single Family detached site constructed dwellings, modular homes
and manufactured housing that meets modular home standards as defined.
      (2)   Schools for academic instruction and associated facilities.
      (3)   Churches, nursery schools and childcare centers for four (4)
children or less.
      (4)   Government operated parks and playgrounds.
   (B)   Permitted Accessory Uses
      (1)   Private garages, private storage sheds and private parking areas.
      (2)   Private swimming pools and tennis courts.
      (3)   Agricultural uses.
      (4)   Private noncommercial parks and open space.
      (5)   Living quarters with cooking facilities and not rented for guests
and employees of the premises.
      (6)   Keeping of not more than two (2) roomers or boarders without
kitchen facilities.
      (7)   Home Occupations.
   (C)   Permitted Conditional Uses. The following uses are permitted only with
Board of Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of
these regulations.
      (1)   Kindergartens, nursery schools and childcare centers for five (5)
and not more than twelve (12) children when accessory to and located in the
same structure with a single-family residential use. A fence and screened play
area shall be provided which shall be located to the rear of and directly
adjacent to the principal structure or use.
      (2)   Temporary real estate sales office for the sale of lots located
only within the subdivision section in which lots are located, to be removed at
the end of one (1) year or when all the lots are sold, whichever comes first.
      (3)   Cemeteries.
      (4)   Outdoor commercial recreation facilities such as golf courses,
zoological gardens, sportsman farms, riding stables, fishing lakes, swimming
pools, ball fields, tennis courts and campgrounds.
      (5)   Short-term rentals.
   (D)   RR - yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is 87,120 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width is 200 feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback is 45 feet.
      (4)   Rear yard setback is 25 feet.
      (5)   Side yard setback is 25 feet on both sides of each lot.
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
   (E)   RR - maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 35 percent (35%).
      (2)   Building height is two stories or 34 feet.
   (F)   Private sewage systems. Where private sewage systems or on-site septic
treatment facilities are used, if the minimum lot area required by the health
department is greater than the minimum listed within the chapter, then the
health department required lot size shall be the required size.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2021-20, passed 12-20-21)
§ 153.128 R-1 Single Family Low Density
   This district is composed of low density single-family detached site
constructed homes in certain areas of the city, as well as certain open areas
where similar residential development is appropriate. The regulations for this
district are designed to stabilize and protect the essential characteristics
desired in the district, to promote and encourage a suitable environment for
family life, and to promote orderly planning and development of land uses by
limiting activities other than residential in nature from this district. Public
and private parks and schools are permitted within the district provided that
they serve the residents of the district. More than one (1) permitted principal
structure per lot or parcel of land shall not be permitted.
   (A)   Permitted Primary Uses
      (1)   Single Family detached site constructed dwellings, modular homes
and manufactured housing that meets modular home standards as defined.
      (2)   Schools for academic instruction and associated facilities.
      (3)   Churches, nursery schools and childcare centers for four (4)
children or less.
      (4)   Government operated parks and playgrounds.
   (B)   Permitted Accessory Uses
      (1)   Private garages, private storage sheds and private parking areas.
      (2)   Private swimming pools and tennis courts.
      (3)   Agricultural uses.
      (4)   Private noncommercial parks and open space.
      (5)   Living quarters with cooking facilities and not rented for guests
and employees of the premises.
      (6)   Keeping of not more than two (2) roomers or boarders without
kitchen facilities.
      (7)   Home Occupations.
   (C)   Permitted Conditional Uses. The following uses are permitted only with
Board of Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of
these regulations.
      (1)   Kindergartens, nursery schools, and childcare centers for five (5)
and not more than twelve (12) children when accessory to and located in the
same structure with a single-family residential use. A fence and screened play
area shall be provided which shall contain not less than twenty-five (25)
square feet per child and shall be located to the rear of and directly adjacent
to the principal structure or use.
      (2)   Temporary real estate sales office for the sale of lots located
only within the subdivision section in which lots are located, to be removed at
the end of one (1) year or when all the lots are sold, whichever comes first.
      (3)   Cemeteries.
      (4)   Outdoor commercial recreation facilities such as golf courses,
zoological gardens, sportsman farms, riding stables, fishing lakes, swimming
pools, ball fields, tennis courts and campgrounds.
      (5)   Short-term rentals.
   (D)   R-1 Yard Area Minimum Requirements:
      (1)   Lot area is 14,725 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width is 95 feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback is 25 feet.
      (4)   Rear yard setback is 25 feet. .
      (5)   Side yard setback is 15 feet on both sides of each lot.
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
   (E)   R-1 - Maximum Requirements:
      (1)   Lot coverage is 35 percent (35%).
      (2)   Building height is two stories or 34 feet.
   (F)   Private sewage systems - Where private sewage systems or on-site
septic treatment facilities are used, if the minimum lot area required by the
health department is greater than the minimum listed within the chapter, then
the health department required lot size shall be the required size.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2021-20, passed 12-20-21)
§ 153.129 R-2 SINGLE FAMILY MEDIUM DENSITY
   This district is composed of medium density single-family detached site
constructed homes in certain areas of the city, as well as certain open areas
where similar residential development is appropriate. The regulations for this
district are designed to stabilize and protect the essential characteristics
desired in the district, to promote and encourage a suitable environment for
family life, and to promote orderly planning and development of land uses by
limiting activities other than residential in nature from this district. Public
and private parks and schools are permitted within the district provided that
they serve the residents of the district. More than one (1) permitted principal
structure per lot or parcel of land shall not be permitted.
   (A)   Permitted Primary Uses
      (1)   Single Family detached site constructed dwellings, modular homes
and manufactured housing that meets modular home standards as defined.
      (2)   Schools for academic instruction and associated facilities.
      (3)   Churches, nursery schools and childcare centers for four (4)
children or less.
      (4)   Government operated parks and playgrounds.
   (B)   Permitted Accessory Uses
      (1)   Private garages, private storage sheds and private parking areas.
      (2)   Private swimming pools and tennis courts.
      (3)   Agricultural uses.
      (4)   Private noncommercial parks and open space.
      (5)   Living quarters with cooking facilities and not rented for guests
and employees of the premises.
      (6)   Keeping of not more than two (2) roomers or boarders without
kitchen facilities.
      (7)   Home Occupations.
   (C)   Permitted Conditional Uses. The following uses are permitted only with
Board of Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of
these regulations.
      (1)   Kindergartens, nursery schools, and childcare centers for five (5)
and not more than twelve (12) children when accessory to and located in the
same structure with a single-family residential use. A fence and screened play
area shall be provided which shall contain not less than twenty-five (25)
square feet per child and shall be located to the rear of and directly adjacent
to the principal structure or use.
      (2)   Temporary real estate sales office for the sale of lots located
only within the subdivision section in which lots are located, to be removed at
the end of one (1) year or when all the lots are sold, whichever comes first.
      (3)   Cemeteries.
      (4)   Outdoor commercial recreation facilities such as golf courses,
zoological gardens, sportsman farms, riding stables, fishing lakes, swimming
pools, ball fields, tennis courts and campgrounds.
      (5)   Short-term rentals.
   (D)   R-2 yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is eight thousand, three hundred and fifty (8,350) square
feet.
      (2)   Lot width is seventy-five (75) feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback is twenty (20) feet.
      (4)   Rear yard setback is twenty-five (25) feet. Auxiliary structures
ten (10) feet rear yard setback.
      (5)   Side yard setback is ten (10) feet on both sides of each lot.
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
   (E)   R-2 - maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 35 percent (35%).
      (2)   Building height is two (2) stories or thirty-four (34) feet.
   (F)   Private sewage systems. Where private sewage systems or on-site septic
treatment facilities are used, if the minimum lot area required by the health
department is greater than the minimum listed within the chapter, then the
health department required lot size shall be the required size.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2003-3, passed 4-7-03; Am. Ord. 2021-20,
passed 12-20-21)
§ 153.130 R-3 SINGLE FAMILY MANUFACTURED
   This district is composed of medium density single-family detached site
constructed homes and manufactured homes in certain areas of the city, as well
as certain open areas where similar residential development is appropriate. The
regulations for this district are designed to stabilize and protect the
essential characteristics desired in the district, to promote and encourage a
suitable environment for family life, and to promote orderly planning and
development of land uses by limiting activities other than residential in
nature from this district. Public and private parks and schools are permitted
within the district provided that they serve the residents of the district.
More than one (1) permitted principal structure per lot or parcel of land shall
not be permitted.
   (A)   Permitted Primary Uses:
      (1)   Single Family detached site constructed dwellings & modular homes.
      (2)   Single Family Manufactured Homes or dwellings.
      (3)   Schools for academic instruction and associated facilities.
      (4)   Churches, nursery schools and childcare centers for four (4)
children or less.
      (5)   Government operated parks and playgrounds.
   (B)   Permitted Accessory Uses:
      (1)   Private garages, private storage sheds and private parking areas.
      (2)   Private swimming pools and tennis courts.
      (3)   Agricultural uses.
      (4)   Private noncommercial parks and open space.
      (5)   Living quarters with cooking facilities and not rented for guests
and employees of the premises.
      (6)   Keeping of not more than two (2) roomers or boarders without
kitchen facilities.
      (7)   Home Occupations.
   (C)   Permitted Conditional Uses. The following uses are permitted only with
Board of Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of
these regulations.
      (1)   Kindergartens, nursery schools, and childcare centers for five (5)
and not more than twelve (12) children when accessory to and located in the
same structure with a single-family residential use. A fence and screened play
area shall be provided which shall contain not less than twenty-five (25)
square feet per child and shall be located to the rear of and directly adjacent
to the principal structure or use.
      (2)   Temporary real estate sales office for the sale of lots located
only within the subdivision section in which lots are located, to be removed at
the end of one (1) year or when all the lots are sold, whichever comes first.
      (3)   Cemeteries.
      (4)   Outdoor commercial recreation facilities such as golf courses,
zoological gardens, sportsman farms, riding stables, fishing lakes, swimming
pools, ball fields, tennis courts and campgrounds.
      (5)   Short-term rentals.
   (D)   R-3 yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
      (2)   Lot width is one hundred (100) feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback is twenty (20) feet.
      (4)   Rear yard setback is twenty-five (25) feet.
      (5)   Side yard setback is ten (10) feet on both sides of each lot.
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two (2) streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
   (E)   R-3 maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 35 percent (35%).
      (2)   Building height is two (2) stories or thirty-four (34) feet.
   (F)   Private sewage systems.  Where private sewage systems or on-site
septic treatment facilities are used, if the minimum lot area required by the
health department is greater than the minimum listed within the chapter, then
the health department required lot size shall be the required size.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2021-20, passed 12-20-21)
§ 153.131 R-4 TWO-FAMILY
   This district is composed of higher density single family and two-family
duplex site constructed dwelling units in certain areas of the city, as well as
certain open areas where similar residential development is appropriate. The
regulations for this district are designed to stabilize and protect the
essential characteristics desired in the district, to promote and encourage a
suitable environment for family life, and to promote orderly planning and
development of land uses by limiting activities other than residential in
nature from this district. Public and private parks and schools are permitted
within the district provided that they serve the residents of the district.
   (A)   Permitted Primary Uses
      (1)   Two-family site constructed homes or dwellings.
      (2)   Schools for academic instruction and associated facilities.
      (3)   Churches, nursery schools and childcare centers for four (4)
children or less.
      (4)   Government operated parks and playgrounds.
   (B)   Permitted Accessory Uses
      (1)   Private garages, private storage sheds and private parking areas.
      (2)   Private swimming pools and tennis courts.
      (3)   Agricultural uses.
      (4)   Private noncommercial parks and open space.
      (5)   Living quarters with cooking facilities and not rented for guests
and employees of the premises.
      (6)   Keeping of not more than two (2) roomers or boarders without
kitchen facilities.
      (7)   Home Occupations.
   (C)   Permitted Conditional Uses. The following uses are permitted only with
Board of Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of
these regulations.
      (1)   Kindergarten, nursery schools and childcare centers for five (5)
and not more than twelve (12) children when accessory to and located in the
same structure with a single-family residential use. A fence and screened play
area shall be provided which shall contain not less than twenty-five (25)
square feet per child and shall be located to the rear of and directly adjacent
to the principal structure or use.
      (2)   Temporary real estate sales office for the sale of lots located
only within the subdivision section in which lots are located, to be removed at
the end of one (1) year or when all the lots are sold, whichever comes first.
      (3)   Cemeteries.
      (4)   Outdoor commercial recreation facilities such as golf courses,
zoological gardens, sportsman farms, riding stables, fishing lakes, swimming
pools, tennis courts and campgrounds.
      (5)   Short-term rentals.
   (D)   R-4 yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is eight thousand, three hundred and fifty (8,350) square
feet per single family dwelling; sixteen thousand (16,000) square feet for
duplexes.
      (2)   Lot width is eighty (80) feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback is twenty (20) feet.
      (4)   Rear yard setback is twenty-five (25) feet.
      (5)   Side yard setback is ten (10) feet on both sides of each lot.
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
   (E)   R-4 maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 35 percent (35%).
      (2)   Building height is two (2) stories or thirty-four (34) feet.
   (F)   Private sewage systems. Where private sewage systems or on-site septic
treatment facilities are used, if the minimum lot area required by the health
department is greater than the minimum listed within the chapter, then the
health department required lot size shall be the required size.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2021-20, passed 12-20-21)
§ 153.132 R-5 MULTI-FAMILY
   This district is composed of higher density multi-family site constructed
dwelling units in certain areas of the city, as well as certain open areas
where similar residential development is appropriate. The regulations for this
district are designed to stabilize and protect the essential characteristics
desired in the district, to promote and encourage a suitable environment for
family life, and to promote orderly planning and development of land uses by
limiting activities other than residential in nature from this district. Public
and private parks and schools are permitted within the district provided that
they serve the residents of the district.
   (A)   Permitted Primary Uses
      (1)   Multiple-family dwellings.
      (2)   Schools for academic instruction and associated facilities.
      (3)   Churches, nursery schools and childcare centers for four (4)
children or
      (4)   Government operated parks and playgrounds.
   (B)   Permitted Accessory Uses
      (1)   Private garages, private storage sheds and private parking areas.
      (2)   Private swimming pools and tennis courts.
      (3)   Agricultural uses.
      (4)   Private noncommercial parks and open space.
      (5)   Living quarters with cooking facilities and not rented for guests
and employees of the premises.
      (6)   Keeping of not more than two (2) roomers or boarders without
kitchen facilities.
      (7)   Home Occupations.
   (C)   Permitted Conditional Uses. The following uses are permitted only with
Board of Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of
these regulations.
      (1)   Kindergartens, nursery schools and childcare centers for five (5)
and not more than twelve (12) children when accessory to and located in the
same structure with a single-family residential use. A fence and screened play
area shall be provided which shall contain not less than twenty-five (25)
square feet per child and shall be located to the rear of and directly adjacent
to the principal structure or use.
      (2)   Temporary real estate sales office for the sale of lots located
only within the subdivision section in which lots are located, to be removed at
the end of one (1) year or when all the lots are sold, whichever comes first.
      (3)   Cemeteries.
      (4)   Outdoor commercial recreation facilities such as golf courses,
zoological gardens, sportsman farms, riding stables, fishing lakes, swimming
pools, tennis courts and campgrounds.
      (5)   Short-term rentals.
   (D)   R-5 yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is twelve thousand, five hundred (12,500) square feet with
three thousand, five hundred (3,500) square feet added for each additional
dwelling unit over two (2) units - (three (3) units require sixteen thousand
(16,000) square feet.)
      (2)   Lot width is one hundred (100) feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback is twenty (20) feet.
      (4)   Rear yard setback is twenty-five (25) feet.
      (5)   Side yard setback is ten (10) feet on both sides of each lot.
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
   (E)   R-5 maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 50 percent (50%).
      (2)   Building height is two (2) stories or thirty-four (34) feet.
   (F)   Private sewage systems. Where private sewage systems or on-site septic
treatment facilities are used, if the minimum lot area required by the health
department is greater than the minimum listed within the chapter, then the
health department required lot size shall be the required size.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2021-20, passed 12-20-21)
§ 153.133 R-6 SINGLE FAMILY MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
This district is composed of high density manufactured home parks in certain
areas of the city, as well as certain open areas where similar residential
development is appropriate. The regulations for this district are designed to
promote and encourage a suitable environment for affordable housing areas and
family life, and to promote orderly planning and development of land uses by
limiting activities other than residential in nature from this district.
   (A)   Permitted Primary Uses. Manufactured Home Parks that meet Kentucky
State Regulations regarding Mobile Home Parks and have a permit from the State
and County Health Department to operate as such.
   (B)   Permitted Accessory Uses
   (1)   Private garages, private storage sheds and private parking areas.
      (2)   Private swimming pools and tennis courts.
      (3)   Agricultural uses.
      (4)   Private noncommercial parks and open space.
      (5)   Keeping of not more than two (2) roomers or boarders without
kitchen facilities.
      (6)   Home Occupations
   (C)   Permitted Conditional Uses. The following uses are permitted only with
Board of Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of
these regulations.
      (1)   Temporary real estate sales office for the sale of lots located
only within the subdivision section in which lots are located, to be removed at
the end of one (1) year or when all the lots are sold, whichever comes first.
      (2)   Cemeteries.
      (3)   Short-term rentals.
   (D)   R-6 Yard Area Minimum Requirements:
      (1)   Required lot areas, setbacks as required by Kentucky Mobile Home
Park Regulations set forth in KRS 219.330 to 219.410 & 227.555 as amended; and
as set forth by the regulations enforced by the Secretary of the Cabinet for
Health Services.
      (2)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two (2) streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2021-20, passed 12-20-21)
§ 153.134 B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT
   The purpose of the Neighborhood Business District is to allow for the
continuance of and encourage the establishment of relatively small areas for
businesses that minimally impact surrounding residences, and which tend to meet
the daily needs of the residents in an immediate neighborhood or as
characterized by low volume daily customers. Such districts shall be
strategically located with access to a collector street. The primary intent of
this district is to insure compatibility with adjoining residential
neighborhoods, while satisfying some of their daily commercial and service
business needs.
   (A)   Permitted Primary Uses
      (1)   Beauty shops, barber shops.
      (2)   Gift shops and antique shops.
      (3)   Establishments for the retail sale of food products, such as
supermarkets, no greater than 3,000 square feet in building area, and provided
that no drive through facilities are provided.
      (4)   Schools for academic instruction and associated facilities.
      (5)   Community Centers.
      (6)   Nursing and rest homes.
      (7)   Restaurants, no greater than 3,000 square feet in building area and
no drive-in or drive-through service facilities are provided.
      (8)   Bed and breakfast establishments.
      (9)   Banks, credit agencies, security and commodity brokers and
exchanges, savings and loan companies, and holding and investment companies.
      (10)   Day care facilities.
      (11)   Professional offices.
      (12)   Personal services.
      (13)   Signs in accordance with §§
153.200 –
153.205.
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Parking areas.
      (2)   One (1) dwelling unit for owners, operators or employees of a
permitted use provided that such dwelling unit shall be a part of the building
and shall have a separate entrance.
   (C)   Permitted conditional uses. The following uses are permitted only with
Board of Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of
these regulations and the comprehensive plan: short-term rentals.
   (D)   B-1 Yard Area Minimum Requirements:
      (1)   Lot area is 7,500 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width is 80 feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback is 20 feet.
      (4)   Rear yard setback is 25 feet.
      (5)   Side yard setback is ten (10) feet on both sides of each lot.
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two (2) streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
   (E)   B-1 - maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 40 percent (40%).
      (2)   Building height is two (2) stories or thirty-four (34) feet.
   (F)   Private sewage systems. Where private sewage systems or on-site septic
treatment facilities are used, if the minimum lot area required by the health
department is greater than the minimum listed within the chapter, then the
health department required lot size shall be the required size.
(Ord, 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2018-05, passed 4-2-18; Am. Ord. 2021-20,
passed 12-20-21)
§ 153.135 B-2 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
   The purpose of the Central Business District is to protect and encourage
renewal while maintaining the existing character and overall appearance of the
core residential and business area of the community. A variety of business,
institutional, public, quasi-public, cultural, residential, and other related
uses are encouraged in an effort to provide the mix of activities necessary to
maintain the historical and cultural significance inherent in the area.
Compatibility with the existing structures and uses is the primary goal of the
district, while enhancing the overall appearance and function as an actively
used district.
   (A)   Permitted primary uses.
      (1)   Beauty shops, barber shops.
      (2)   Gift shops and antique shops.
      (3)   Establishments for the retail sale of food products, such as
supermarkets, no greater than 4,500 square feet in building area.
      (4)   Schools for academic instruction and associated facilities.
      (5)   Community centers.
      (6)   Nursing and rest homes.
      (7)   Banks, credit agencies, security and commodity brokers and
exchanges, savings and loan companies, and holding and investment companies;
provided, however, building is no greater than 3,000 square feet.
      (8)   Offices for business, professional, governmental, civic, social,
fraternal, political, religious and charitable organizations.
      (9)   Libraries, museums, art galleries, and reading rooms.
      (10)   Medical and dental offices, clinics and laboratories.
      (11)   Studios for working and teaching the fine arts.
      (12)   Churches, Sunday schools and Childcare centers.
      (13)   Computer and data processing centers.
      (14)   Ticket and travel agencies.
      (15)   Business colleges or technical schools.
      (16)   Restaurants with no drive-in or drive-through facilities are
provided.
      (17)   Bed and breakfast establishments.
      (18)   Indoor amusements such as billiard or poolhalls, skating rinks, or
bowling alleys.
      (19)   Indoor theaters.
      (20)   Establishments for the retail sale of merchandise.
      (21)   Signs in accordance with §§
153.200 –
153.205.
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Parking areas.
      (2)   One (1) dwelling unit for owners, operators or employees of a
permitted use provided that such dwelling unit shall be a part of the building
and shall have a separate entrance.
   (C)   Permitted conditional uses. The following uses are permitted only with
Board of Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of
these regulations and the comprehensive plan.
      (1)   Multiple-family dwellings.
      (2)   Mixed use developments that combine residential and permitted
primary commercial uses where the residential uses retain separate building
entrances.
      (3)   Short-term rentals.
   (D)   B-2 yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is seven thousand, five hundred (7,500) square feet.
      (2)   Lot width is eighty (80) feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback is zero (0) feet.
      (4)   Rear yard setback is ten (10) feet.
      (5)   Side yard setback is ten (10) feet on both sides of each lot.
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
   (E)   B-2 - maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 60 percent (60%).
      (2)   Building height not to exceed eighty-four (84) feet.
   (F)   Private sewage systems. Where private sewage systems or on-site septic
treatment facilities are used, if the minimum lot area required by the Health
Department is greater than the minimum listed within the chapter, then the
Health Department required lot size shall be the required size.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2003-3, passed 4-7-03; Am. Ord. 2021-20,
passed 12-20-21; Am. Ord. 2024-14, passed 4-15-24)
§ 153.136 C-1 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
   The purpose of the Highway Commercial District is to encourage the
establishment of areas for highway business uses only. This district is
specifically designed to service the motoring public. Highway Commercial
Districts are generally associated with areas along major highways.
   (A)   Permitted primary uses.
      (1)   The primary uses in the B-1 and B-2 Districts.
      (2)   Establishments and lot for the display, rental, sales, service and
repair of farm equipment, contractor equipment, automobiles, motorcycles,
trucks, boats, travel trailers, mobile homes or supplies for such items.
      (3)   Restaurants.
      (4)   Motels and hotels.
      (5)   Wholesale establishments.
      (6)   Garden centers.
      (7)   Kennel, animal hospitals or clinics, including offices of
veterinarians, provided that such structure or use not including accessory
parking area shall be at least 200 feet from any residential zoning district.
      (8)   Funeral homes.
      (9)   Hospitals.
      (10)   Automobile service stations.
      (11)   Car washes, provided surface water from such establishments shall
not drain onto adjacent property and that adequate on-site storage lanes and
parking facilities shall be provided so that no public way shall be used for
such purposes.
      (12)   Residential storage warehouses (Mini-warehouses).
      (13)   Signs in accordance with §§
153.200 –
153.205.
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Parking areas.
      (2)   One (1) dwelling unit for owners, operators or employees of a
permitted use provided that such dwelling unit shall be a part of the building
and shall have a separate entrance.
   (C)   Permitted conditional uses. The following uses are permitted only with
Board of Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of
these regulations and the comprehensive plan.
      (1)   Recycling Centers.
      (2)   Short-term rentals.
   (D)   C-1 yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is seven thousand, five hundred (7,500) square feet.
      (2)   Lot width is eighty (80) feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback is twenty (20) feet.
      (4)   Rear yard setback is twenty-five (25) feet.
      (5)   Side yard setback is ten (10) feet on both sides of each lot.
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
   (E)   C-1 - maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 60 percent (60%).
      (2)   Building height is not to exceed eighty-four (84) feet.
   (F)   Private sewage systems. Where private sewage systems or on-site septic
treatment facilities are used, if the minimum lot area required by the Health
Department is greater than the minimum listed within the chapter, then the
Health Department required lot size shall be the required size.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2021-20, passed 12-20-21; Am. Ord. 2024-
14, passed 4-15-24)
§ 153.137 I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL
   The purpose of this district is to encourage the development of
manufacturing and wholesale business establishments which are clean, relatively
quiet and free of hazardous or objectionable elements such as noise, odor,
dust, smoke, or glare; which operate primarily within enclosed structures and
generate little industrial traffic.
   (A)   Permitted Uses. Wholesale, storage, warehouse, animal hospital,
bakery, bottling works, building material yard, optical goods, printing,
publication or engraving, cabinet making, clothing manufacturers, dying and dry
cleaning, ice plants and laundry. These permitted uses to include
manufacturing, treatment, altering, finishing or assembling incidental thereto.
   (B)   Accessory Uses Permitted
      (1)   Signs identifying the industrial activity on the same premises in
accordance with §§
153.200 –
153.205.
      (2)   Garages and other buildings and uses accessory to the principal
use.
   (C)   Conditional Uses - Junk yards and other light industrial uses not
listed above which can be classified as light industry pursuant to §
153.008 shall be considered conditional uses and will require the approval of
the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
   (D)   I-1 yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is forty-three thousand, five hundred sixty (43,560)
square feet.
      (2)   Lot width is one hundred (100) feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback is fifty (50) feet.
      (4)   Rear yard setback is twenty-five (25) feet.
      (5)   Side yard setback is twenty-five (25) feet on both sides of each
lot.
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two (2) streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
   (E)   I-1 - maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 60 percent (60%).
      (2)   Building height not to exceed eighty-four (84) feet.
   (F)   Private sewage systems. Where private sewage systems or on-site septic
treatment facilities are used, if the minimum lot area required by the Health
Department is greater than the minimum listed within the chapter, then the
Health Department required lot size shall be the required size.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2024-14, passed 4-15-24)
§ 153.138 I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL
   The purpose of this district is to encourage the development of major
manufacturing, processing, warehousing, and major research and testing
operations. These activities require extensive community facilities and
reasonable access to arterial highways; they may have extensive open storage
and service areas, generate heavy traffic but shall be prohibited if they
create nuisances beyond federal and state guidelines.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Any use permitted in the light industrial district.
      (2)   Retail sale of any commodity manufactured, fabricated, or processed
on the premises or of any commodity designed especially for use in
agricultural, mining industry, business, transportation, or construction.
      (3)   The generation of electric power and/or gas distribution or the
manufacturing or processing of clay, tile, primary metals, wood, paper, glass,
plastic, rubber, and related products and services.
      (4)   All permitted uses must meet all state and federal regulatory
requirements.
   (B)   Accessory uses permitted.
      (1)   Signs identifying the industrial activity on the same premises in
accordance with §§
153.200 –
153.205.
      (2)   Garages and other buildings and uses accessory to the principal
use.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   All manufacturing and industrial processes not enumerated in
subsection (A) shall require a conditional use permit. Furthermore, such
conditional use must meet all state and federal regulatory requirements.
      (2)   The following uses are permitted only with Board of Adjustment
approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of these regulations.
         (a)   Sexually oriented businesses, provided there is an appropriate
buffer between adult entertainment businesses and adjoining land uses. There
must be a 500-foot buffer between an adult entertainment business and property
currently in residential use, another adult business, a church, school, day
care center, park or playground, civic facility, historic resource, or
cemetery. Limitations on business hours may be imposed. Any other restrictions
or conditions as deemed appropriate by the Board of Adjustment shall apply.
   (D)   I-2 yard area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is 87,120 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width is 150 feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback is 100 feet.
      (4)   Rear yard setback is 50 feet.
      (5)   Side yard setback is 50 feet on both sides of each lot.
   (E)   I-2 - maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 60 percent (60%).
      (2)   Building height not to exceed eighty-four (84) feet.
   (F)   Private sewage systems. Where private sewage systems or on-site septic
treatment facilities are used, if the minimum lot area required by the Health
Department is greater than the minimum listed within the chapter, then the
Health Department required lot size shall be the required size.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2006-7, passed 5-1-06; Am. Ord. 2024-14,
passed 4-15-24)
§ 153.139 P-1 PUBLIC AREA
   The purpose of this district is to provide areas for publicly owned offices,
facilities, and institutional uses.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Cemeteries,
      (2)   Airports and heliports,
      (3)   Churches and other places of worship,
      (4)   Public libraries,
      (5)   Shelters and non-commercial public recreational facilities,
      (6)   Hospitals,
      (7)   Philanthropic institutions and clubs,
      (8)   Schools and structures incidental thereto,
      (9)   Open uses of land for public recreation,
      (10)   Historical parks.
   (B)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted only with Board of
Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of these
regulations.
      (1)   Kindergartens, nursery schools, and childcare centers for four (4)
and not more than twelve (12) children when accessory to and located in the
same structure with a single-family residential use. A fence and screened play
area shall be provided which shall contain not less than twenty-five (25)
square feet per child and shall be located to the rear of and directly adjacent
to the principal structure or use.
      (2)   Temporary real estate sales office for the sale of lots located
only within the subdivision section in which lots are located, to be removed at
the end of one (1) year or when all the lots are sold, whichever comes first.
      (3)   Outdoor commercial recreation facilities such as golf courses,
zoological gardens, sportsman farms, riding stables, fishing lakes, swimming
pools, tennis courts, and campgrounds.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.140 R-2A SINGLE FAMILY HIGH DENSITY.
   This district is composed of high density single-family detached and
attached site constructed homes in certain areas of the city, as well as
certain open areas where similar residential development is appropriate. The
regulations for this district are designed to stabilize and protect the
essential characteristics desired in the district, to promote and encourage a
suitable environment for family life, and to promote orderly planning and
development of land uses by limiting activities other than residential in
nature from this district Public and private parks and schools are permitted
within the district provided that they serve the residents of the district.
More than one permitted principle structure per lot or parcel of land shall not
be permitted.
   (A)   Permitted primary uses.
      (1)   Single Family detached and attached site constructed buildings.
      (2)   Schools for academic instruction and associated facilities.
      (3)   Churches, nursery schools and childcare centers for four children
or less.
      (4)   Government operated parks and playgrounds.
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Private parking areas.
      (2)   Private swimming pools and tennis courts.
      (3)   Agricultural uses.
      (4)   Private noncommercial parks and open space.
      (5)   Living quarters with cooking facilities and not rented for guests
and employees of the premises.
      (6)   Keeping of not more than two roomers or boarders without kitchen
facilities.
      (7)   Home occupations.
   (C)   Permitted conditional uses. (Uses permitted only with Board of
Adjustment approval after consideration of the intent and purpose of these
regulations.)
      (1)   Kindergartens, nursery schools, and childcare centers for five and
not more than 12 children when accessory to and located in the same structure
with a single-family residential use. A fence and screened play area shall be
provided which shall contain not less than 25 square feet per child and shall
be located to the rear of and directly adjacent to the principle structure or
use.
      (2)   Temporary real estate sales office for the sale of lots located
only within the subdivision section in which lots are located, to be removed at
the end of one year or when all the lots are sold, whichever comes first.
      (3)   Cemeteries.
      (4)   Outdoor commercial recreation facilities such as golf courses,
zoological gardens, sportsman farms, riding stables, fishing lakes, swimming
pools, ball fields, tennis courts and campgrounds.
   (D)   R-2A Yard Area minimum requirements.
      (1)   Lot area is 4,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width is 30 feet.
      (3)   Front yard setback is 20 feet.
      (4)   Rear yard setback is 15 feet. Detached Auxiliary Structures are not
allowed in any yard.
      (5)   Side yard setback is ten feet on one side for end units of attached
structures or one side of detached structures, 0 feet for all other sides.
      (6)   On a corner lot or a lot fronting on two streets, the required
front yard setback shall be required on the side yard facing the street.
      (7)   A storm water drainage plan is required for development under this
zoning district. Required on-site drainage retention, if any, shall be set
aside as undeveloped area. There shall be no net increase in storm water runoff
rate offsite post development.
   (E)   R-2A Maximum requirements.
      (1)   Lot coverage is 50%.
      (2)   Building height is two stories or 34 feet.
   (F)   Private sewage systems. Where private sewage systems or on-site septic
treatment facilities are used, if the minimum lot area required by the health
department is greater than the minimum listed within the section, then the
health department reguired lot size shall be the required size.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 7-6-10)
§ 153.141 EXCLUSIVE USE ZONES.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Within the city, there are a number of land activities that have
characteristics of operations or development that do not readily permit
classification in the usual residential, commercial, industrial, public or
agricultural districts. However, they are necessary to the livability,
development or economic health of the community, or of such character that
their specific control is necessary.
      (2)   Some of the activities are permitted as conditional uses within the
particular residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural or public zones,
but the need for specifically enumerated performance standards and site
standards make inclusion as a conditional use in a particular zone inadequate,
since the restrictions in each zone must be applied equally to all uses within
the zone (to endeavor to ensure consistent and equal treatment), and the
conditions that may be attached by the Board of Adjustment may result in
treatment that is inconsistent and unequal.
      (3)   The exclusive use zones classification will allow flexibility in
the development and use of a particular property. It will allow specific site
and use standards to be enumerated and applied. Such standards will protect the
public health, safety and welfare more adequately, will assure more equal
treatment of the same or similar uses, and allow uses and site standards that
will promote the needs of the community.
   (B)   Establishment of exclusive use zones. Activities and properties placed
in an exclusive use zone are those that are not capable of a ready
classification, such as residential commercial, industrial, public or
agricultural, or that require a specific, unique regulation unnecessary or
inappropriate to other uses properly classified as to zone. Each such zone
shall be designated an exclusive use zone (EX-1 and the like) in order of
adoption. Each exclusive use zone adopted shall be included as an appendix to
this section.
   (C)   Requirements for all exclusive use zones. If applicable, each
exclusive use zone must include the following:
      (1)   Definition of the specific use to be permitted;
      (2)   Site, design and locational standards such as:
         (a)   Lot, yard and height requirements;
         (b)   Landscape buffer and fencing requirements;
         (c)   Sign restrictions;
         (d)   Access design requirements and limitations;
         (e)   Drainage requirements;
         (f)   Off-street parking requirements;
         (g)   Other site and design requirements determined to be necessary to
make the exclusive use compatible with neighboring land uses likely to be
affected by the activity or use.
   (D)   Bonding requirements. Performance bonds, setting forth the amount and
duration, may be required.
   (E)   Procedure; steps required for the approval of an exclusive use zone.
An exclusive use zone is approved in the same way as a zoning map amendment
(rezoning). After a public hearing, recommendation concerning the approval of
the designation of exclusive use zone is forwarded to the City Council for its
final action. The specific steps for approval, in order of occurrence, are as
follows:
      (1)   Pre-application conference with the Zoning Administer to review the
request and to provide suggestions concerning timing, designations requested,
site design and layout, as well as any other and relevant matter.
      (2)   Application provided by the Planning Commission office is completed
and submitted prior to established deadlines. All supplemental materials or
attachments must be submitted or the application will be considered incomplete
and not accepted.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing as for proposed
map amendment as provided by KRS 424, Chapter 10 of the comprehensive plan, §
153.451 and KRS Chapter 100. The public hearing shall consider all aspects of
the application. Within thirty (30) days after the last public hearing on the
application, the Planning Commission shall prepare and transmit to the City
Council and the applicant specific findings of fact, together with its
recommendations to the City Council with respect to the action to be taken on
the application for an exclusive use zone. The City Council shall have a period
of sixty (60) days to approve or reject, by resolution, the application. If the
application is rejected, the written reasons for the rejection shall be made
available.
      (4)   The development plan will be considered as a preliminary plat.
After approval by the City Council, a final development plan shall be submitted
to the Planning Commission for its consideration and approval. The submission
of the final development plan must be made within one hundred twenty (120) days
of the final approval of the exclusive use zone designation or that designation
will become null and void. The Planning Commission shall review and approve, if
appropriate, the final development plan. Within two (2) months of the approval
of the final development plan, a copy of the final development plan, with
appropriate original signatures affixed, shall be filed with the County Clerk
as a plat. Failure to file a final development plan shall void the development
plan and the exclusive use zone approvals.
      (5)   After the filing of the final development plan, the owner/developer
of the property approved for an exclusive use zone shall have three (3) years
to develop the property as set out in the final development plan, or the
development plan and exclusive use zone approvals shall become null and void.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 10-6-22)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.150 COORDINATION WITH SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
   In all cases where land is divided for the purpose of eventual development
of lots of any kind, the provisions of the Subdivision Regulations shall apply
in addition to the provisions of this zoning code.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.151 CONDITIONAL USES
   Conditional uses may be permitted in districts as designated under each
zoning district, but only when specifically approved by the Board of
Adjustment. All conditional uses must meet the following: such a use must be
essential to or would promote the public health, safety, or welfare in one (1)
or more zones, but which would impair the integrity and character of the zone
in which it is located, or in adjoining zones, unless restrictions on location,
size, extent, and character of performance are imposed in addition to those
imposed in the zoning code.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.152 NONCONFORMING USES; STRUCTURES
   The lawful use of a building or premises, existing at the time of adoption
of this zoning code may be continued, except as otherwise provided herein,
although such use does not conform to the provisions of such regulations. Non-
conforming structures remain subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   Extension. A non-conforming structure, or structure containing a non-
conforming use, shall not be enlarged, replaced or structurally altered except
as provided in subsections (C) and (F).
   (B)   Alteration. No structure containing a non-conforming use shall
hereafter be altered in a manner that would tend to prolong the non-conforming
use except for ordinary repairs.
   (C)   Discontinuance. No non-conforming use may be reestablished after it
has been discontinued for a period of twelve (12) months, except when
government action or structural damage prevents such use. Vacating of premises
or building or non-operative status shall be evidence of a discontinued use.
   (D)   Prior Approval. Proposed structures for which permits have been issued
prior to their designation as non-conforming by the adoption or amendment of
this chapter may be completed and used as originally intended provided they are
completed and in use one (1) year after the date on which the permit was
issued.
   (E)   Use Change. No non-conforming use may be changed to any other
nonconforming use unless the Board of Adjustment shall find that the proposed
non-conforming use has the same impact or less on the district than the
existing non-conforming use of the property. The Board of Adjustment may
specify such appropriate conditions and safeguards as may be required in
connection with such change and shall require the owner to meet all other
specifications of this regulation. This section does not allow for the
expansion of a non-conforming structure containing old or new non-conforming
uses.
   (F)   Repairs and Maintenance. On any non-conforming structure or portion of
structure, and on any structure containing a non-conforming use, work may be
done on ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of walls, fixtures,
wiring or plumbing or other parts, provided that the floor area or cubic
content of the nonconforming structure or portion shall not be increased.
Nothing in the zoning code shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening,
repairing or restoring to a safe condition of any structure or part thereof.
   (G)   Restoration. Whenever the non-conforming use of any structure or
premises is halted because of the damage, destruction or demolition of the
structure by any means, the structure involved may be reconstructed or repaired
in conformance with the zoning code and the non-conforming use resumed,
provided that such non-conforming use is not extended beyond the scope and area
of its operation as it existed prior to such damage, destruction or demolition.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.153 REQUIRED STREET FRONTAGE
   All lots shall front on an improved, public maintained street or road for
the minimum distance listed for each district except that lots which front on
turn-around of permanent dead-end streets or on curves, the required frontage
shall be measured at the building setback line.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.154 HEIGHT
   No building shall exceed two (2) stories or thirty-four (34) feet in height,
unless each side yard is increased over the required minimum by five (5) feet
for every five (5) feet, or fraction thereof, of additional height over thirty-
four (34) feet. In no case shall the height exceed fifty (50) feet. This
section shall not apply to the Industrial districts where the building height
shall not exceed seventy (70) feet. There shall be no height restrictions in
Agricultural districts, except in the proximity of airports - where FAA
restrictions shall apply.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.155 REAR DWELLING PROHIBITED
   No building in the rear of a main building on the same lot may be erected
for residential purposes.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.156 REDUCTIONS IN LOT AREA PROHIBITED
   No lot, even though it may consist of one or more adjacent lots of record,
shall be reduced in area so that yards, lot area per family, lot width,
building area, or other requirements of this regulation are not maintained.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.157 APPROVED SEWERAGE DISPOSAL
   It shall be unlawful to construct any building for human occupancy and use
without sewerage disposal facilities approved by the County Health Department.
Wherever sewer mains are accessible (within 500 feet), buildings shall be
connected to such mains. In every other case, individual sewerage disposal must
meet the requirements set by the State Plumbing Inspector. The Grayson County
Health Officer's review for proposed sewerage facilities or certificate
approving completed sewerage facilities must accompany applications for zoning
permits and certificates of compliance, respectively.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.158 REGULATION OF PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS
   Unless a plat has been approved for a multi-building project, only one (1)
principal building and authorized accessory structures are permitted, except as
stated in this chapter.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.159 SINKHOLES
   Sinkholes and other similar depressions and the area within fifty (50) feet
horizontally from the rim of said sinkhole or that area subject to periodic
flooding, whichever is greater, shall be preserved in its natural state for the
purpose of providing drainage of the surrounding area. No building, street or
any other improvement shall be made within the given area around a sinkhole.
The Planning Commission shall have the power to increase the area around the
sinkhole if drainage conditions warrant such action. The sinkhole may be
"punched" or otherwise altered to improve drainage.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.160 FLOOD PLAINS
   The Administrative Official shall uphold the Grayson County or Leitchfield
Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.161 MEDICAL PERMITTED ZONES, REGULATIONS AND USES.
   (A)   Medicinal cannabis dispensary. Allowed only in Zone C-1 , Highway
Commercial. In addition to state law requirements, a medicinal cannabis
dispensary must meet the following conditions:
      (1)   Exterior signage may only, at most, include text that is the
licensee's (1) business or trade name: (2) location and contact information:
and (3) business type.
      (2)   Exterior signage cannot include a licensee's logo, symbol, branded
colors or any images, including, but not limited to, depicting cannabis/
cannabis products or the imagery or action of smoking/vaping.
      (3)   Exterior signs also cannot include mottos, selling messages, or any
other non-essential text.
      (4)   Exterior signs must be on the same parcel as the store and affixed
to a building or permanent structure (e.g., signpost).
      (5)   Exterior signage cannot be larger than necessary to reasonably
display the information on the sign to individuals within or near the licensed
premises and cannot be illuminated by neon lights.
   (B)   Medicinal cannabis cultivator. Allowed only in Zone I-1, Light
Industrial and Zone A Agricultural.
   (C)   Medicinal cannabis processor. Allowed only in Zone I-1, Light
Industrial and Zone A Agricultural.
   (D)   Medicinal cannabis producer. Allowed only in Zone I-1, Light
Industrial and Zone A Agricultural.
   (E)   Medicinal cannabis safety compliance facility. Allowed only in Zone C-
1, Highway Commercial and Zone I-1, Light Industrial and Zone A Agricultural.
(Ord. 2024-31, passed 12-16-24)
§ 153.175 OBSTRUCTIONS
   Corner lots in all districts shall be free from all obstructions to traffic
visibility according to the sight triangle standards defined in §
153.008. The requirements of §
153.008 shall not be deemed to prohibit any necessary retaining wall.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.176 BUILDING SETBACK LINES
   A building setback line shall be established to provide a front yard for all
buildings and structures at the minimum distance found in the schedule of Lot
Dimensions and Area Regulations.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.177 CORNER LOTS SETBACK REQUIREMENTS
   In residential districts, if the required building setback is greater than
twenty-five (25) feet from the street right-of-way, a corner building either
along its front or side, shall not be closer than the distance established for
the building setback line in that district.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.178 DOUBLE-FRONTAGE LOTS
   Double frontage lots shall, on both adjacent streets, meet the front yard
requirements of the district in which they are located.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.179 APPLICATION OF YARDS TO ONE BUILDING ONLY
   No part of a yard required for any building may be included as fulfilling
the yard requirements for an adjacent building.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.180 USE OF YARDS FOR ACCESSORY BUILDINGS
   No accessory buildings are permitted in the front yards. They are permitted
only in rear or side yards according to the dimension and area regulations.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
SIGNS; OUTDOOR ADVERTISING
§ 153.200 CLASSIFICATION
   Outdoor advertising shall be classified as a business use and shall be
permitted in all Agriculture, Business and Industrial Districts. Outdoor
advertising devices except as provided in §
153.375, shall be prohibited in all residential zones.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.201 LOCATION
   Industrial, Commercial, Neighborhood Business, General Business and
Agricultural Districts. No outdoor advertising sign or display shall be
erected, placed, painted or repainted or hung nearer to any street right-of-way
line upon which said display faces the building lines provided in zones where
the use is permitted except that one sign advertising the primary nature of the
business or industry conducted on the premises may be placed not closer than
six (6) feet to the street right-of-way line, but in no case be permitted to
obstruct the view of traffic.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2018-05, passed 4-2-18) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.202 SIZE; PLACEMENT
   (A)   Industrial, Commercial, General Business and Agricultural Districts.
A single sign, billboard or other advertising device containing no more than
200 square feet (including border) shall be permitted in industrial,
commercial, general business and agricultural zones. No more than four (4)
signs may be erected together containing no more than 200 square feet total.
Such signs shall be erected within fifty (50) feet of a common point. Any other
sign, or signs, shall be at least 1,000 feet from this point. No sign,
billboard or other such device shall be built at a height greater than the
maximum building height permitted in the district in which it is located.
   (B)   Neighborhood Business. All outdoor advertising signs shall have no
more than one hundred (100) square feet, no more than two (2) signs per
business or have a height greater than the maximum building height permitted in
the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2018-05, passed 4-2-18) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.203 LIGHTING; NOISE
   Signs or other outdoor advertising which involve lighting or motion
resembling traffic or directional signals, warnings; such as "stop" or
"danger", or any other similar signs which are normally associated with highway
safety regulations, are prohibited. Additionally, no sign or outdoor commercial
advertising device because of light, glare, focus, animation, or flashing, or
any illuminated signs of such intensity or illumination shall not unduly
disturb the use of residential property. Any illuminated sign(s) of such
intensity or illumination as to unduly disturb the use of residential property
shall have devices which eliminate noise or sound. Excessive glare producing
signs shall be prohibited from affecting residential areas.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.204 MAINTENANCE; COMPLIANCE
   Outdoor advertising structures shall be adequately maintained. Such
maintenance shall include proper alignment of structures, continued readability
of the structure and preservation of the structure with paint and other
preservative. If an outdoor advertising structure is not maintained, nor
complies with the provisions of this chapter, written notice of any disrepair
shall be issued by the Planning Commission to the owner of said structure. If
the disrepair or violation is not corrected within sixty (60) days of issuance
of said notice, said structure shall be removed at the owner's expense.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.205 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS; ADVERTISING STRUCTURES
   Any advertising sign, billboard, commercial advertising structure or
statuary which is existing and maintained at the time this regulation becomes
effective, which does not conform with the provisions hereof, shall not be
structurally altered except to comply with this chapter.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 153.225 PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR CHANGE IN PRINCIPAL USE
   When the principal use is changed to a use for which additional parking
space is required under the provisions of this chapter, it shall be unlawful to
begin or maintain such altered use until such time as the required off-street
parking is provided.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.226 MINIMUM DESIGN; MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS
   Every parcel of land hereafter used as a parking area shall be designed and
maintained in accordance with the following requirements:
   (A)   Off-street parking areas shall equal or exceed the number of spaces
required and shall be of usable shape and surface and have convenient ingress
and egress. Aisles and access drives shall be designed so as to provide
adequate vehicular maneuvering wholly upon the property being served.
   (B)   All driveways shall be a minimum of five (5) feet from the property
line except single family residential units or as otherwise provided for in
this chapter.
   (C)   Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas shall be
arranged so as to reflect away from any adjoining residential zone or uses or
private right-of-ways.
   (D)   Any off-street parking area having more than 1,800 square feet of area
and/or used by eight (8) or more vehicles shall be landscaped and screened as
required by this chapter.
   (E)   All parking areas shall be paved and drained so as to dispose of all
surface water within the parking area without carrying said water accumulation
over a public sidewalk. Piping the water to a suitable outfall may be required.
   (F)   Where parking areas are provided for eight (8) or more vehicles or
contain more than 1,800 square feet of area or are enlarged or expanded to
provide eight (8) or more vehicles or contain more than 1,800 square feet of
area, they shall be paved with an asphalt, concrete, brick, or other properly
bound surface, so as to be durable and dustless. Each parking space shall be
physically delineated on the surface of the parking area. All driveway aprons
shall be paved.
   (G)   All parking spaces located along the perimeter of a parking area or
adjacent to any structure on the lot shall be provided with concrete or other
wheel protection for any landscape materials and sidewalks.
   (H)   Fire lanes shall be at least twenty (20) feet in width with the road
edge closest to the building at least ten (10) feet from the building. The
designation, use, and maintenance of fire lanes on private property shall be
accomplished as specified by the Fire Department.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.227 AUTOMOBILE REQUIREMENTS
   (A)   Existing Parking Space. Existing off-street parking space provided for
any building or use at the time of the enactment of this regulation shall not
thereafter be reduced unless it exceeds the requirements of this regulation.
Any existing building or use not providing off-street parking space in
conformance with this regulation shall at the time of any structural alteration
of the building or expansion of the use, provide the required parking.
   (B)   Required Off-Street Parking Space. Off-street parking space shall be
provided on the premises so that there will be no generation of automobile
parking on any street. For purposes of computing the number of spaces available
in a given area, a standard vehicle parking space shall be computed as an area
measuring 10 X 20 feet. Additional area will be required in order to provide
vehicle maneuvering space, access and egress.
   (C)   Off-Street Parking Standards. The following standards comprise the
minimum off-street parking requirements for the several common types of
buildings and uses listed. Where more than one use occupies a building, the
total of the combined standards shall be required.
      (1)   Single-Family Residences. Two (2) spaces per dwelling unit.
      (2)   Apartment House. One and one-half (1-1/2) spaces per unit.
      (3)   Boarding Houses and Rooming Houses. One (1) space for the first two
rooms and one (1) space for each additional two rooms.
      (4)   Hotels and Motels. One (1) space per unit plus one (1) space per
each three employees.
      (5)   Auditorium. Theater or Stadium or Other Similar Use - One (1)
parking space for each five seats available at maximum capacity.
      (6)   Church. One (1) space for each three seats available at maximum
capacity.
      (7)   Restaurant. One (1) space for each three seats available at maximum
capacity. Employee parking shall be provided at the ratio of one space for each
three (3) employees.
      (8)   Commercial or Business Building. Four (4) spaces for the first
1,000 square feet of floor space used and usable in the sale of merchandise,
and one (1) additional space for each additional 250 square feet of such floor
space.
      (9)   Manufacturing and Warehousing. One (1) parking space for each two
(2) employees at maximum facility employment on a single shift plus one car
space for each truck operated by the business. The Planning Commission may
require additional space if it deems necessary.
   (D)   Off-Street Loading and Unloading Regulations for Trucks. All buildings
and uses which generate regular trucking traffic shall be provided with
sufficient offstreet loading and unloading space on the premises so that they
will generate no loading or unloading activity on their required parking spaces
or on any street.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.228 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS
   (A)   Arrangement of Off-Street Parking Space. Off-street parking space
required for any building or use may be located within 200 feet from the
premises it serves, but detached there from, or may be consolidated into a
large parking area serving other buildings and uses. Either arrangement must be
approved by the Planning Commission. Such parking space, if allowed, shall be
deemed required space associated with the permitted use and shall not hereafter
be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
   (B)   Proof of Availability. The Planning Commission may require a plat,
deed, or any other proof necessary to show that the required parking space, if
located off the premises it serves, is controlled by and available to the
applicant prior to the granting of a zoning/building permit.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.250 MANUFACTURED HOUSING
   (A)   Permitted. Single Family manufactured housing occupied by a resident
not solely engaged in agricultural activity shall be allowed in the "R-3" and
"R-6" districts. Single family manufactured housing shall be allowed in the "R-
1" and "R-2" districts subject to modular housing standards. Manufactured home
parks shall be authorized in the "R-6" district.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.251 FOUNDATION
   All manufactured housing must be placed either on concrete foundations or
mortared concrete blocks. The bottom of the manufactured housing unit must not
be more than four (4) feet above the ground at any point. A solid form of
permanent material must be built between the ground and the bottom outside edge
of the manufactured housing unit.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.252 ANCHORAGE AND TIE-DOWN
   Every space for manufactured units shall be provided with devices for
anchoring the unit to prevent overturning or uplift. The owner shall be
responsible for causing the unit to be anchored. Where concrete platforms are
provided for the parking of manufactured units, anchorage shall be provided
with eyelets embedded in the concrete with adequate anchor plates or hooks, or
other suitable means. The anchorage shall be adequate to withstand wind forces
and uplift as required by the Kentucky Building Code.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
Cross reference:
   Building Regulations, see
Ch. 150
MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
§ 153.275 PERMITTED
   No manufactured home park shall be permitted on an area of less than one (1)
acre in size. The developer may be permitted to develop the park in stages as
long as he/she complies with the overall approved plan for the entire tract.
The number of manufactured housing units permitted in the park shall not exceed
a density of ten (10) manufactured housing units per net acre. A net acre being
the land to be subdivided into lots after streets and other required
improvements have been installed.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.276 LOT REQUIREMENTS
   Individual lots within a manufactured home park shall not be less than 4,000
square feet in area and on a Health Department approved sewerage disposal
system and in no instance shall more than one (1) manufactured housing unit be
permitted on a single lot. The minimum lot width shall be fifty (50) feet.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
Cross reference:
   Approved sewerage disposal, see §
153.157
§ 153.277 SETBACK
   No manufactured housing unit or structure shall be located closer to any
public street than the minimum front yard setback for permanent residential
structures in the residential zone in which the park is located. No
manufactured housing unit shall be located closer than twenty-five (25) feet to
any building or street within the park or to any property line of the park.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.278 FRONTAGE
   All manufactured home parks shall front on a public street or road for at
least one hundred (100) feet.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.279 SPACING
   No manufactured housing unit shall be located within twenty-five (25) feet
of another manufactured housing unit except that a minimum end-to-end clearance
of not less than fifteen (15) feet shall be permitted, and in instances where
the sides opposite the entrance of two manufactured housing units may be
reduced to not less than twenty (20) feet.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.280 STREETS
   All manufactured housing spaces shall abut upon a street within the trailer
park and shall have a right-of-way of not less than twenty-five (25) feet and a
pavement of not less than twenty (20) feet. Each park shall have at least one
street which gives access to a public street. Such access streets in either a
single manufactured home park or parks, shall not be less than 100 feet apart
nor be less than 125 feet from an intersection of two or more public streets.
All streets within the park shall be paved, hard surfaced and well drained and
well lighted. No street right-of-way within the manufactured home park shall be
within five (5) feet of the property line. The owner of the manufactured home
park shall maintain the streets within the park.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.281 PARKING
   One paved automobile parking area shall be provided on every manufactured
housing lot, plus 1/2 parking space for each manufactured home lot. This
additional parking may be in a central location, but in no case more than 300
feet from the manufactured housing unit for which it is provided.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.282 UTILITIES
   All lots within the manufactured home park shall be provided with water,
sewer and electrical facilities meeting the standards specified by city, county
and state regulations, and each manufactured housing unit shall be properly
connected with said utilities.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
Cross reference:
   Building regulations, see
Ch. 150
§ 153.283 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
   No accessory structures including patios and pads shall be located within
five (5) feet from any manufactured housing lot line. The maximum floor area
shall be 100 square feet and the maximum height shall be no greater than 10
feet.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.284 FOUNDATION
   All manufactured housing must be placed either on concrete foundation or
mortared concrete blocks.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.285 ANCHORAGE AND TIE-DOWN
   Every space for manufactured units shall be provided with devices for
anchoring the unit to prevent overturning or uplift. The owner shall be
responsible for causing the unit to be anchored. Where concrete platforms are
provided for the parking of manufactured units, anchorage shall be provided
with eyelets embedded in the concrete with adequate anchor plates or hooks, or
other suitable means. The anchorage shall be adequate to withstand wind forces
and uplift as required by the Kentucky Building Code.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
Cross reference:
   Building regulations, see
Ch. 150
§ 153.286 CONNECTING STRUCTURES
   Only porches, stairs, and other open structures may be attached to a
manufactured housing unit. No structure for human occupancy shall be built to
the manufactured home.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.287 PROCEDURE
   In applying for a zoning permit for a manufactured home park, the applicant
shall submit his plan to the Planning Commission for its approval in accordance
with the Preliminary Plat approval of the City Subdivision Regulations. The
plan shall show the following information:
   (A)   Plat of the entire park property.
   (B)   Subdivision of the property, including all streets, dimensions of
streets, and lots, access to public streets, and public areas such as visitor
parking spaces, recreational areas, swimming pools, etc. if such areas are
proposed.
   (C)   Location and layout of all utilities, including pipe sizes, meter
locations, valves, fire hydrants, sanitary sewer connections, manholes, and
connections to the existing public utilities.
   (D)   Typical layout of one manufactured home lot, showing manufactured
housing unit location, automobile parking spaces, patio, garbage can receptors,
etc.
   (E)   Location of planting to be provided for landscaping purposes, or as
required for protective buffer.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.288 ZONING PERMIT
   The Planning Commission may attach reasonable special conditions to its
approval of a manufactured home park and may direct the Administrative Officer
to issue a zoning permit when the applicant presents a valid construction
permit from the State Department of Health, as required by Kentucky Revised
Statutes 219.150. The Administrative Officer shall not issue the zoning permit
until he/she has received written authorization from the Planning Commission,
or Board of Adjustment, and until the valid construction permit is presented.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.289 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE
   The Administrative Officer shall issue a Certificate of Compliance only
after he has determined that the manufactured home park has been prepared
according to all applicable state regulations and special conditions and only
after the applicant presents a valid permit to operate from the State
Department of Health as required by Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.290 ENFORCEMENT
   The Administrative Officer shall insure that all manufactured home parks
maintain valid permits to operate and maintain conformance with all applicable
regulations of the zoning code and all special conditions.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.291 EXISTING HOUSING UNITS
   All existing manufactured housing units within the planning unit which
complied with all existing regulations at the time of passage of this chapter
shall be allowed to remain in their present location. No future manufactured
housing unit in a new site shall be permanently located outside of an approved
park, except as provided in Agricultural and Residential Districts.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.292 CONFLICTS
   All parts of any existing regulation in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
APARTMENT HOUSES
§ 153.300 PERMITTED
   Apartment houses shall be permitted in the R-5 residential districts.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.301 AREA; DENSITY REQUIREMENTS
   An apartment house shall have a minimum lot area of 12,500 square feet for
the first two units. For each additional unit, there shall be an additional
3,500 square feet. The minimum required lot width at the building line shall be
100 feet. If municipal sewers are not available for an apartment complex, the
required health department lot dimensions shall apply.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.302 YARD REQUIREMENTS
   Front Yard:   25 feet
   Rear Yard:   10 feet
   Side Yard:   15 feet
Corner lots shall meet the applicable requirements of §
153.177.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.303 LOT COVERAGE
   The combined area occupied by all principal and accessory buildings shall
not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total lot area.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.304 OFF-STREET PARKING
   Off-street parking shall be provided on site only. All parking areas shall
be hard-surface concrete or asphalt and shall provide one and one-half space
per dwelling unit.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.305 PROCEDURE
   (A)   An applicant, before applying for a zoning permit or beginning
construction, shall prepare a plan or sketch showing lot dimensions and
bearings of the parcel intended to be developed, the location, the intended
general layout and design and improvements to be installed on the land. The
proposal may be reviewed by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Before approving the intended development plan, the Planning
Commission may make conditional requirements pertaining to landscaping,
screening, road requirements, open space or any other similar requirements.
These requirements shall be made part of the plan before approval is given to
the plat. Once approval is received, a zoning permit may be issued.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
Cross reference:
   Zoning permits, issuance, see §
153.027
JUNK YARDS
§ 153.325 CLASSIFICATION
   Junk yards are conditional uses, permitted only in industrial zones.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.326 REGULATIONS
   All junk yards shall comply with the following regulations:
   (A)   All junk yards must be completely screened from the surrounding
property with said screening being not less than eight (8) feet in height. The
Planning Commission shall be required to approve the type of screening used,
   (B)   Any junk yard located closer than 2,000 feet from a center line of any
public road must comply with the Kentucky Revised Statutes, Chapter 177. The
Administrative Officer shall insure that all junk yards comply with city and
state regulations,
   (C)   No junk shall be left outside of the screened area for more than
twenty-four (24) hours,
   (D)   No junk yard shall be within 1,000 feet of any residential zone,
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the power to determine if a parcel
is being used for a junk yard or not. An occupational license, sign, words, or
written agreements shall not be evidence alone as to whether a parcel of a land
is being used for a junk yard, and
   (F)   As junk yards can be a threat to the public health and safety through
groundwater contamination, insect breeding grounds, eyesores, etc. any junk
yard must meet Federal and State standards in order to continue to operate.
Those found to be in violation shall be notified and be instructed to be
brought into compliance.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
WALLS; FENCES
§ 153.350 REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTIONS
   Walls and fences shall not be permitted any closer to the street than the
yard setback as established by the zoning code or subdivision plat filed or any
closer than the house/principal structure, except for permitted schools,
cemeteries, government buildings and agricultural uses. Residential permitted
side and rear yard fencing and walls shall not exceed eight (8) feet in height
and shall not contain any barbed wire.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.351 PUBLICLY DEDICATED ALLEYS
   Where a lot in a residential or commercial zone abuts a publicly dedicated
alley, a wall or fence shall be permitted to be located on the property line in
the yard that abuts the alley, provided any gate swings in toward the property.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.352 INDUSTRIAL YARD ZONES
   Walls and fences shall be permitted in any yard in an industrial zone. There
shall be no height restriction placed on any wall of fence erected or
maintained in industrial zones, and any barbed wire construction shall be not
less than six (6) feet above ground level.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
CONFORMING USES; EXCEPTIONS
§ 153.375 USE EXCEPTIONS
   Several types of structures and uses are permitted in all districts even
though they are not listed as permitted uses under the zoning district
regulations. No zoning permit or certificate of compliance is required for the
following structures and uses:
   (A)   Local public utility distributing and collecting structures, such as
pipe and transmission lines, transformers and meters.
   (B)   Public streets and all official appurtenances necessary for traffic
direction and safety. All streets and traffic control signs shall conform to
the code established and adopted by the Kentucky Department of Transportation.
   (C)   Private drive, private parking areas, and the parking of vehicles
incidental to the principal use on the same premises.
   (D)   Real estate signs or subdivision signs advertising property for sale
or rent with less than an area of forty-eight (48) square feet.
   (E)   Signs not over two (2) square feet in area identifying permitted home
occupations or the renting of sleeping rooms on the same premises in
residential zones.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.376 HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS
   Height regulations apply to buildings occupied regularly by persons or their
activities. They do not apply to structures or portions of buildings such as
radio towers, ornamental spires, water towers, smoke stacks, silos, and flag
poles which are not occupied regularly by persons except for maintenance,
unless otherwise stipulated in the zoning code. The Board of Adjustment shall
interpret whether or not height regulations apply upon application by the
Administrative Officer in doubtful cases. The Kentucky Airport Zoning and the
Federal Aviation Agency height regulations in the vicinity of an airport shall
take precedence over all other height regulations.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.377 LOTS OF RECORD
   (A)   Where the owner of a lot of official record, which at the time of the
adoption, approval and effective date of this chapter, does not include
sufficient land to conform to the yard or other requirements of this section,
an application may be submitted to the Board of Adjustment for a variance from
the terms of this section in accordance with provisions of §
153.084.
   (B)   Such lot may be used as a building site provided, however, that the
yard and other requirements of the district are complied with as closely as is
possible in the opinion of the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
Development Requirements
§ 153.400 ADJACENT TO RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
   All commercial or industrial uses located on lots adjacent to a residential
district shall maintain a minimum setback requirement of fifty (50) feet on the
side adjacent to the residential district.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.401 STRUCTURES ON CORNER LOTS
   All commercial structures on corner lots defined in §
153.008 shall meet the provisions of §§
153.175 and
153.177.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.402 SIGN REQUIREMENTS
   All signs identifying the commercial activity on the same premises shall
meet the provisions of §§
153.200 -
153.205.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.403 DEVELOPMENT CHARACTERISTICS
   All uses in commercial districts shall exhibit characteristics equal to or
less than those characteristics which define Light Industry.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99) Penalty see §
153.999
§ 153.404 BUFFER AREAS
   A permanent landscaped buffer of evergreen plant material or a solid wall or
fence or other suitable enclosure of a minimum effective height of six (6)
feet, to act as an effective screen shall be required on all rear and side
yards of multi-family, manufactured home parks, commercial or industrial land
adjacent to a residential district, or within view of a residential use. The
same requirement applies to front yards adjacent to a residential district,
except the required height shall be two (2) to three (3) feet in height. In
addition, multi-family and manufactured home parks shall provide screening from
adjacent commercial or industrial districts.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.405 DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   Plans for building construction, parking areas, yards, driveways, entrances,
exits and screenings (including location, type and height) shall be approved by
the Planning Commission. The Commission may require such changes therein as may
be deemed necessary or desirable to ensure safety, to minimize traffic
difficulties and to safeguard adjacent properties.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.406 LOT SIZES; BUILDING SCALES.
   The yard requirements of surrounding residential districts shall apply in
Neighborhood Business Districts. When a Neighborhood Business District is
between one or more residential districts, the Planning Commission shall decide
the standards to be applied in the District. In addition, these structures must
be similar in size and scale as in one of the surrounding Residential
Districts.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
FEES; CHARGES
§ 153.425 SCHEDULE OF FEES; CHARGES; EXPENSES.
   (A)   A schedule of fees, charges and expenses and a collection procedure
for appeals from the Board of Adjustment action, variances, conditional use
permits, zoning/building permits, certificates of compliance, and requests for
zone changes, may be established by the City Council. No conditional use permit
or variance or other change shall be granted nor shall any action be taken on
proceedings before the Board of Adjustment unless or until preliminary charges
and fees have been paid in full.
   (B)   Planning Commission and Board of Adjustment requests must be
accompanied by the County Clerk filing fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) to file
the Certificate of Land Use Restriction.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.426 REZONING REQUEST.
   Rezoning of any district:
      6.2a.    0 - 5.99 acres      $125.00
      6.2b.    6 or more acres   $125.00 plus $2.00 per additional acre
                     (not to exceed $500.00)
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.427 BUILDING/ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   Building/Construction Permit Fees
      (1)   New Residential Single-Family, Single-Family Manufactured and Two-
Family Construction:
         $0.12 per square foot of Living Space (including garage).
         $0.03 per square foot of Basement Space.
         $0.08 per square foot of Auxiliary Structure ($25.00 minimum)
         $0.10 per square foot of Addition.
         Example: 1,800 sq. ft. home x $0.12 = $216.00
         Same home with complete basement x $0.03 = $270.00
      (2)   Sign Installation   $25.00 per sign.
   (B)   Zoning Permit Fee
      (1)   Multi-Family, Business, Commercial, and Industrial Structures
$75.00
      (2)   Business, Commercial, Industrial and Multi-Family Structures.
         (a)   First 10,000 square feet   $0.12/square feet
         (b)   10,001 - 20,000 square feet   $0.06/square feet
         (c)   20,001 and above      $0.03/square feet
         (d)   $0.03 per square foot of basement space
         (e)   $0.08 per square foot of auxiliary structure ($25 minimum)
         (f)   $0.10 per square foot of addition ($25)
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2003-3, passed 4-7-03; Am. Ord. 2004-1,
passed 1-5-04)
§ 153.428 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
      Cost   $75.00
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.429 VARIANCE REQUEST.
      Cost    $35.00
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
AMENDMENTS
§ 153.450 ZONING TEXT AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to this chapter shall be performed in the same manner as adoption
of the original chapter and in conformance with Kentucky Revised Statutes,
Chapter 100, with a minimum of two (2) public hearings, the first held by the
Planning Commission, and the second to be published and held by the City
Council.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
Cross reference:
   Public meetings, see
Ch. 34A
§ 153.451 MAP AMENDMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A proposal for amendments to the Zoning District Map may originate
only with the Planning Commission, the City Council and the owner of the
subject property. An owner of property may delegate his or her authority to
request a zoning map amendment to his/her agent by written document.
   (B)   Regardless of the origin of the proposed amendment, an application
must be filed with the Commission requesting the proposed amendment in such
form and accompanied by such information as required by this chapter and the
bylaws of the Planning Commission. At the time of filing the amendment, a non-
returnable filing fee shall be required as set forth in this chapter; however,
there shall be no filing fee for amendment requested by the City Council,
Planning Commission or any other governmental agency. Upon filing of an
application for a map amendment by a governmental body, the Commission shall
promptly notify the owner of the subject property as required by Kentucky
Revised Statutes Chapter 100.
   (C)   Amendments to the zoning map shall be promptly posted on the map by
the Commission. Each amendment shall be identified on the map by a numerical
designation referring to the Planning Commission record of the amendment
proceedings.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.452 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   Prior to filing an application for a zoning map amendment, the applicant is
encouraged to meet with the Planning Commission to discuss the proposed
amendment. The purpose of this conference is to discuss, at the earliest
stages, the requirements, procedures and issues related to the proposed
amendment. It is intended that this conference will help to alleviate possible
conflicts by early recognition of existing conditions, necessary facilities,
recommendations of the adopted Comprehensive Plan and other issues related to
the proposed amendment.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.453 COMMISSION PROCEDURE.
   Upon the filing of an application for an amendment to the Zoning District
Map, the Commission shall direct the Administrative Official to review the
application, make whatever studies the Commission deems necessary and report
his/her findings at a public hearing. In addition, the Commission may require
the applicant to submit further information subsequent to the filing of an
application if necessary to make a recommendation.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.454 NOTICE.
   (A)   All procedures for public notice and publication, as well as for
adoption, shall be the same as for the original enactment of a Zoning code
pursuant to Kentucky Revised Statutes, Chapter 100, except as provided in
subsection (B).
   (B)   Notice of the time, place, and reason for public hearing shall be
given at least fourteen (14) days in advance of the hearing by first class
mail, with certification by the Commission secretary or other officer of the
Planning Commission that the notice was mailed to an owner of every parcel of
property adjoining the property the classification of which is proposed to be
changed. It shall be the duty of the person or persons proposing the map
amendment to furnish the Planning Commission the names and addresses of the
owners of all adjoining property, including tracts across a road or street.
Records maintained by the Property Valuation Administrator may be relied upon
to determine the identity and address of the owner.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.455 POSTING SUBJECT PROPERTY.
   When a map amendment (zone change) is proposed, an appropriate sign stating
the proposed amendment and the time, date and location of the public hearing
shall be posted on the property in question, or where more than one (1) piece
of property is involved, the sign shall be posted in a central and conspicuous
location. The sign shall be posted at least fourteen (14) days consecutively
before the public hearing by the Secretary of the Planning Commission or a
person appointed by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.456 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Upon receipt of a completed application, receipt of fee, notice of map
amendment on the subject property and notification of interested parties, the
Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment, per Kentucky
Revised Statutes, Chapter 100.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
Cross reference:
   Public meetings, see
Ch. 34A
§ 153.457 RECOMMENDATION OF COMMISSION.
   Before making recommendations to the City Council on a proposed map
amendment, the Planning Commission shall make Findings of Fact, as required by
Kentucky Revised Statutes, Chapter 100. Findings of Fact made by the Commission
shall be recorded in the minutes and records of the Planning Commission. After
voting to recommend that an application for an amendment to the zoning map be
granted or denied, the Commission shall forward its Findings of Fact and
recommendation in writing to the Leitchfield City Council.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.458 NECESSARY FINDINGS.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 100.213 before any map amendment is granted, the
Planning Commission, and/or the City Council, must find that:
      (1)   The map amendment is in agreement with the city's comprehensive
plan, or,
      (2)   In the absence of such a finding, that one (1) or more of the
following apply and such findings shall be recorded in the minutes and records
of the Planning Commission or the legislative body:
         (a)   That the existing zoning classification given to the property
was inappropriate and the proposed zoning classification is appropriate; and/or
         (b)   That there have been major changes of an economic, physical or
social nature within the area involved which were not anticipated in the city's
comprehensive plan and which have substantially altered the basic character of
such area.
   (B)   The Planning Commission or legislative body must make findings to
support these conclusions. A simple restatement of the above conditions does
not constitute a proper findings of fact. The evidence adduced at the public
hearing must support the findings of the Planning Commission or legislative
body.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99)
§ 153.999 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements; including violation of the conditions and safeguards
established in connection with granting of variances or conditional uses,
pursuant to the provisions of §§ 153.083 and 153.084, shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person, group of persons, including members of the legislative and
administrative bodies of the city, who violates any provision of this chapter,
or who fails to comply with any of its requirements, shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined of not less than ten dollars ($10) but not more than five
hundred dollars ($500) for each offense. Each day of violation shall constitute
a separate offense. Any person shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than
one hundred dollars ($100) but not more than five hundred dollars ($500) for
each lot or parcel that was the subject of sale or transfer, or a contract for
sale or transfer, where such sale or transfer, or contract therefor,
constitutes a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 99-6, passed 7-19-99; Am. Ord. 2023-08, passed 4-17-23)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
154.01   Statutory authorization
   
154.02   Findings of fact
   
154.03   Statement of purpose
   
154.04   Objectives
   
154.05   Definitions
General Provisions
   
154.10   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
154.11   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
154.12   Development permit
   
154.13   Compliance
   
154.14   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.15   Interpretation
   
154.16   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
154.20   Designation of Local Administrator
   
154.21   Establishment of development permit
   
154.22   Duties and responsibilities of the Local Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.30   General construction standards
   
154.31   Specific standards
   
154.32   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways
   
154.33   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
154.34   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
154.35   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter "A"
   
154.36   Critical facilities
Appeals and Variance Procedures
   
154.40   Appeals and variance procedures
 
   
154.99   Enforcement, violation notice and penalties
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky has in KRS Chapter 100
delegated to local government units the authority to adopt regulations designed
to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
Therefore, the City Council hereby adopts the following floodplain management
ordinance, as follows.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential home buyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual chance flood
(100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Accessory structures should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and should be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of
accessory structures are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns,
and hay sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE.  A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter or height of a structure.
   AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual chance flood
(100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are determined.
   AO ZONE. An area of 300-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
determined.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator's ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1-A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO AND AR/A ZONES . Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   A99 ZONE. That part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.  A designated AO or AH Zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD). Base flood is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and AR/
AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a
1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT.  Any area of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING.  See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. This includes areas downstream from dams.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the Regular
Program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.  Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE.  An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. For insurance proposes, a non-basement structure built
to have the lowest floor elevated above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure's elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. That portion of a structure below the lowest floor used solely
for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. Existing construction may also be referred to
as existing structures.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured  homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-year flood have a moderate
risk of flooding.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source;
      (3)   Mudslides which are proximately caused by flooding and are akin to
a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas,
as when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of
the current;
      (4)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated the areas of flood hazards and the
regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e. mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated special flood hazard areas and risk
premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) containing flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water
surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by the community to
administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.  This chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other
applications of police power, which control development in flood-prone areas.
This term describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination
thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, the FEMA form in effect at the time of certification
stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant utilities and
sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all structural
components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic flood forces,
including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway.
   FREEBOARD . A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. Freeboard must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, etc.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §
154.40, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the City Council
will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to100
years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those
increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
      FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity  to water. The term includes only a docking
or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY.  The local governing unit, i.e. county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g. safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.  The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior, or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).  
      (1)   Under the standard flood insurance policy the cost to repair a
substantially flood damaged building that exceeds the minimal repair cost and
that is required to bring a substantially damaged building into compliance with
the local flood damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are
floodproofing (nonresidential), relocation, elevation, demolition, or any
combination thereof.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and non-residential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMC's include the following
categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was inadvertently included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION - BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A determination
that a structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill
above the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood-resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE.  The lowest elevation of the sidewalk, patio,
attached garage, deck support, basement entryway or grade immediately next to
the structure and after the completion of construction.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or
without a permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required
utilities. The term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar
transportable structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer
and intended to be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not
include a recreational vehicle (see RECREATIONAL VEHICLE).
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER.  The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a
letter suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel.
The letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been
revised. (The letter "A" is not used by FEMA, the letter "B" is the first
revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The property value (as agreed between a willing buyer and
seller), excluding the value of the land as established by what the local real
estate market will bear. Market value of the structure can be established by
independent certified appraisal, replacement cost depreciated by age of
structure (actual cash value) or adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on the community's FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow,
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide (i.e. mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is
in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT.  The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.
mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRM's. ( Refer
to FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by
a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL.  Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but is not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRM's and Digitally Referenced FIRM's
(DFIRM's). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM panel legend for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD) (See also BASE FLOOD). The flood
that has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Any flood zone that begins with the letter A is subject to inundation by the
100-year flood. Over the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of
experiencing such a flood with the SFHA.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. New construction or substantial improvements for
which start of construction occurred after December 31, 1974, or on or after
the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. New construction or substantial improvements for
which start of construction occurred on or before December 31,1974, or before
the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A FEMA imposed change in community's status resulting from
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community's floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community's participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and flood elevations
determined in the FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   REPETITIVE LOSS PROPERTY.  Any insurable building for which two or more
claims of more than $1,000 were paid by the National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) within any rolling ten-year period, since 1978. At least two of the
claims must be more than ten days apart but, within ten years of each other. A
repetitive loss property may or may not be currently insured by the NFIP.
   RIVERINE . Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   SEVERE REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE.   
      (1)   Any insured property that has met at least one of the following
paid flood loss criteria since 1978, regardless of ownership:
         (a)   Four or more separate claim payments of more than $5,000 each
(including building and contents payments); or
         (b)   Two or more separate claim payments (building payments only)
where the total of the payments exceeds the current market value of the
property.
      (2)   In either case, two of the claim payments must have occurred within
ten years of each other. Multiple losses at the same location within ten days
of each other are counted as one loss, with the payment amounts added together.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). That portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION (includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development). The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. A legal action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid
out where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, taking place during a one-year period in
which the cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of an historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
historic structure.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP.
   UTILITIES. Include, but not limited to, electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment that service the structure and the
site.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datura (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the fioodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   X (SHADED) AND B ZONES. Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood
that are outside of the SFHA, areas subject to the 100-year flood with average
depths of less than one foot or with contributing drainage area less than 1
square mile, and areas protected by levees from the base flood.
   X (UNSHADED) AND C ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.10 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by
the City Council from available technical studies, historical information, and
other available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the City
Council which may be subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters that can
adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens
of the city.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.11 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Grayson County,
dated September 19, 2012, with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps
(FIRMS), other supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by
the city, and for those land areas acquired by the city through annexation.
This FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this
chapter and may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow
implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to the City Council by
the Floodplain Administrator and are enacted by City Council pursuant to
statutes governing land use management regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are
permanent records of the city and are on file and available for review by the
public during regular business hours at the Leitchfield City Hall.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.12 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
154.21 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.13 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the City Council from taking such lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.14 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.15 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.16 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City Council, any officer or
employee, thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.20 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council hereby appoints the Mayor and/or designee to administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter by granting or denying
development permits in accordance with its provisions, and is herein referred
to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.21 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
154.11. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of Floodplain
Administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required.
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be flood-proofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure will
meet the flood-proofing criteria in §§
154.31(B) and
154.33(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or flood proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, AH, and A
zones where the community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood
proofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.22 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Permit review.  Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this ordinance have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal or state law, including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C 1334;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner;
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
154.11, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
154.30 through
154.36. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Council for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse; and
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
154.31(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on an accurately completed and
certified elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
and substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
154.21(B);
         (b)   Certification required by §
154.31(B) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown on
an accurately completed and certified FEMA floodprooofing certificate. Verify
and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the
new and substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in
accordance with §
154.21(B);
         (c)   Certification required by §
154.31(C) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
154.34(A) (subdivision standards);
         (e)   Certification required by §
154.31(E) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
maintained;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
         (h)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this
ordinance as specified in §
154.99.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
154.40(C)(1);
         (b)   When base flood elevation data and floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
154.11, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonable
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
154.30 through
154.36;
         (c)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
154.31(B) a floodproofing certificate;
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Floodplain Administrator has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any
premises any condition or ordinance violation which makes such building,
structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Floodplain
Administrator may enter such building, structure or premises at all reasonable
times to inspect the same or perform any duty imposed upon the floodplain
administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If such structure or premises are occupied, the Floodplain
Administrator shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If such
building, structure, or premises are unoccupied, he shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of such request entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Floodplain Administrator shall have
recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Floodplain Administrator shall have first obtained a
proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no
owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any
building, structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is
made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Floodplain
Administrator for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this
chapter.
      (7)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator,
work on any building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in
writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his agent, or to
the person performing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work
may be resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or
plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator's staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his/her duties, shall
not thereby render personally liable, and is hereby relieved from all personal
liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of
any act required or permitted in the discharge of his/her duties. Any suit
brought against any officer, employee, or member because of such act performed
by him/her in the enforcement of any provision of this chapter shall be
defended by the Department of Law until the final termination of the
proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
development permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
start of construction has not occurred within 180 calendar days from the date
of its issuance.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.30 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces;
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding; and if
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures;
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter;
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.31 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
154.11, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured home) shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated
no lower than one foot above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation
perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to
facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood forces on walls shall be
provided in accordance with standards of division (C) below.
      (1)   In an AO zone, the lowest floor shall be elevated above the highest
adjacent grade to a height equal to or higher than the depth number specified
in feet on the FIRM, or elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent
grade if no depth number is specified.
      (2)   In an A zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses,
use of existing data available from other sources, approximate methods, use of
historical data, best supportable and reasonable judgment in the event no data
can be produced. The lowest floor shall be elevated no lower than one foot
above such base flood elevation. Title 401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative
Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060, Section 5(5)a, states as a part of the
technical requirements for a state floodplain permit: The applicant shall
provide cross sections for determining floodway boundaries (and thereby base
flood elevations) at any proposed construction site where FEMA maps are not
available. All cross sections shall be referenced to mean sea level and shall
have vertical error tolerances of no more than + five-tenths (0.5) foot. Cross
sections elevations shall be taken at those points which represent significant
breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic characteristics of the base
floodplain change. Each cross section shall extend across the entire base
floodplain and shall be in the number and at the locations specified by the
Cabinet. If necessary to ensure that significant flood damage will not occur,
the Cabinet may require additional cross sections or specific site elevations
which extend beyond those needed for making routine regulatory floodway
boundary calculations.
      (3)   In all other zones, elevated one foot above the base flood
elevation.
      (4)   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community building inspection
department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for nonresidential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (A) above or together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be floodproofed to an elevation one foot above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy and debris;
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division are satisfied. Such certification along with the
design and operational maintenance plans shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
      (4)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) below;
      (5)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (including basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials to an
elevation one foot above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Openings for meeting this requirement
must meet or exceed the standards of division (C) below.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction and substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings that include fully enclosed
areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the lowest floor
shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow for
the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Openings for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door), limited storage of maintenance equipment
used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door), or entry to the
living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be finished
or partitioned into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All new and substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, Al-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring.
         (a)   Locations include:
            1.   On individual lots or parcels;
            2.   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            3.   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions; or
            4.   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            5.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; and
            6.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of
a flood.
         (b)   All such manufactured homes must be:
            1.   Elevated on a permanent foundation; and
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than one foot above
the level of the base flood elevation; and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   (a)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial
damage as a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated
so that:
         (b)   The manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement,
so that either the:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than one foot above the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A,
A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must
either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured homes.
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
licensed and insured in accordance with the State of Kentucky motor vehicle
regulations, is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only
by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
154.11 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating mat encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge;
      (2)   If this division (E) is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §§
154.30 through
154.36.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.32 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
154.11, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
154.11.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.33 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
154.11 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet, where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so that
any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required as stated in §
154.31(B).
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.34 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard area and the
elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not
available, base flood elevation and floodway data for subdivision proposals and
other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and subdivisions)
greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.35 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER "A".
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated 1A the
following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation and lateral movement;
   (C)   Must be provided with flood openings in accordance with the standards
of §
154.31(C);
   (D)   Must be built of flood resistant materials to one foot above the base
flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities one foot above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Must not be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.36 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the base flood elevation at the
site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 154.40 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nature of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board. City Council shall establish
a Variance and Appeal Board consisting of the Board of Adjustments.
   (C)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board.
      (1)   The Variance and Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or
determinations made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Variance and Appeal
Board may appeal such decision to the Circuit Court, as provided in Kentucky
Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the Variance
and Appeal Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant
factors, all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
existing or proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent use;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations, which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges and
culverts.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Variance and Appeal Board may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. MINIMUM NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the City Council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in §
154.05), cause fraud or victimization of the public (as defined in §
154.05) or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (4)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
lowest floor being situated below the base flood elevation.
      (5)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) upon request.
      (6)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of division (D) above
are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected by
methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not result
in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the Leitchfield Recorder and shall be recorded
in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of
land.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance or denial, and
report such variances issued in the community's biennial report submission to
the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures (see definition in §
154.05) upon determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not
preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic structure and the
variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design
of the structure.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
§ 154.99 ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATION NOTICE AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain development permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any tune, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain development permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See division (C)
below.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain development permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
   (D)   Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with granting of a variance or special
exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined no less than $100 or imprisoned for not more
than ten days, or both, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Floodplain
Administrator from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-21-12)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ACCEPTANCES
         
II.   ANNEXATIONS
         
III.   BONDS
         
IV.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
         
V.   DEEDS AND CONVEYANCES
         
VI.   FRANCHISES
         
VII.   STREET CLOSINGS
         
VIII.   STREET NAME CHANGES
         
IX.   REPEALED ORDINANCES
         
X.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ACCEPTANCES
 
Ord. No. Date    Description
                 Accepting a certain parcel of property beginning at a point in
                 the west right-of-way of Ky. Highway 259, the point being 30
—      6-17-85 feet west of the centerline of the highway and the southeast
                 corner of the fairground property. Also, a certain tract of
                 land known as Harrison Street for access to the above parcel.
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord.  Date     Description
No.
               Annexing certain property beginning at a point, being the
               intersection of the west right-of-way line of Floyd Street; thence
—   8-18-69  north in a straight line to the north line of Kiper Subdivision and
               in the south line of J.S. Condor and continuing with north line of
               Leitchfield-Grayson County Industrial and Development Foundation,
               Inc.
—   8-20-73  Annexing the following four tracts of land.
               First tract. Beginning at the intersection of the present corporate
             limits of the city in the south right-of-way of Illinois Central
               Railroad and the north right-of-way of the old Leitchfield-Clarkson
               Road.
               Second tract. Beginning at the intersection of the present corporate
             limits of the city, in the north line of Sunset Addition and in the
               south property line of Wilbur Wortham.
               Third tract. Beginning at a point in the present corporate limits of
             the city, being in the north right-of-way of U.S. Highway #62 and
               its intersection with the extended north right-of-way of Kentucky
               Highway #1214.
               Fourth tract. Beginning at the southeast corner of property of the
             city in the proposed corporate limits of the city, northeast corner
               of Lawrence Duvall.
               Annexing certain property beginning at a pipe in the intersection of
—   5-19-80  the south line of the old Leitchfield-Elizabethtown Pike and the
               north right-of-way of the I.C.R.R.
               Annexing certain property beginning at a point at the intersection
—   2-2-81   of the east right-of-way line of Kentucky Highway 259 and the south
               right-of-way line of the Western Kentucky Parkway.
               Annexing certain property beginning at a stake in the present city
—   6-15-87  limits of the city of the south right-of-way line of Kentucky
               Highway No. 54.
               Annexing certain real property beginning at a steel pipe in the
               south right-of-way of the Old Leitchfield-Elizabethtown Pike, said
—   4-4-88   point being in the existing corporate limit line in the north line
               of Baillee Lumber property and at the east line of Tell City Chair
               Company.
               Annexing certain real property beginning at a point in the existing
               corporate limits of the city at the northwest corner of Britt
—   4-4-88   Subdivision in the line of G. Alan Bernard farm thence leaving the
               point and a new line north 3° 24 East, 359.93 feet to the southwest
               corner of Lot 21 of Walnut Hill Estates.
               Annexing certain property beginning at a point in the existing
—   7-18-88  corporate limits in the north right-of-way of Ky. U.S. Highway No.
               62 at the northeast corner of the highways' intersection with Ky.
               Highway No. 1214.
               Annexing certain property beginning at a point in the north lines of
—   9-6-88   Scenic Heights Subdivision at a distance of 452.4 feet west of Ky.
               Highway 259, a corner to the corporate limits of Leitchfield.
               Annexing certain property beginning at a point in the north right-
               of-way of the P & L Railroad, the beginning being in the existing
—   6-6-91   corporate limits of the city at a point of the eastern property line
               of the Wal-Mart property extended across Ky. U.S. Highway 62 and the
               P & L Railroad.
               Annexing certain property beginning at a point in the west right-of-
–   2-3-92   way of Taylors Fork Road; the point being approximately 700 feet
               south of the intersection of the road and Ky. Highway 1214 and also
               being in the existing eastern corporate limits of the city.
               Annexing two tracts of certain property. Tract I is in the northwest
–   8-3-92   portion of the city, at the west end of Sunset Drive. Tract II is on
               the north edge of the city beginning at an iron pipe at the
               northwest corner of lot #96 of Cave Mill Heights Subdivision.
94-4  4-18-94  Intent to annex certain property.
               Annexing a tract of land lying on the waters of Beaver Dam Creek,
94-9  7-18-94  located on the east and west sides of Ky. Highway 259 at the north
               terminus of the city's corporate limits.
95-2  2-20-95  Annexing a tract of land lying on the west side of KY 259 and on the
               southwest side of Hanging Rock Church (CR 1102).
               Annexing a certain tract of land located on both the north and south
95-8  9-5-95   sides of State Highway U.S. 62 at the west terminus of the city's
               corporate limits.
               Annexing a certain tract of land located on the north and south
96-8  7-15-96  sides of the Old Hartford Road, bounded on the north by State Hwy.
               54, and on the southeast by the CSX Railroad.
               Annexing a certain tract of land located at the southwest quadrant
96-11 11-4-96  of the western Ky. Parkway of the Leitchfield (Ky. 259) interchange
               consisting of the Paxton & Ball, Inc. property and the WK 259
               Stockyards, Inc. property.
               Annexing a certain tract of land consisting of 8.99 acres at the
97-2  2-3-97   southwest quadrant of the Western Kentucky Parkway of the
               Leitchfield (KY 259) interchange consisting of the Paxton & Ball,
               Inc. property and the WK 259 Stockyards, Inc. property.
97-3  3-3-97   Intending to annex certain unincorporated areas.
               Annexing a certain tract of land consisting of 338.26 acres at the
97-7  5-19-97  southwest corner of the Charles Harvey White tract in the east line
               of the Randall Coates tract.
97-11 7-21-97  Intending to annex certain unincorporated areas.
               Annexing a certain tract of land consisting of 1,401.28 acres on the
97-14 10-20-97 north and south sides of State Highway - U.S. 62 at the eastern
               terminus of the city's corporate limits.
2000- 10-16-00 Annexing unincorporated areas.
11
2002- 11-4-02  Expressing the intent to annex 913.461 acres on the east and west
18             sides of KY 920 adjacent to current city boundaries.
2003- 2-3-03   Annexing unincorporated areas.
2
2005-          Annexing certain property located on the south side of Hanging Rock
5     7-18-05  Church Road, approximately 1/2 mile west from its junction with KY.
               Hwy. 259.
2008-          Annexing a certain tract of land consisting of 120.072 acres
05    4-7-08   abutting the south right-of-way of KY. Hwy. 54 at the west edge of
               the city limits.
2009- 7-6-09   Annexing an unincorporated area.
05
2022- 9-6-     Annexing 7.889 acres located at 103 Blue Chip Farm Road.
05    22   
              
 
TABLE III: BOND ISSUES
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord.  Date Description
No.
      5-   Providing for the issuance of water and sewer revenue bonds in the amount
—   25-  of $600,000 for the purpose of constructing extensions and improvements to
      59   the combined and consolidated works and system.
           Providing for the authorization, issuance and sale of $860,000 of city
      10-  utilities revenue bonds, to provide funds for paying or refunding city 3¼%
—   4-65 waterworks revenue bonds, series 1955, and city water and sewer revenue
           bonds, dated June 1, 1959, and to provide for the cost of certain
           additions, extensions and improvements to the combined utilities system.
      - -  Providing for the issuance of $520,000 of city utilities revenue bonds for
—   67   the purpose of constructing extensions, improvements and additions to the
           combined and consolidated utilities system of the city.
      10-  Providing for the issuance of $625,000 of city utilities revenue bonds for
—   7-68 the purpose of constructing extensions, improvements and additions to the
           combined and consolidated utilities system of the city.
      10-  Providing for the issuance and sale of $550,000 principal amount of city
—   19-  school building revenue bonds to provide funds to finance the cost, not
      70   otherwise provided, of the construction of a new elementary school
           building.
           Authorizing and providing for the issuance of industrial building revenue
      11-  bonds of the city for the purpose of defraying the cost (to the extent not
—   2-70 otherwise provided) of a public project consisting of the acquisition and
           construction of a building and other facilities suitable for use and
           occupancy for industrial purposes.
      - -  Providing for the issuance of $500,000 of city utilities revenue bonds for
—   72   the purpose of constructing emergency improvements to the combined and
           consolidated utilities system of the city.
           Authorizing and providing for the issuance of industrial building revenue
      8-6- bonds of the city for the purpose of defraying the cost (to the extent not
—   73   otherwise provided) of a public project consisting of the acquisition and
           construction of building and other facilities suitable for use and
           occupancy for industrial purposes.
           Authorizing and providing for the issuance of industrial building revenue
      4-   bonds of the city for the purpose of defraying the cost (to the extent not
—   15-  otherwise provided) of a public project consisting of the acquisition and
      74   construction of a building and other facilities suitable for use and
           occupancy for industrial purposes.
      4-5- Providing for the issuance of $240,000 of city utilities revenue bonds for
—   76   the purpose of constructing improvements to the combined and consolidated
           utilities system of the city.
           Providing for the issuance of Industrial building revenue bonds of the city
      - -  for the purpose of defraying the cost (to the extent not otherwise
—   78   provided) of a public project consisting of the acquisition and
           construction of a building and other facilities suitable for use and
           occupancy for industrial purposes on a site acquired for said purposes.
      2-2- Providing for the issuance of $345,000 of city utilities revenue bonds, for
--    78   the purpose of constructing improvements to the combined and consolidated
           utilities system of the city.
--    4-2- Authorizing and providing for the issuance of $1,200,000 of city industrial
      79   building revenue bonds (Bel Cheese, Inc. Project).
      - -  Authorizing and providing for the issuance of city industrial building
–   80   revenue bonds (Vermont American Corporation Project) in the principal
           amount of $42,300,000.
      1-   Providing for the issuance of $2,510,000 of city utilities revenue bonds of
--    21-  1979 for the purpose of constructing improvements to the combined and
      80   consolidated utilities system of the city.
      6-   Authorizing the issuance of $400,000 principal amount of the city
--    21-  industrial building revenue bonds, series 1982 (Baill Lumber Co., Inc.
      82   Project Addition).
      9-   Authorizing the issuance of the city industrial building revenue bonds (Bel
--    17-  Cheese, Inc. Project), series 1984, in the principal amount of $600,000.
      84
           Authorizing the issuance of $2,080,000 of the city's utilities revenue
--    3-7- refunding bonds, series of 1989, to provide for the costs incident to
      89   refunding certain of the city's outstanding bonds thereby providing a
           substantial savings in interest cost to the city.
      5-   Authorizing and approving the issuance of lease revenue bonds of the
--    15-  Leitchfield Holding Corporation in connection with refinancing fire
      89   protection equipment and the issuance of bond anticipation notes.
      2-   Authorizing the issuance of combined utilities revenue refunding bonds,
--    17-  series 1993.
      93
      6-   Authorizing the issuance of up to $20,000,000 principal amount of taxable
94-5  20-  industrial building revenue bonds, Series 1994 (Modern Transmission
      94   Development Company Project)
      9-   Authorizing the issuance of $2,880,000 of the city's combined utilities
95-9  15-  system revenue bonds, Series 1995.
      95
      9-   Authorizing the issuance of an amount not to exceed $9,080,000 Kentucky
95-10 18-  League of Cities' Revenue Finance Anticipation Notes, Series 1995 (A) and
      95   City of Madisonville Series 1995 B.
      4-   Authorizing the issuance of an amount up to $5,000,000 of Industrial
99-1  19-  Building Revenue Bonds, Series 1999 (Styline Industries, Inc. Project).
      99
2004- - -  Authorizing the issuance of $1,605,000 of the city's combined utilities
9          revenue refunding bonds, Series 2004.
2011- 12-  Authorizing the issuance of Water and Sewer Revenue Bonds, Series 2012, in
13    19-  the amount of $2,710,000.
      11
2013- 3-   Authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds (aquatic center
01    18-  project), Series 2013, in the principal amount of $4,900,000.
      13
      6-   Authorizing the issuance and sale of combined utilities system refunding
2013- 17-  revenue bonds, Series 2013, in the principal amount of $2,380,000, for the
06    13   purpose of refinancing certain outstanding obligations of the utilities
           system.
2014- 7-7- Authorizing the issuance and sale of combined utilities system refunding
05    14   revenue bonds, Series 2014, for the purpose of refinancing certain
           outstanding obligations of the utilities system of the city.
2014- 8-4- Amending Ordinance 2014-05 in order to clarify the purposes for which the
07    14   debt service reserve account may be used.
2016- 5-2- Authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds (public works and
03    16   ballpark project), Series 2016A, and general obligation refunding bonds,
           Series 2016B.
2018- 10-  Authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds, Series 2018, the
23    15-  proceeds of which will be used to acquire, construct, renovate and equip a
      18   new City Hall for the city.
           Authorizing and providing for the issuance and sale of water and sewer
2019- 4-1- revenue bonds, Series 2019, for the purpose of financing the cost (not
05    19   otherwise provided) of the construction of extensions, additions and
           improvements to the existing combined and consolidated water and sewer
           system of said city.
          
 
TABLE IV: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date      Description
                   Approving an escrow agreement between the city and Citizens
—      - -       Fidelity Bank and Trust Company, Louisville, Kentucky
                   relating to the issuance and sale of $860,000 of city
                   utilities revenue bonds.
                   Authorizing the Mayor to sign a license contract, submitted
                   by the I.C. Railroad Company, granting the city the right to
—      7-6-59    encroach upon the right-of-way of the railroad in four
                   places within the city limits pursuant to the construction
                   of a sanitary sewer system.
                   Approving a contract between Alan Metcalfe and Minta
                   Metcalfe and Grayson County, first parties, and the city,
—      - -73     granting to the city the right to obtain a leasehold estate
                   in and to the property lying west of White Street and South
                   of West White Oak Street as extended, excepting therefrom a
                   lot 100 feet by 100 feet, upon which is situated a trailer.
                   Authorizing a contract of lease and rent by and between the
—      8-9-73    city and the Seng Company for an industrial building and
                   appurtenances thereto and certain machinery and equipment.
                   Authorizing the Grayson County Water District to lay its
—      9-17-73   transmission lines on, over, across and under the streets,
                   alleys and highways of the city without posting a bond for
                   the restoration of the streets, alleys and highways.
                   Authorizing a contract between the city and Grayson County
                   in which it is agreed that the city shall operate radio base
--       4-8-74    station transmission and receiving facilities on a 24-hour
                   basis and shall thereby supply radio communications services
                   to the Police Departments of the Cities of Clarkson and
                   Caneyville and the Grayson County Sheriff's Department.
                   Authorizing the execution of an interlocal cooperation
--       6-15-87   agreement to establish the Kentucky Municipal Risk
                   Management Association under which the joint and cooperative
                   program for self insurance will be organized and financed.
--       8-20-90   Authorizing participation in the Kentucky League of Cities
                   Investment Pool Plus.
                   Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-
                   insurance, insurance and the investment of public funds
                   among various cities, urban-county governments, and other
--       5-17-93   public agencies; authorizing the execution of the interlocal
                   cooperation agreement to establish the Kentucky Municipal
                   Risk Management Association; approving the articles of
                   association and bylaws of the Kentucky Municipal Risk
                   Management Association.
96-2     1-29-96   Exempting Trim Master, Inc. from city taxation as an
                   inducement to locate in the city.
                   Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-
                   insurance, insurance and the investment of public funds
                   among various cities, urban-county governments, and other
96-7     7-15-96   public agencies; authorizing the execution of the interlocal
                   cooperation agreement to establish the Kentucky Municipal
                   Risk Management Association; approving the articles of
                   association and bylaws of the Kentucky Municipal Risk
                   Management Association; and declaring an emergency.
                   Exempting Inplast Industries USA LLC, dba Plastikon, from
2014-09  10-20-14  certain municipal taxation as an inducement to locate in the
                   city.
                   Exempting Inplast Industries USA LLC, dba Plastikon, from
2015-01  3-2-15    certain municipal taxation as an inducement to locate in the
                   city.
                   Exempting North Grayson Holdings, LLC dba Site Safe, from
2015-07  8-17-15   certain municipal taxation as an inducement to locate in the
                   city.
2018-07  4-2-18  Granting Eden Fence, Inc. an inducement to promote
                   employment.
2018-15  8-8-18    Granting Eden Fence, Inc. an inducement to promote
                   employment.
2018-25  12-17-18  Granting OFS Brands, Inc. an inducement to promote
                   employment.
2018-26  12-17-18  Granting Extreme Fabrications an inducement to promote
                   employment.
2019-01  2-4-19    Amending Ordinance 2018-25 granting OFS Brands, Inc. an
                   inducement to promote employment.
2020-18  10-19-20  Amending Ordinance 2018-26 granting Xtreme Fabrication, Inc.
                   an inducement to promote employment.
                  
 
TABLE V: DEEDS AND CONVEYANCES
 
Ord. Date Description
No.
          Executing a quitclaim deed to Gulf Oil Corporation for property
          beginning at the point of intersection of the southwesterly right-of-way
Res. 5-1- line of Kelly Street (now abandoned) with the southeasterly right-of way
     72   line of Floyd Street and running with the former right-of-way line of
          Kelly Street south 44° east 181 feet to the northerly right-of-way line
          of Illinois Central Railroad.
 
TABLE VI: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date     Description
                  Granting a franchise to Kentucky Utilities Co. for the
                  construction and maintenance of a system or works for the
–      –      generation, distribution and transmission of electrical
                  energy from points either within or without the corporate
                  limits of this city.
                  Granting to TeleScripps Cable Company a license to lay and
--       4-15-85  use lines, wires, coaxial cables and appurtenances for
                  transmitting, distributing and supplying radio and television
                  antenna service to the city.
--       10-19-92 Creating a franchise to construct, erect, operate and
                  maintain a telephone and communications system.
--       11-7-92  Accepting the bid of GTE South Incorporated for telephone and
                  communications franchise.
--       4-5-93   Granting an electric franchise to the Kentucky Utilities
                  Company.
93-11    10-18-93 Regulation of rates for basic service of cable television
                  franchisee.
94-1     1-19-94  Granting an electric franchise to Warren RECC.
99-8     8-16-99  Creating and granting a non-exclusive ten (10) year cable
                  television franchise to ComCast Cable of the South.
                  Accepting the bid of USA Waste of Kentucky, LLC, Waste
2002-15  10-7-02  Transport Services, LLC, BFI Waste Services, LLC, B&J
                  Sanitation, Scott Waste Services, LLC and Rumpke of Kentucky,
                  Inc. for industrial solid waste collection and disposal.
2004-03  2-16-04  Accepting the bid of Brandenburg Telecom, LLC for a
                  telecommunications right-of-way franchise.
2004-12  10-18-04 Accepting the bid of Bluegrass Telephone Company, Inc. for a
                  telephone and communications franchise.
2005-6   9-19-05  Granting a franchise to Bluegrass Telephone Company to
                  construct, operate and maintain a cable television system.
2010-10  8-16-10  Granting a franchise to comcast of the south to construct,
                  operate, and maintain a cable television system in the city.
                  Creating a franchise for the erection, laying and maintenance
2012-09  11-19-12 of electric facilities, and providing for the sale of the
                  franchise.
2015-03  4-6-15   Creating a franchise to construct, erect, operate and
                  maintain a telephone and communications system.
2015-04  5-18-15  Accepting the bid of Windstream Communications, Inc. for a
                  telephone and communications franchise.
                  Creating a franchise for the erection, laying and maintenance
2016-12  9-19-16  of electric facilities, and providing for the sale of the
                  franchise.
2016-16  11-21-16 Granting an electric franchise for a term of 20 years to
                  Warren RECC.
2020-19  12-7-20  Granting a franchise to Comcast of the South to construct,
                  operate and maintain a cable television system in the city.
                 
 
TABLE VII: STREET CLOSINGS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date      Description
                   Closing Shain Drive from its intersection with the east
---      3-18-74   right-of-way of South English to its intersection with the
                   west right-of-way of South Main upon the petition of
                   Southgate Mall, Inc.
--       - -       Amending Ordinance passed 3-18-74 to close Shain Drive
                   deleting any reference to Southgate Mall, Inc.
                   Closing Dixie Avenue from its intersection with the east
--       4-18-77   right-of-way line of Salt River Road eastward to the east
                   property line of Vermont America Corporation.
                   Closing that portion of Florene Street from its intersection
---      5-16-77   with the east right-of-way of Floyd Street 146 [feet], 7
                   inches to a stake.
--       6-20-77   Closing Reform Street in its entirety.
                   Closing the platted public right-of-way extending
---      6-6-83    northwesterly from Brandenburg Road to the existing alley
                   known as Emery Drive.
                   Closing the platted public right-of-way extending from the
---      11-19-84  west right-of-way of Asbury Street for a distance of 150
                   feet.
                   Closing the platted public right-of-way extending north from
--       10-15-90  its intersection with Tilden Street to its terminus at St.
                   Joseph's Cemetery.
                   Closing the platted public right-of-way extending north from
---      4-15-91   its intersection with Hendricks Street and terminating at
                   its intersection with Tilden Street.
                   Closing Grayson Street between Chester Street and Hendricks
94-3     2-12-94   Street and Tilden Street west from N. Broadway to its
                   terminus.
                   Closing a portion of Holly Street from the point of its
97-1     2-3-97    intersection with the east right-of-way with Laura Avenue
                   for a distance of 100 feet to its intersection with the west
                   right-of-way of Orchard Street.
                   Closing a portion of Clinton Street from the point of its
97-10    7-7-97    intersection with the east right-of-way of Clinton Street
                   for a distance of 177.25 feet to its terminus with Lots #1
                   and #3.
                   Closing a portion of Leavette Street located on the west
                   side of Kane Avenue, being 30 feet wide and consisting of an
2000-1   1-3-00    abandoned portion of Leavette Street right-of-way created
                   with the proposed construction of a revision of Leavette
                   Street.
2006-12  7-17-06   Closing a portion of Hillview Drive abutting Lots 13 and 14
                   in Scenic Heights Subdivision.
2009-11  12-7-09   Closing a 230-foot portion of Maple Street west of its
                   intersection with Highway 259.
                   Closing a portion of West Chestnut Street extending in a
                   westerly direction for approximately 800 feet to the line of
2010-14  12-20-10  the property owned jointly by the city, Leitchfield Grayson
                   County Industrial Corporation and crossing property owned by
                   Bel Cheese USA, Inc.
                   Closing a portion of Brandenburg Road from its intersection
                   with south line of the property owned by Paducah &
2012-08  10-1-12   Louisville Railway, Inc. and extending northerly to a point
                   in the north property line of Paducah & Louisville Railway,
                   Inc.
2018-06  4-2-18  Closing a portion of a public way in the city known as Shaw
                   Station Road.
                   Closing as a public way for transportation the alleyway
2023-26  11-6-23   located between West Main Street and West Walnut Street,
                   which dissects through the property located at 32 Public
                   Square.
2024-09  3-4-24    Closing a public way known as Old Penner Drive.
2024-17  5-20-24   Closing unimproved right of ways located at 608 N. Broadway
                   Street.
                  
 
TABLE VIII: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date   Description
—      - -60  Changing the name of Downey Street, located in west Leitchfield
                to Fraim Street.
—      4-2-62 Changing the name of Water Street, which extends from Mill
                Street southward to Lake Drive to Clinton Street.
               
 
TABLE IX: REPEALED ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date     Description
--       12-16-85 Specifications for construction of city streets.
99-3     --       Requiring building permit 99-3 prior to commencment of
                  building, altering, or remodeling any structure.
2024-02  1-16-24  Adopting a program for community development.
2024-03  1-16-24  Joint Planning Commission.
                 
 
TABLE X: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date     Description
2000-3   2-29-00  Changing classification of a 7.81 acre tract of land abutting
                  the east and south side of White Street from R-2 to C-1.
2000-4   5-1-00   Changing classification of lots 36 and 37 in Meadow Brook
                  Estates from R-2 to R-4.
2000-5   6-5-00   Changing classification of 1017 Brandenburg Road from R-2 to
                  B-1.
2000-12  12-4-00  Changing classification of 210 Kane Avenue from B-2 to I-2.
2000-13  12-4-00  Changing classification of the corner of Leavette Avenue and
                  West White Oak Street from B-2 to C-1.
                  Changing classification of a 29.0917 acre tract of land at
2001-1   1-2-01   the intersection of Highway 62 (East) and the proposed bypass
                  from R-2 to C-1.
2001-2   1-2-01   Changing classification of a 5.2 acre tract of land at 400-
                  402-404 Mill Street from R-2 to B-1.
2001-3   1-2-01   Changing classification of a 5.2 acre tract of land at 406-
                  408-410 Mill Street from R-2 to R-5.
2002-1   1-7-02   Changing classification of 5.2 acres located at 206 Salt
                  River Road from R-2 to C-1.
2002-4   3-4-02   Changing classification of 3.66 acres located at 1108- 1110
                  Brandenburg Road from R-2 to C-1.
2002-7   6-10-02  Changing classification of 3.288 acres located at the corner
                  of Brandenburg Road and Holly Hill Lane from R-2 to C-1.
2002-10  7-15-02  Changing classification of property located at 207 High
                  Street from R-2 to B-1.
2002-11  8-5-02   Changing classification of property located at Sunrise Drive
                  from A to C-1.
2002-12  8-5-02   Changing classification of .62 acres located at 336 Bruce
                  Avenue from R-2 to R-5.
2002-16  11-4-02  Changing classification of property located at 1107 Floyd
                  Street from B-1 to C-1.
2002-17  11-4-02  Changing classification of .524 acres located at 1015
                  Brandenburg Road from R-2 to B-1.
2002-19  12-2-02  Changing classification of property located at 1617
                  Brandenburg Road from R-2 to C-1.
2002-20  12-2-02  Changing classification of property located at 207-B Marion
                  Street from R-1 to C-1.
2003-01  2-3-03   Changing classification of property located at 410 East Lake
                  Drive from R-2 to C-1.
                  Changing classification of various properties from C-1, to R-
2004-04  4-5-04   2, C-1 to R-5, B-2 to R-2, R-5 to R-2, B-1 to C-1 and C-1 to
                  B-1.
2004-13  12-6-04  Changing classification of property located at 315 West
                  Market Street from R-2 to B-1.
2004-14  12-6-04  Changing classification of property located at 307 Ramsey
                  Street from R-1 to R-2.
                  Changing classification of 2.55 acres located on the west
2005-9   10-17-05 side of White Street from Agriculture to Public
                  Institutional.
                  Changing classification of property located off of White
2005-10  11-7-05  Street (formerly Don Sanders Tract) from Agriculture to
                  Public Institutional.
                  Changing classification of the J.C. Lee and Sons property
2006-2   3-6-06   located at the William Thomason Byway and Grayson Springs
                  Road from R-2, R-4 and B-1 to C-1.
                  Changing classification of the Charles Lively property
2006-3   3-6-06   located off of the William Thomason Byway and Elizabethtown
                  Road from R-2 to C-1.
2006-4   4-3-06   Changing classification of the Ricky and Dedra Davis property
                  at 201 Mill Street from R-2 to B-1.
2006-5   5-1-06   Changing classification of the Dwight Embry property at 709
                  North Main Street from R-2 to B-1.
2006-6   5-1-06   Changing classification of the Dwight, Ruth and Tammy Embry
                  property on Woodlawn Avenue from R-2 to C-1.
2006-9   6-5-06   Changing classification of the Meredith Hay Mucci property
                  located at 118 West Walnut Street from R-2 to B-1.
2006-14  10-2-06  Changing classification of the Church of Joy property on the
                  south side of William Thomason Byway from R-2 to C-1.
2007-1   1-2-07   Changing classification of the J.C. Lee & Sons, Inc.,
                  property at William Thomason Byway from R-2 to C-1.
                  Changing classification of the Grayson County Foundation,
2007-2   2-5-07   Inc., property at William Thomason Byway and Bobby Bland Way
                  from A to C-1.
2007-6   9-4-07   Changing classification of the property located at 523 West
                  Main Street from R-2 to C-1.
2007-08  11-5-07  Changing classification of the property located at 602 Mill
                  Street from R-2 to C-1.
2007-09  11-5-07  Changing classification of the property located at 401 North
                  Main Street from R-2 to C-1.
                  Changing classification of the Claude VanMeter property
2007-10  12-3-07  located on the northwest corner of Salt River Road and
                  Johnson Street from R-2 to C-1.
                  Changing classification of the Deneace Clemons, Robin and
2008-02  2-8-08   Scott Clark property on the northeast corner of N. Radford
                  Way and William Thomason Byway from A to C-1.
                  Changing classification of the Michael and Dianne Popplewell
2008-03  3-3-08   property located at Lot # 17 and 18 of Fountain View Estates
                  from R-2 to C-1.
                  Changing classification of the Nathan Lowe and Charles Bahner
2008-04  3-3-08   property located at 201 and 203 West White Oak Street from R-
                  2 to B-2.
2009-01  6-1-09   Changing classification of the S & P Rentals property located
                  at 118 S. Claggett Drive from B-2 to R-5.
2009-02  6-1-09   Changing classification of the Kevin Brooks property located
                  on Quarry Road from I-2 to I-1.
                  Changing classification of a portion of the Marty & Sons
2009-06  9-8-09   Construction, Inc. property located in the Fairview
                  Subdivision (Brandenburg Road and Maple Street) from R-6 to
                  C-1.
                  Changing classification of the Southgate Mall Shopping
2009-09  10-5-09  Center, LLC property located at 627 White Street from R-2 to
                  R-5.
                  Changing classification of the properties located at the
2009-10  11-2-09  corner of Mill Street and North Main Street, 200 Mill Street,
                  and 311, 313 and 315 North Main Street, from R-2 and B-2 to
                  C-1.
2010-01  1-4-10   Changing classification of the Joyce Higdon property located
                  at 1018 Brandenburg Road from R-2 to C-1.
2010-03  4-5-10   Changing classification of the property located on Beaver Dam
                  Creek Road from R-2 to R-5.
2010-04  4-5-10   Changing classification of the property located at 1421
                  Brandenburg Road from R-2 to C-1.
2010-11  10-4-10  Changing classification of the property located at 702 Dixie
                  Avenue from R-2 to B-1.
2010-13  11-1-10  Changing classification of the property located at
                  Brandenburg Road from R-2 to P-1.
2011-01  3-7-11   Changing classification of the property located at 314 and
                  316 William Thomason Byway from R-2 to C-1.
2013-03  5-6-13   Changing the district classification of property described as
                  Lots 15, 16, and 16A Fountain View Estates from R-2 to C-1.
2015-02  4-6-15   Changing the district classification of property located at
                  717 Brandenburg Road from B-1 to C-1.
2015-09  9-25-15  Changing the district classification of property located at
                  402 West White Oak Street from B-2 to C-1.
2015-10  11-2-15  Changing the district classification of property located at
                  507 N. Main Street and 102 Marion Street from R-2 to C-1.
2016-01  2-1-16   Changing the district classification of property located at
                  300-400 Quarry Road from I-1 to C-1.
2016-04  6-6-16   Changing the district classification of property located at
                  304 N. Main Street from R-2 to C-1.
2016-07  7-5-16   Changing the district classification of property located at
                  10 Johnson Acres, located on Johnson Way, from R-2 to R-5.
2016-14  9-29-16  Changing the district classification of property located at
                  301 William Thomason Byway from P-1 to C-1.
                  Changing the district classification of property located at
2017-05  6-5-17   corner of Grayson Springs Road and Shull White Road from R-
                  1 to P-1.
2017-10  8-21-17  Changing the district classification of property located at
                  1955 Beaver Dam Road from R-1 to B-1.
                  Changing the district classification of property located on
2018-01  1-2-18   east side of Wallace Avenue (Grayson County Hospital
                  Foundation) from R-1 and P-1 to C-1.
2018-04  4-2-18   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 716 Grayson Springs Road from R-2 to B-1.
2018-08  5-7-18   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 206 Mill Street from R-2 to B-1.
                  Changing the district classification of the property located
2018-13  7-23-18  at South Radford Way and William Thomason Byway in the city
                  limits, from R-2 and P-I to C-1.
                  Changing the district classification of the property located
2018-20  9-21-18  on Johnson Way Road, Lots 22, 23, 24 and 25 of Johnson Acres
                  Subdivision from R-2 to R-5.
2018-21  9-21-18  Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 517 Lilac Road from R-2 to C-1.
                  Changing the district classification of the property located
2018-22  9-21-18  on Cassidy Lane, Lots 17 and 18 of the former Fountain View
                  Estates, from R-2 to C-1.
                  Changing the district classification of the property located
2018-24  11-5-18  at the intersection of Wallace Avenue, William Thomason Byway
                  and Bobby Bland Way (approximately 7.8 acres) from P-I to C-
                  1.
2019-16  12-2-19  Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 39 Shrewsbury Road from R-2 to C-1.
2019-17  12-2-19  Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 112 West Walnut Street from R-2 to B-1.
                  Changing the district classification of the property
2020-01  2-3-20   designated as Lots 106, 107 and 108, Cameron Drive, Tara
                  Woods Subdivision from R-4 to R-2A.
                  Changing the district classification of the property designed
2020-13  8-3-20   as Lots 1 and 2 on the northeast corner of Hardin Street and
                  Spring Street from R-1 to R-2A.
2020-14  8-3-20   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 77 Johnson Way from R-5 to R-2.
2020-17  10-5-20  Changing the district classification of property located at
                  212 South Claggett Drive from R-2 to C-1.
2021-03  4-5-21   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 206 Marion Street from R-1 to C-1.
2021-04  4-5-21   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 116 W. Lake Drive from R-2 to C-1.
2021-05  5-3-21   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 39 Shrewsbury Road from C-1 to R-2.
                  Changing the district classification of the property
2021-10  10-4-21  designated as a portion of the J.C. Lee and Sons Leitchfield
                  Farm Division that borders other property currently owned by
                  L. and R. Rentals-Grayson LLC. from R-5 to C-1.
2022-02  6-6-22   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 314 West White Oak Street from P-1 to C-1.
                  Changing the district classification of the property located
2022-08  12-5-22  on the William Thomason Byway 2,900 feet southwest of its
                  intersection with Grayson Springs Road from R-1 to C-1.
2023-05  3-6-23   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 407 and 409 Mill Street from R-1 to C-1.
2023-09  5-1-23   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 212 South Broadway Street from R-2 to C-1.
2023-13  6-5-23   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 107 Electric Avenue from R-2 to C-1.
                  Changing the district classification of the property located
2023-14  6-5-23   at the southwest intersection of Grayson Springs Road and
                  William Thomason Byway from R-2 to C-1.
                  Changing the district classification of the property located
2023-19  7-17-23  approximately 350 feet west of the Watkins Wood Drive and
                  Patty s Place intersection from R-5 to R-2.
2023-20  8-7-23   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 606 North Main Street from B-1 to C-1.
2023-22  9-5-23   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 201 Mill Street from B-1 to C-1.
2023-23  9-5-23   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 161 Hanging Rock Road from I-2 to R-2.
2023-24  10-2-23  Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 0 Central Avenue from R-2 and R-5 to R-2A.
                  Changing the district classification of the property located
2024-05  2-5-24   approximately 820 feet west of the intersection of Wallace
                  Ave. and Howard Ave from A to R-2.
2024-06  2-5-24   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 306 Marion St. from B-1 and C-1 to EX-1.
2024-08  3-4-24   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 176 W. Lake Dr. from R-2 to C-1.
2024-16  5-6-24   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 204 Kane Ave from R-5 to R-2.
2024-18  6-3-24   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at the 1000 block of Cave Mill Rd. from R-4 to R- 2A.
2024-19  6-3-24   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 305 Ragland Dr. from R-2 to B-2.
2024-23  7-1-24   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 213 N. Clinton St. from R-1 to R-2A.
2024-24  7-1-24   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at the 400 block of Lilac Rd. from R-2 to P-1.
2024-25  7-1-24   Changing the district classification of the property located
                  at 609 White St and 118 W. Lake Drive from R-2 to C-1.
                 
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section                      Code Section
Sections 163 and 164, KY. Const. 50.22
                                 31.01,
Section 228, KY. Const.          40.23, 
                                 119.04,
                                 119.44
6.955 - 6.975                    33.04
Chapter 13A                      93.02,
                                 93.05
Chapter 13B                      119.04,
                                 119.44
15.409                           34.12
18A.225(2)                       112.03
18A.228                          112.03
Chapter 31                       34.12
40.241(4)                        33.05
42.450 - 42.495                  33.04
43.050                           33.04
Chapter 45A                      34A.04,
                                 34.12
45A.050                          33.37
Chapter 56                       34A.04,
                                 34.12
Chapter 61                       32.21
61.168                           34.12
61.169                           34.12
61.805 - 61.850                  34A.09
61.805(1)                        34A.01
61.805(2)                        34A.01
61.805(3)                        34A.01
61.805(4)                        34A.01
61.805(5)                        34A.01
61.810                           34A.04
61.815                           34A.05
61.820                           34A.06
61.823                           34A.07
61.823(2) to (4)                 51.15
61.823(4)                        34A.08
61.826                           34A.08
61.840                           34A.08
61.846 - 61.848                  34A.09
61.870                           34.01
61.870(10)(a) - (f)              34.05
61.870 through 61.882            31.36
61.870 - 61.884                  34.05,
                                 34.13
61.872(1)                        34.05
61.872(2)                        34.05
61.872(3)                        34.05
61.872(4)                        34.06
61.872(5)                        34.07
61.872(6)                        34.08
61.874(1)                        34.05
61.874(4)                        34.05
61.874(5)                        34.05
61.874(6)                        34.05
61.876                           34.05
61.876(4)                        34.05
61.878                           34.01,
                                 34.12
61.878(1)                        34.12
61.878(1)(i)                     34A.04
61.880                           34.09
61.880(1)                        34.12
61.882                           34.09
61.884                           34.11
62.020                           31.01(B)
62.040                           39.03
Chapter 65                       31.02
65.003                           38A.20,
                                 62.30
65.120                           71.99
                                 40.20,
65.8801-65.8839                  40.21,
                                 40.32
65.8815(5)                       40.24
65A.030                          40.08
67.773                           111.12
68.100                           40.06
82.082                           50.22,
                                 62.30
82.083(4)(a)                     33.37
Chapter 83A                      31.20
83A.010(6)                       10.02
83A.010(8)                       10.02
83A.010(10)                      10.02
83A.010(11)                      10.02
83A.030(1)                       30.02
83A.040(1),(2),(6)               31.21
83A.040(2)(c)                    31.21
83A.040(3)                       31.21
83A.040(4)                       32.01
83A.040(5)                       32.02
83A.040(6)                       32.02
83A.040(7)                       31.21,
                                 32.02
83A.040(8)                       31.21,
                                 32.02
83A.040(9)                       31.04
83A.050                          31.20
83A.060(1)                       32.35
83A.060(2)                       32.36
83A.060(3)                       32.37
83A.060(4), (7)                  32.38
83A.060(5)                       32.40
83A.060(6)                       32.22
83A.060(8)                       32.41,
                                 32.42
83A.060(9)                       32.43
83A.060(10)                      32.44
83A.060(11)                      32.45
83A.060(12),(13)                 32.46
83A.060(14)                      32.47
83A.060(15)                      32.48
83A.065                          10.99
83A.070                          31.03
83A.075                          31.03
83A.080(1),(2),(3)               31.35
83A.080(3)                       31.04,
                                 31.21
83A.085                          31.36
83A.130                          31.21
83A.130(1)                       30.01
83A.130(10)                      31.21
83A.130(12)                      32.03
83A.130(13)                      32.03
83A.130(11)                      32.03,
                                 32.21
83A.130(2)                       30.02
83A.130(3)                       31.21
83A.130(4)                       31.21
83A.130(5)                       32.20
83A.130(6)                       32.39
83A.130(7)                       31.21
83A.130(8)                       31.21
83A.130(9)                       31.21
83A.165                          31.20
91A.010                          33.01
91A.010(8)                       10.02
91A.020                          33.02
91A.030                          33.03
91A.030(7)                       33.03
91A.040                          33.04
91A.060                          33.05
91A.200                          33.11
91A.210                          33.10
91A.220                          33.11
91A.230                          33.12
91A.240                          33.13
91A.250                          33.14
91A.260                          33.15
91A.270                          33.16
91A.280                          33.17
91A.290                          33.18
91A.350                          40.01
91A.360                          40.02
91A.360(5)                       40.08
91A.390                          40.05
91A.390(1)                       40.06,
                                 40.09
92.330                           40.06
95.760                           39.03
99.595-99.605                    35.10
                                 153.002,
                                 153.051,
                                 153.075,
                                 153.080,
                                 153.085,
Chapter 100                      153.104,
                                 153.141,
                                 153.450,
                                 153.451,
                                 153.456,
                                 153.457
100.111(20)                      153.008
100.201-100.221                  153.002
100.213                          153.458
131.010(6)                       112.04
132.285                          35.01
132.452                          35.10
Chapter 136                      117.06
151.250                          154.10
154.20-250-154.20-284            111.03
174.100                          51.15
174.100(1)                       51.16,
                                 51.17
174.100(2)                       51.17
174.100(3)                       51.18
174.100(4)                       51.19
174.100(5)                       51.20
183.020                          73.20
186.050                          73.20
186.500                          71.25
186A.145                         72.22
186A.190                         72.22
Chapter 189                      73.20
189.020                          71.27
189.080                          73.20
189.286                          73.20
189.290                          71.25
189.330(8)                       71.02
189.338                          70.16
                                 70.01,
189.378                          71.30,
                                 71.99
189.394                          71.99
189.450(5)                       72.03
189.450(6)                       72.03
189.580                          71.15
189.700                          71.40
189.725                          72.08
189.820                          73.20
189.930                          71.26
189.990(1)                       72.99
189.993(8)                       71.99
196.099                          34.01
Chapter 198B                     150.03
198B.990(1)                      150.99
218A.010                         153.008
218B                             153.008
218B.010                         122.01
218B.110                         153.008
218B.125                         153.008
219.150                          153.288
219.330-219.410                  153.133
224.20-750                       73.20
227.550                          152.01
227.555                          153.133
227.700 - 227.750                93.01,
                                 93.05
227.700                          93.01
                                 93.01,
227.702                          93.02,
                                 93.06
227.704                          93.01
227.706                          93.01
227.708                          93.01
227.710                          93.02,
                                 93.99
                                 93.01,
227.715                          93.02,
                                 93.06
227.720                          93.03,
                                 93.99
227.730                          93.04
227.750                          93.05
227.990(1)                       150.99
                                 119.04,
                                 119.09,
Ch. 241 - 244                    119.43,
                                 119.44,
                                 119.52,
                                 119.55
                                 119.02,
Ch. 241                          119.03,
                                 119.09
241.010(36)                      119.52
241.100                          119.04,
                                 119.44
241.200                          119.55
Ch. 242                          119.02,
                                 119.03
242.185(6)                       119.01,
                                 119.03
242.1244 et seq.                 119.01,
                                 119.03
                                 119.02,
                                 119.03,
Ch. 243                          119.09,
                                 119.43,
                                 119.52
                                 119.06,
                                 119.14,
243.070                          119.43,
                                 119.52,
                                 119.59
243.075                          119.43,
                                 119.59
243.260                          119.52
243.360                          119.06,
                                 119.52
243.450                          119.12,
                                 119.57
243.490                          119.12,
                                 119.57
243.490(2)                       119.57
243.500                          119.12,
                                 119.57
243.850                          119.19,
                                 119.64
243.895                          119.21
                                 119.02,
Ch. 244                          119.03,
                                 119.09
244.040                          119.46
244.090(2)                       119.46
244.130                          119.24,
                                 119.49
244.290                          119.20,
                                 119.45
257.100                          90.06
257.100(4)                       90.01
Chapter 258                      90.21
260.850                          153.008
Chapter 281                      72.21
281.920 - 281.936                72.22
281.926                          72.22
281.928                          72.22
281.928(1)                       72.22
281.932                          72.22
304.39-080                       73.20
318.990                          150.99
331.770                          152.05
359.230                          72.22
376.275(1)                       72.22
376.275(5)                       72.22
381.770                          92.01,
                                 92.04
Chapter 386                      10.02
Chapter 386A                     10.02
                                 32.43,
                                 33.04,
                                 33.14,
Chapter 424                      33.15,
                                 119.05,
                                 119.52,
                                 153.141
424.170                          119.05,
                                 119.52
424.220                          31.36,
                                 33.04
424.260                          33.37
436.600                          90.04,
                                 90.99
446.010(1)                       10.02
446.010(2)                       10.02
446.010(6)                       10.02
446.010(8)                       10.02
446.010(9)                       10.02
446.010(10)                      10.02
446.010(12)                      10.02
446.010(13)                      10.02
446.010(14)                      10.02
446.010(15)                      10.02
446.010(17)                      10.02
446.010(18)                      10.02
446.010(23)                      10.02
446.010(25)                      10.02
446.010(26)                      10.02
446.010 (27)                     10.02
446.010(28)                      10.02
446.010 (30)                     10.02
446.010(31)                      10.02
446.010 (33)                     10.02,
                                 91.01
446.010(36)                      10.02
446.010 (37)                     10.02
446.010 (39)                     10.02
446.010(43)                      10.02
446.010 (46)                     10.02
446.010(47)                      10.02
446.010 (49)                     10.02
446.010(55)                      10.02
446.020(1)                       10.03
446.020(2)                       10.03
446.030                          10.04
446.050                          10.05
446.060                          10.06
446.080(1)                       10.03
446.080(3)                       10.03
446.080(4)                       10.03
446.090                          10.07
446.100                          10.08
446.110                          10.09
446.140                          10.01
520.010                          34.01
525.130                          90.03,
                                 90.99
534.040                          10.99,
                                 113.99
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         33.03,
                     33.06
-        - -         39.70,
                     39.71
-        - -         51.45
-        - -         72.02,
                     72.15
-        - -         110.11
-        - -         115.05,
                     115.06
-        - -         116.01 -
                     116.05
-        - -         150.20,
                     150.99
-        - -         T.S.O. IV
-        - -         T.S.O. VI
-        - -         T.S.O. VII
-        5-25-59     T.S.O. III
-        7-6-59      T.S.O. IV
-        - -60       T.S.O. VIII
-        9-18-61     Ch. 75, Sch. I
-        4-2-62      T.S.O. VIII
-        11-19-62    Ch. 75, Sch. I
-        10-4-65     T.S.O. III
-        5-16-66     150.01
-        - -67       T.S.O. III
-        5-1-67      114.01,
                     114.02
-        6-17-68     110.11
-        10-7-68     T.S.O. III
-        10-7-68     63.10 -
                     63.17
-        8-18-69     T.S.O. II
-        10-19-70    T.S.O. III
-        11-2-70     T.S.O. III
-        - -72       T.S.O. III
-        5-1-72      T.S.O. V
-        - -73       T.S.O. IV
-        8-6-73      T.S.O. III
-        8-9-73      T.S.O. IV
-        8-20-73     T.S.O. II
        9-17-73     Ch. 74, Sch. I
-        9-17-73     T.S.O. IV
-        3-18-74     T.S.O. VII
-        4-8-74      T.S.O. IV
-        4-15-74     T.S.O. III
-        6-3-74      150.22
-        7-15-74     62.04
                     152.01 -
-        9-16-74     152.03,
                     152.05 -
                     152.08
                     39.01 -
                     39.06,
                     39.20 -
-        9-15-75     39.23,
                     39.35 -
                     39.59,
                     39.72 -
                     39.75
-        4-5-76      T.S.O. III
                     61.115 -
                     61.119,
-        5-17-76     62.01 -
                     62.08,
                     63.22
-        4-18-77     T.S.O. VII
-        5-2-77      63.01
-        5-16-77     T.S.O. VII
-        6-20-77     T.S.O. VII
                     37.01 -
                     37.09,
-        10-3-77     37.11 -
                     37.16,
                     72.14
-        11-7-77     Ch. 75, Sch. I
-        - -78       T.S.O. III
-        2-20-78     T.S.O. III
-        5-1-78      51.55 -
                     51.57
-        9-4-78      Ch. 75, Sch. II
-        3-19-79     63.18
-        4-2-79      T.S.O. III
                     60.01 -
                     60.04, 60.14,
-        9-17-79     61.130 -
                     61.134,
                     62.20 -
                     62.23
-        12-3-79     39.07
-        - -80       T.S.O. III
-        1-21-80     T.S.O. III
-        5-19-80     T.S.O. II
-        5-22-80     31.36
-        10-20-80    130.01
                     30.01,
                     30.02,
                     31.20 -
                     31.21,
                     31.36,
                     31.38,
-        12-15-80    32.01,
                     32.20,
                     32.21,
                     32.23,
                     32.41,
                     32.42,
                     37.03,
                     39.05
-        2-2-81      T.S.O. II
                     70.15,
                     70.18,
                     71.01,
                     71.05,
-        4-5-82      71.28,
                     72.03,
                     72.11,
                     72.13,
                     73.01,
                     73.02
-        4-19-82     113.01,
                     113.02
-        5-17-82     61.131,
                     62.20
                     38.01,
                     38.02,
-        6-21-82     38.05,
                     38.06 -
                     38.08
-        6-21-82     T.S.O. III
                     31.36,
-        10-18-82    60.04,
                     61.133,
                     62.22
-        10-25-82    130.01
-        2-7-83      31.37,
                     38.08
-        6-6-83      T.S.O. VII
                     91.01 -
-        9-19-83     91.13,
                     91.99
-        12-19-83    72.12
-        1-3-84      150.24 -
                     150.26
-        6-18-84     31.21,
                     116.02
-        9-17-84     T.S.O. III
                     36.01-
-        10-1-84     36.04,
                     92.01-
                     92.05
                     112.01,
-        11- -84     112.02-
                     112.05
-        11-19-84    T.S.O. VII
-        4-15-85     T.S.O. VI
-        6-17-85     T.S.O. I
                     35.01-
-        8-5-85      35.06,
                     35.08
-        6-15-87     T.S.O. II,
                     IV
-        4-4-88      50.06,
                     T.S.O. II
-        7-18-88     T.S.O. II
-        9-6-88      T.S.O. II
                     50.01-
-        12-19-88    50.05,
                     50.07,
                     50.08
-        1-16-89     37.17
-        3-7-89      T.S.O. III
-        5-15-89     T.S.O. III
                     90.15,
-        5-15-89     90.17 -
                     90.22
                     38.02-
-        1- -90      38.04,
                     38.08-
                     38.11
                     33.30-
                     33.34,
-        2-5-90      33.36,
                     33.37,
                     33.39-
                     33.42
-        8-20-90     T.S.O. IV
-        10-15-90    T.S.O. VII
-        12-3-90     150.23
                     61.001-
                     61.007,
                     61.035-
                     61.044,
                     61.055-
                     61.068,
-        - -91       61.080-
                     61.092,
                     61.105,
                     61.106,
                     61.145-
                     61.152,
                     61.999
-        4-15-91     T.S.O. VII
-        6-6-91      T.S.O. II
-        2-3-92      T.S.O. II
-        2-3-92      61.057
-        8-3-92      T.S.O. II
                     50.01-
-        9-21-92     50.05,
                     50.07-
                     50.09
-        10-19-92    T.S.O. VI
                     35.01-
-        10-23-92    35.06,
                     35.08
-        11-7-92     T.S.O. VI
-        1-18-93     31.21
-        2-17-93     T.S.O. III
                     63.11,
                     63.12,
-        3-15-93     63.16,
                     63.19-
                     63.21
-        4-5-93      T.S.O. VI
-        5-3-93      61.057
-        5-17-93     T.S.O. IV
                    
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Description                     Code Section
93-10    10-18-93    Ad valorem taxation             Ch. 35
93-11    10-18-93    Regulation of rates of cable    T.S.O. VI
                     television
94-1     1-19-94     Award of utility franchise to   T.S.O. VI
                     Warren RECC
94-3     2-21-94     Street closing                  T.S.O. VII
94-4     4-18-94     Annexation                      T.S.O. II
94-5     6-20-94     Industrial revenue bonds        T.S.O. III
94-6     6-20-94     Amending annual budget for FY   Not Included
                     1993-94
94-7     6-20-94     Annual budget for FY 1994-95    Not Included
94-8     6-20-94     Fire Chief compensation         37.03
94-9     7-18-94     Annexation                      T.S.O. II
94-11    10-17-94    Ethics code                     Ch. 38A
94-12    10-17-94    Adopting Code of Ordinances     Front
94-13    11-21-94    Ad valorem taxes                Ch. 35
95-1     1-16-95     Ad valorem taxes                Ch. 35
95-2     2-20-95     Annexation                      T.S.O. II
95-3     6-6-95      Adopting ordinance              Front
95-4     6-5-95      Rates and charges for solid     50.08
                     waste disposal
95-5     6-5-95      Penalties for parking           72.99
                     violations
95-6     6-19-95     Amend. Annual Budget FY 1994-95 Not Included
95-7     6-19-95     Annual Budget FY 1995-96        Not Included
95-8     9-5-95      Annexation                      T.S.O. II
95-9     9-5-95      Issuance and sale of bonds      T.S.O. III
95-10    9-18-95     Issuance of Notes               T.S.O. III
95-11    9-18-95     Ad valorem taxes                Ch. 35
95-12    11-20-95    Regulation of Halloween         Ch. 130
                     activities
95-13    12-4-95     New street construction         150.20
96-1     2-19-96     Adopting Supplement 1995 S-2    Front
96-2     3-21-96     Approving tax exemption for     T.S.O. IV
                     Manufacturing establishments
                     Prohibiting wearing hoods or    130.10-
96-3     4-14-96     masks                           130.12,
                                                     130.99
96-4     6-17-96     Amending annual budget FY 1995- Not Included
                     96
96-5     6-17-96     Adopting annual budget FY 1996- Not Included
                     97
96-6     7-15-96     Imposing bank franchise and     117.01-
                     local deposit tax               117.04
                     Approving Interlocal
96-7     7-15-96     Cooperation Agreement to        T.S.O. IV
                     establish KMRMA
96-8     8-5-96      Annexation                      T.S.O. II
96-9     9-3-96      Participation in CERS           38.12
96-10    9-3-96      Levying of ad valorem taxation  Ch. 35
96-11    11-4-96     Annexation                      T.S.O. II
97-1     2-3-97      Closing a portion of Holly      T.S.O. VII
                     Street
97-2     2-3-97      Annexing unincorporated areas   T.S.O. II
97-3     3-3-97      Annexing unincorporated areas   T.S.O. II
97-4     5-5-97      Prohibiting landfills and       50.10
                     disposal sites
                     Adopting the 1996 S-
97-5     5-19-97     3 Supplement to the Code of     Front
                     Ordinances
97-6     6-2-97      Adopting the Annual Budget for  Not Included
                     FY 1996-1997
97-7     6-2-97      Annexing unincorporated areas   T.S.O. II
97-8     6-16-97     Amending the Annual Budget for  Not Included
                     FY 1997-1998
97-9     6-16-97     Amending compensation of Fire   37.03
                     Chief
97-10    7-7-97      Closing a portion of Clinton    T.S.O. VII
                     Street
97-11    7-21-97     Annexing unincorporated areas   T.S.O. II
97-12    8-18-97     Establishing compensation of    153.054
                     Planning Commission members
                                                     35.01,
                     Setting ad valorem tax rates    35.02,
97-13    10-6-97     and amending bank franchise and 35.04 -
                     local deposit tax               35.08,
                                                     117.01 -
                                                     117.04
97-14    10-20-97    Annexing unincorporated areas   T.S.O. II
97-15    10-20-97    Amending rates and regulations  Ch. 50
                     for solid waste disposal
                     Providing for screening of
97-16    11-17-97    auto-motive, vehicle, and       Ch. 113
                     machinery junkyards
97-17    12-1-97     Regulating use of public and    61.057
                     private sewers
97-18    12-1-97     Amending compensation of City   32.01
                     Council members
97-19    12-1-97     Amending compensation of Mayor  31.21
97-20    12-15-97    Amending compensation of        153.054
                     Planning Commission members
                                                     38.05,
98-1     1-20-98     Amending personnel and pay      38.07,
                     classification plan             38.08,
                                                     38.10
98-2     3-2-98      Amending occupational license   Ch. 111
                     fees
98-3     3-2-98      Amending rates for solid waste  50.03,
                     disposal                        50.08
98-4     5-14-98     Adopting 1997 S-4 Supplement to Front
                     the City's Code of Ordinances
                     Amending private wastewater     61.020-
98-5     5-4-98      disposal                        61.027,
                                                     61.056
98-6     6-15-98     Amending annual budget FY 97-98 Not Included
98-7     6-15-98     Adopting annual budget FY 98-99 Not Included
                     Levying ad valorem taxes and    35.02,
98-8     9-21-98     amending bank franchise and     35.03,
                     local deposit tax               117.01
98-9     12-7-98     Amending Code of Ethics         38A.30
99-1     4-19-99     Issuing Industrial Building     T.S.O. III
                     Revenue Bonds
                     Adopting the 1998 S-
99-2     4-19-99     5 Supplement to Code of         Front
                     Ordinances
                     Repealing ord. requiring
                     building permit prior to
99-3     5-17-99     commencement of building,       T.S.O. IX
                     altering, or remodeling any
                     structure.
99-4     6-21-99     Amending annual budget for FY   Not Included
                     1998-1999
99-5     6-21-99     Adopting annual budget for FY   Not Included
                     1999-2000
99-6     7-19-99     Establishing the zoning code    Ch. 153
99-7     8-2-99      Amending compensation of the    37.03
                     Fire Chief
                     Creating and awarding a non-
99-8     9-16-99     exclusive cable television      T.S.O. VI
                     franchise
                     Establishing compensation of
99-9     8-16-99     members of the Board of         153.076
                     Adjustment
99-10    9-20-99     Amending compensation of        153.054
                     Planning Commission
                     Amending ad valorem and bank    35.02,
99-11    10-4-99     franchise and local taxation    117.01
                     rates
                                                     38.01,
                                                     38.05,
99-12    12-20-99    Amending the personnel and pay  38.07,
                     classification plan             38.08,
                                                     38.09,
                                                     38.10
2000-1   01-03-00    Closing a portion of Leavette   T.S.O. VII
                     Street
2000-2   01-03-00    Adopting the Kentucky Building  150.01
                     Code
2000-3   02-29-00    Amending zoning map             T.S.O. X
2000-4   05-01-00    Amending zoning map             T.S.O. X
2000-5   06-05-00    Amending zoning map             T.S.O. X
2000-6   06-19-00    Amending rates for solid waste  50.08
                     disposal
2000-7   06-19-00    Amending annual budget for FY   Not Included
                     1999-2000
2000-8   06-19-00    Adopting annual budget for FY   Not Included
                     2000-2001
                     Adopting the 1999 S-
2000-9   07-03-00    6 Supplement to the Code of     Front
                     Ordinances
                     Amending ad valorem and bank    35.02,
2000-10  10-02-00    franchise and local taxation    117.01
                     rates
2000-11  10-16-00    Annexing unincorporated areas   T.S.O. II
2000-12  12-04-00    Amending zoning map             T.S.O. X
2000-13  12-04-00    Amending zoning map             T.S.O. X
2001-1   01-02-01    Amending zoning map             T.S.O. X
2001-2   01-02-01    Amending zoning map             T.S.O. X
2001-3   01-02-01    Amending zoning map             T.S.O. X
                     Adopting the 2000 S-
2001-5   05-21-01    7 Supplement to the Code of     Front
                     Ordinances
                     Relating to procurement of      33.34,
2001-6   05-21-01    Kentucky Community Development  33.35,
                     Block Grant Funds               33.37
2001-7   06-18-01    Amending annual budget for FY   Not Included
                     2000-2001
2001-8   06-18-01    Adopting annual budget for FY   Not Included
                     2001-2002
                     Amending ad valorem and bank    35.02,
2001-9   09-17-01    franchise and local taxation    117.01
                     rates
2001-10  09-17-01    Amending compensation of the    37.03
                     Fire Chief
2002-1   1-7-02      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Establishing a franchise for    50.20 -
2002-2   2-18-02     solid waste collection          50.33,
                                                     50.99
2002-3   2-18-02     Amending the FY 2001-2002       Not Included
                     budget
2002-4   3-4-02      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Amending the personnel and pay  38.05,
2002-5   3-4-02      plan                            38.07,
                                                     38.08
                     Adopting the 2001 S-
2002-6   3-18-02     8 Supplement to the Code of     Front
                     Ordinances
2002-7   6-10-02     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2002-8   6-17-02     Amending the FY 2001-2002       Not Included
                     budget
2002-9   6-17-02     Adopting the FY 2002-2003       Not Included
                     budget
2002-10  7-15-02     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2002-11  8-5-02      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2002-12  8-5-02      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                                                     152.01 -
2002-13  8-8-02      Amending regulations regarding  152.05,
                     unsafe and unfit structures     152.07,
                                                     152.08
                     Imposing the 2002 ad valorem    35.02,
2002-14  10-7-02     property tax and levying a bank 117.01
                     franchise and local deposit tax
2002-15  10-7-02     Accepting bids on solid waste   T.S.O. VI
                     collection
2002-16  11-4-02     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2002-17  11-4-02     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2002-18  11-4-02     Expressing the intent to annex  T.S.O. II
                     some land
2002-19  12-2-02     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2002-20  12-2-02     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2003-1   2-3-03      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2003-2   2-3-03      Annexing certain property       T.S.O. II
                                                     153.129,
2003-3   4-7-03      Amending the zoning ordinance   153.135,
                                                     153.427
                     Adopting the 2003 S-
2003-4   5-5-03      9 Supplement to the Code of     Front
                     Ordinances
                     Prohibiting vehicles within     95.01,
2003-6   5-19-03     certain areas of city parks     95.02,
                                                     95.99
2003-7   6-16-03     Amending the FY 2002-2003       Not Included
                     budget
2003-8   6-16-03     Adopting the FY 2003-2004       Not Included
                     budget
                     Imposing the 2003 ad valorem    35.02,
2003-9   9-2-03      property tax and levying a bank 117.01
                     franchise and local deposit tax
2003-11  9-15-03     Off site display of vehicles by 118.01
                     dealers
                                                     50.01 -
2003-12  11-3-03     Amending solid waste provisions 50.05,
                                                     50.07 -
                                                     50.09
2003-13  11-3-03     Amending meeting times for City 32.21
                     Council
                     Establishing a fee schedule for 153.008,
2004-1   1-5-04      commercial and industrial       153.427
                     building/zoning permits
2004-2   2-16-04     Specifications for connection   61.042
                     to public sewer
2004-3   2-16-04     Accepting a franchise           T.S.O. VI
2004-4   4-5-04      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Establishing a unified utility
2004-5   6-7-04      bill and procedures to          63.23
                     disconnect for non-payment
2004-6   6-21-04     Amending the FY 2003-2004       Not Included
                     budget
2004-7   6-21-04     Adopting the FY 2004-2005       Not Included
                     budget
2004-8   6-21-04     Amending regulations of Utility 63.13
                     Commission membership
2004-9   - -         Authorizing bond issuance       T.S.O. III
                     Imposing the 2004 ad valorem    35.02,
2004-10  9-20-04     property tax and levying a bank 117.01
                     franchise and local deposit tax
                     Regulating roller skating,      73.10 -
2004-11  10-4-04     skateboarding and the like      73.12,
                                                     73.99
2004-12  10-18-04    Accepting a franchise           T.S.O. VI
2004-13  12-6-04     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2004-14  12-6-04     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Amending the organization and
2004-15  12-26-04    government to adjust the        31.21
                     Mayor's compensation
                     Amending the organization and
2004-16  12-26-04    government to adjust the City   32.01
                     Council's compensation
                                                     60.01,
                                                     60.02,
                                                     60.04,
                                                     61.130,
                     Amending utility rates, bills,  61.133,
2005-2   2-7-05      construction standards and fire 62.01,
                     protection                      62.04,
                                                     62.09,
                                                     62.21 -
                                                     62.23,
                                                     62.99
2005-3   6-20-05     Amending the FY 2005-2006       Not Included
                     budget
                     Adopting the 2005 S-10
2005-4   7-5-05      supplement to the Code of       Front
                     Ordinances
2005-5   7-18-05     Annexing certain property       T.S.O. II
2005-6   9-19-05     Granting a franchise for cable  T.S.O. VI
                     television
                     Imposing the 2005 ad valorem    35.02,
2005-7   9-19-05     property tax and levying a bank 117.01 -
                     franchise and local deposit tax 117.04
                     Holding the increase in gas
2005-8   10-3-05     prices in abeyance at the       63.19
                     recommendation of the Utility
                     Commission
2005-9   10-17-05    Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2005-10  11-7-05     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Relating to the termination of  60.04,
2006-1   1-3-06      utility services                61.133,
                                                     62.22
2006-2   3-6-06      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2006-3   3-6-06      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2006-4   4-3-06      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2006-5   5-1-06      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2006-6   5-1-06      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Amending the zoning code by
2006-7   5-1-06      establishing conditional use    153.138
                     for sexually oriented
                     businesses in I-2 district
                     Adopting the 2006 S-11
2006-8   5-15-06     supplement to the Code of       Front
                     Ordinances
2006-9   6-5-06      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2006-10  6-19-06     Adopting the FY 2006-2007       Not Included
                     budget
2006-11  6-19-06     Amending the FY 2005-2006       Not Included
                     budget
2006-12  7-17-06     Closing a portion of Hillview   T.S.O. VII
                     Drive
                     Imposing the 2006 ad valorem    35.02,
2006-13  9-18-06     property tax and levying a bank 117.01 -
                     franchise and local deposit tax 117.04
2006-14  10-2-06     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2007-1   1-2-07      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2007-2   2-5-07      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Adopting the 2007 S-12
2007-3   5-21-07     supplement to the Code of       Front
                     Ordinances
2007-4   6-18-07     Adopting the FY 2007-2008       Not Included
                     budget
2007-5   6-18-07     Amending the FY 2006-2007       Not Included
                     budget
2007-6   9-4-07      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Imposing the 2007 ad valorem    35.02,
2007-7   9-4-07      property tax and levying a bank 117.01 -
                     franchise and local deposit tax 117.04
2007-08  11-5-07     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2007-09  11-5-07     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2007-10  12-3-07     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                                                     111.01 -
2007-11  12-3-07     Occupational license fees       111.10,
                                                     111.99
2008-01  1-22-08     Amending the FY 2007-2008       Not Included
                     budget
2008-02  2-8-08      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2008-03  3-3-08      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2008-04  3-3-08      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2008-05  4-7-08      Annexing certain property       T.S.O. II
2008-06  5-5-08      Ad valorem taxation exemption   Not Included
2008-07  6-16-08     Adopting the FY 2008-2009       Not Included
                     budget
2008-08  6-16-08     Amending the FY 2007-2008       Not Included
                     budget
2008-09  8-4-08      Regulating use of public and    61.057
                     private sewers
                     Setting ad valorem tax rates    35.04 -
2008-10  9-29-08     and amending bank franchise and 35.06,
                     local deposit tax               117.01 -
                                                     117.04
2008-11  12-15-08    Establishing cross connection   62.30 -
                     prevention program              62.32
2009-01  6-1-09      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2009-02  6-1-09      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2009-03  6-15-09     Amending the FY 2008-2009       Not Included
                     budget
2009-04  6-15-09     Adopting the FY 2009-2010       Not Included
                     budget
2009-05  7-6-09      Annexing certain property       T.S.O. II
2009-06  9-8-09      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                                                     35.02,
                     Setting ad valorem tax rates    35.04 -
2009-08  9-8-09      and amending bank franchise and 35.08,
                     local deposit tax               117.01 -
                                                     117.04
2009-09  10-05-09    Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2009-10  11-2-09     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2009-11  12-7-09     Closing a portion of a public   T.S.O. VII
                     way
2009-12  12-7-09     Ad valorem taxation exemption   Not Included
2010-01  1-4-10      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Amending the occupational       111.01 -
2010-02  2-1-10      license tax                     111.11,
                                                     111.99
2010-03  4-5-10      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2010-04  4-5-10      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Establishing alcoholic beverage 119.01 -
2010-05  4-19-10     sale regulations                119.26,
                                                     119.99
2010-06  6-21-10     Amending the FY 2009-2010       Not Included
                     budget
2010-07  6-21-10     Adopting the FY 2010-2011       Not Included
                     budget
2010-08  7-6-10      Establishing a R-2A Single      153.140
                     Family High Density zone
2010-09  8-16-10     Establishment of rotating       120.01 -
                     towing services                 120.04
2010-10  8-16-10     Granting a franchise for a      T.S.O. VI
                     cable television system
2010-11  10-4-10     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                                                     35.02,
                     Setting ad valorem tax rates    35.04 -
2010-12  10-4-10     and amending bank franchise and 35.08,
                     local deposit tax               117.01 -
                                                     117.04
2010-13  11-1-10     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2010-14  12-20-10    Closing a portion of a public   T.S.O. VII
                     way
2011-01  3-7-11      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2011-02  3-7-11      Amending the FY 2010-2011       Not Included
                     budget
2011-03  5-16-11     Establishing a Tourism and      40.01 -
                     Convention Commission           40.08
                     Establishing a restaurant tax   40.09,
2011-04  6-6-11      for the Tourism and Convention  40.99
                     Commission
2011-05  6-24-11     Amending the FY 2010-2011       Not Included
                     budget
2011-06  6-24-11     Adopting the FY 2011-2012       Not Included
                     budget
                     Amending alcoholic beverage     119.01 -
2011-07  7-15-11     regulations                     119.26,
                                                     119.99
2011-08  8-15-11     Amending nuisance regulations   92.03,
                                                     92.04
2011-09  8-15-11     Amending unsafe and unfit       152.01 -
                     structures regulations          152.08
2011-10  9-6-11      Amending the FY 2011-2012       Not Included
                     budget
                                                     35.02,
                     Setting ad valorem tax rates    35.04 -
2011-11  10-3-11     and amending bank franchise and 35.08,
                     local deposit tax               117.01 -
                                                     117.04
2011-12  11-7-11     Amending Code of Ethics         38A.20,
                                                     38A.30
2011-13  12-19-11    Authorizing bond issuance       T.S.O. III
2012-01  2-20-12     Amending restaurant tax         40.09,
                                                     40.99
                                                     154.01 -
                                                     154.05,
                                                     154.10 -
                                                     154.16,
2012-03  5-21-12     Flood damage prevention         154.20 -
                     regulations                     154.22,
                                                     154.30 -
                                                     154.36,
                                                     154.40,
                                                     154.99
                                                     61.002,
                                                     61.042,
                                                     61.056,
2012-02  2-20-12     Amending sewer regulations      61.057,
                                                     61.083,
                                                     61.087,
                                                     61.089,
                                                     61.090
2012-04  5-21-12     Ad valorem tax taxation         Not Included
                     exemption
2012-05  6-18-12     Amending the FY 2011-2012       Not Included
                     budget
2012-06  6-18-12     Adopting the FY 2012-2013       Not Included
                     budget
                                                     35.02,
                     Setting ad valorem tax rates    35.04 -
2012-07  8-20-12     and amending bank franchise and 35.08,
                     local deposit tax               117.01 -
                                                     117.04
2012-08  10-1-12     Closing portion of public way   T.S.O. VII
2012-09  11-19-12    Creating an electric            T.S.O. VI
                     franchise   
2013-01  3-18-13     Issuing General Obligation      T.S.O. III
                     Bonds
2013-2   3-18-13     Procedure for issuance of tax   Not Included
                     exempt obligations
2013-3   5-6-2013    Amending the map change         T.S.O. X
2013-4   6-3-13      Amending insurance license fees 112.01 -
                                                     112.03
2013-5   6-3-13      Amending rates for solid waste  50.08
                     disposal
2013-6   6-17-13     Issuing combined Utilities      T.S.O. III
                     System Refunding Revenue Bonds
2013-7   6-17-13     Amending the FY 2012-2013       Not Included
                     budget
2013-8   6-17-13     Adopting the FY 2013-2013       Not Included
                     budget
2013-9   7-1-13      Creating the non-elected office 31.41
                     of City Finance Officer
                     Setting ad valorem tax rates    35.04 -
2013-10  9-16-13     and amending bank franchise and 35.08,
                     local deposit tax               117.01 -
                                                     117.04
                                                     119.01,
                     Amending alcoholic beverage     119.03,
2013-11  11-4-13     regulations                     119.05,
                                                     119.06,
                                                     119.09
2014-01  3-3-14      Amending Fire Department        37.05
                     regulations
2014-02  6-16-14     Amending FY 2013-2014 budget    Not Included
2014-03  6-16-14     Adopting FY 2014-2015 budget    Not Included
2014-04  6-16-14     Registration of vacant          152.20 -
                     residential properties          152.24
2014-05  7-7-14      Issuing combined Utilities      T.S.O. III
                     System Refunding Revenue Bonds
2014-06  7-21-14     Solid waste disposal            50.02
                     regulations
                     Amending Ord. 2014-40 regarding
2014-07  8-4-14      the Issuance of combined        T.S.O. III
                     Utilities System Refunding
                     Revenue Bonds
                                                     35.01,
                     Setting ad valorem tax rates    35.02,
2014-08  9-29-14     and amending bank franchise and 35.04 -
                     local deposit tax               35.08,
                                                     117.01 -
                                                     117.04
                     Authorizing exemption from
2014-09  10-20-14    municipal taxation as           T.S.O. IV
                     inducement to locate in the
                     city
2014-10  11-3-14     Amending nuisance regulations   92.03
                     Authorizing exemption from
2015-01  3-2-15      certain municipal taxation as   T.S.O. IV
                     an inducement to locate in the
                     city
2015-02  4-6-15      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2015-03  4-6-15      Creating a telephone franchise  T.S.O. VI
2014-04  5-18-15     Creating a telephone franchise  T.S.O. VI
2015-05  6-15-15     Adopting FY 2014-2015 budget    Not Included
2015-06  6-15-15     Adopting FY 2015-2016 budget    Not Included
                     Authorizing exemption from
2015-07  8-17-15     certain municipal taxation as   T.S.O. IV
                     an inducement to locate in the
                     city
                                                     35.01,
                     Setting ad valorem tax rates    35.02,
2015-08  9-25-15     and amending bank franchise and 35.04 -
                     local deposit tax               35.08,
                                                     117.01 -
                                                     117.04
2015-09  9-25-15     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2015-10  11-2-15     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2016-01  2-1-16      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Amending truck loading and
2016-02  2-15-16     unloading regulations; repeals  Not Included
                     115.01 - 115.04
2016-03  5-2-16      Issuance of general obligation  T.S.O. III
                     bonds
2016-04  6-6-16      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2016-05  6-23-16     Amending FY 2015-2016 budget    Not Included
2016-06  6-23-16     Adopting FY 2016-2017 budget    Not Included
2016-07  7-5-16      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Adopting regulations for the    119.40 -
2016-08  8-1-16      sale and manufacture of         119.66
                     alcoholic beverages
2016-10  9-19-16     Adopting public smoking         130.20 -
                     regulations                     130.25
                                                     121.01 -
                     Adopting regulations for Mobile 121.05,
2016-11  9-19-16     food vendors                    121.07 -
                                                     121.10,
                                                     121.99
2016-12  9-19-16     Creating an electric franchise  T.S.O. VI
                                                     35.01,
                     Setting ad valorem tax rates    35.02,
2016-13  9-29-16     and amending bank franchise and 35.04-
                     local deposit tax               35.08,
                                                     117.01 -
                                                     117.04
2016-14  9-29-16     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                                                     119.05,
                                                     119.06,
                                                     119.14,
                     Amending alcoholic beverages    119.16,
2016-15  9-29-16     regulations                     119.17,
                                                     119.20,
                                                     119.21,
                                                     119.24 -
                                                     119.27
2016-16  11-21-16    Granting an electric utility    T.S.O. VI
                     franchise
                     Amending alcoholic beverages    119.44,
2016-17  12-5-16     regulations                     119.52.
                                                     119.59
                     Amending alcoholic beverages    119.04,
2016-18  12-6-16     regulations                     119.05,
                                                     119.14
                                                     121.01 -
                     Amending regulations for mobile 121.05,
2017-01  2-6-17      food vendors                    121.07 -
                                                     121.10,
                                                     121.99
2017-02  2-6-17      Restaurant tax                  40.09,
                                                     40.99
2017-03  2-20-17     Amending FY 2016- 2017 budget   Not Included
2017-04  5-1-17      Tax exemption for New York      Not Included
                     Blower Company
2017-05  6-5-17      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2017-06  6-19-17     Amending FY 2016- 2017 budget   Not Included
2017-07  6-19-17     Adopting FY 2017- 2018 budget   Not Included
2017-08  6-27-17     Restaurant tax                  40.09,
                                                     40.99
2017-09  8-21-17     Quota retail drink licenses     119.28
2017-10  8-21-17     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2017-11  8-21-17     Ignition of fireworks           93.06
2017-12  8-21-17     Amending alcoholic beverage     119.40 -
                     regulations                     119.66
                                                     35.01,
                     Setting ad valorem tax rates    35.02,
2017-13  9-18-17     and amending bank franchise and 35.04 
                     local deposit tax              35.06,
                                                     117.01 -
                                                     117.05
2018-01  1-2-18      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2018-02  1-2-18      Amending FY 2017- 2018 budget   Not Included
2018-03  2-19-18     Amending FY 2017-18 budget      Not Included
2018-04  4-2-18      Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Amending B-1 Neighborhood       153.134,
2018-05  4-2-18   Business District and sign and  153.201,
                     outdoor advertising regulations 153.202
2018-06  4-2-18      Closing a portion of a public   T.S.O. VII
                     way
                     Authorizing exemption from
2018-07  4-2-18   municipal taxation as           T.S.O. IV
                     inducement to locate in the
                     city
2018-08  5-7-18   Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2018-09  5-7-18      Zoning amendment                153.008
2018-10  6-18-18     Amending Tourism and Convention 40.03
                     Commission terms
2018-11  6-25-18     Amending FY 2017-18 budget      Not Included
2018-12  6-25-18     Adopting FY 2018-19 budget      Not Included
2018-13  7-23-18     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2018-14  7-23-18     Amending FY 2018-19 budget      Not Included
                     Authorizing exemption from
2018-15  8-8-18      municipal taxation as           T.S.O. IV
                     inducement to locate in the
                     city
2018-16  9-17-18     Amending alcohol sales during   119.45
                     the hours polls are open
2018-17  9-17-18     Amending alcohol sales during   119.20
                     poll hours for   restaurants
                                                     35.01,
                     Setting ad valorem tax rates    35.02,
2018-18  9-21-18     and amending bank franchise and 35.04 -
                     local deposit tax               35.08,
                                                     117.01 -
                                                     117.05
2018-19  9-21-18     Amending FY 2018-19 budget      Not Included
2018-20  9-21-18     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2018-21  9-21-18     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2018-22  9-21-18     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
2018-23  10-15-18    Issuance of general obligation  T.S.O. III
                     bonds
2018-24  11-5-18     Amending the zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Authorizing exemption from
2018-25  12-17-18    certain municipal taxation as   T.S.O. IV
                     inducement to locate in city
                     Authorizing exemption from
2018-26  12-17-18    certain municipal taxation as   T.S.O. IV
                     inducement to locate in city
                     Authorizing exemption from
2019-01  2-4-19      certain municipal taxation as   T.S.O. IV
                     inducement to locate in city
                                                     121.01 -
                     Amending mobile food vendor     121.05,
2019-02  2-18-19     regulations                     121.07 -
                                                     121.10,
                                                     121.99
                     Amending occupational license   111.01 -
2019-03  2-18-19     requirements                    111.12,
                                                     111.99
                     Ownership responsibilities,     90.15,
2019-04  2-18-19     cats and dogs                   90.17 -
                                                     90.22
2019-05  4-1-19      Issuance of water and sewer     T.S.O. III
                     bonds
                     Amending the city nuisance      92.01 -
2019-06  4-1-19      ordinance                       92.06,
                                                     92.99
2019-07  4-1-19      Regulations regarding private   61.057
                     sewers
2019-08  5-20-19     Establishing regulations for    73.20
                     golf carts on city streets
2019-09  6-17-19     Regulations on license fee for  119.14
                     sale of alcoholic beverages
                                                     33.30 -
2019-12  8-5-19      Regulations on block grant      33.37,
                     funds                           33.39 -
                                                     33.42
                                                     35.01,
                                                     35.02,
2019-13  9-26-19     Levying ad valorem taxes        35.04 -
                                                     35.09,
                                                     117.06
                                                     31.36,
2019-14  9-26-19     Amending non-elected city       31.38,
                     offices                         39.03 -
                                                     39.05
                                                     121.01 -
                     Amending mobile food vendor     121.05,
2019-15  10-7-19     regulations                     121.07 -
                                                     121.10,
                                                     121.99
2019-16  12-2-19     Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2019-17  12-2-19     Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2020-01  2-3-20      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2020-02  2-17-20     Establishing Fire Department    37.10
                     standard operating procedures
2020-03  2-17-20     Amending compensation for the   37.03
                     Fire Chief
2020-04  2-17-20     Amending composition of Fire    37.02
                     Department
2020-05  4-20-20     Amending permit regulations for 73.20
                     golf carts
2020-06  4-20-20     Amending rates for solid waste  50.08
                     disposal
                     Amending compensation for
2020-07  5-18-20     Tourism and Convention          40.03
                     Commissioners
                     Amending compensation for
2020-08  5-18-20     members of the Board of         153.076
                     Adjustment
2020-09  6-22-20     Regulations on license fee for  119.14
                     sale of alcoholic beverages
2020-10  6-22-20     Amending FY 2019- 20 budget     Not Included
2020-11  6-22-20     Adopting FY 2020- 21 budget     Not Included
2020-12  7-6-20      Amending rates for solid waste  50.08
                     disposal
2020-13  8-3-20      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2020-14  8-3-20      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2020-15  9-21-20     Amending uniform regulations    39.22
                     for Police Department
                                                     35.01,
                     Setting ad valorem tax rates    35.02,
2020-16  9-21-20     and amending bank franchise and 35.04 -
                     local deposit tax               35.09,
                                                     117.01 -
                                                     117.06
2020-17  10-5-20     Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Amending ordinance that granted
2020-18  10-19-20    inducement to promote           T.S.O. IV
                     employment
2020-19  12-7-20     Granting a cable franchise      T.S.O. VI
                     Amending exemptions to wearing  130.11,
2020-20  12-21-20    hoods or masks in a public      130.12
                     place
2021-01  2-1-21      Amending FY 2020-21 budget      Not Included
2021-02  4-5-21      Amending definition of fire     62.01
                     protection line(s)
2021-03  4-5-21      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2021-04  4-5-21      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2021-05  5-3-21      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2021-06  6-22-21     Amending alcohol regulatory     119.14, 119.59
                     license fee
2021-07  6-22-21     Amending FY 2020-21 budget      Not Included
2021-08  6-22-21     Adopting FY 2021-22 budget      Not Included
                     Setting ad valorem tax rates    35.01, 35.02, 35.04 -
2021-09  9-20-21     and amending bank franchise and 35.09, 117.01 - 117.06
                     local deposit tax
2021-10  10-4-21     Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2021-11  11-1-21     Creating a Code Enforcement     40.20 -
                     Board                           40.38
2021-12  11-15-21    Amending penalties for animal   90.99
                     violations
                     Amending unsafe structure       152.01,
2021-13  11-15-21    regulations                     152.02,
                                                     152.04
                     Amending enforcement
2021-14  11-15-21    regulations for unsafe          152.24
                     structures
2021-15  11-15-21    Amending occupational license   111.99
                     fee regulations
2021-16  11-15-21    Amending penalties for nuisance 92.99
                     violations
2021-17  11-15-21    Amending penalties for junkyard 113.99
                     violations
2021-18  11-15-21    Amending use of dumpster        50.06
                     regulations
2021-19  11-15-21    Creating office of Code         31.42
                     Enforcement Officer
                     Adding short-term rentals to    153.008,
2021-20  12-20-21    zoning permitted uses           153.126 -
                                                     153.136
2022-01  3-21-22     Amending FY 2021-22 budget      Not Included
2022-02  6-6-22      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2022-03  6-23-22     Amending FY 2021-22 budget      Not Included
2022-04  6-23-22     Adopting FY 2022-23 budget      Not Included
2022-05  9-6-22      Annexing certain property       T.S.O. II
                                                     35.01,
                     Setting ad valorem tax rates    35.02,
2022-06  9-22-22     and amending bank franchise and 35.04 -
                     local deposit tax               35.09,
                                                     117.01 -
                                                     117.06
2022-07  10-6-22     Creating exclusive use zone      
                     classification                  153.141
2022-08  12-5-22     Amendment of zoning map      T.S.O. X
2023-01  1-17-23     Compensation of members of the  40.23
                     Code Enforcement Board
2023-02  2-20-23     Compensation of members of the  40.23
                     Code Enforcement Board
2023-03  2-20-23     Membership of the Planning      153.050
                     Commission
2023-04  3-6-23      Membership of the Board of      153.075
                     Adjustments
2023-05  3-6-23      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2023-06  4-3-23      Amending rates for solid waste  50.08
                     pick-up
2023-07  4-3-23      Amending rates for solid waste  50.05
                     pick-up
2023-08  4-17-23     Amending penalty for violating  153.999
                     planning and zoning regulations
2023-09  5-1-23      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2023-10  6-5-23      Amending FY 2022-23 budget      Not Included
2023-11  6-5-23      Amending regulatory license for 119.14
                     the sale of alcoholic beverages
2023-12  6-5-23      Adopting FY 2023-24 budget      Not Included
2023-13  6-5-23      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2023-14  6-5-23      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Establishing hearing procedures
2023-15  6-19-23     prior to appointment to a board 32.04
                     or commission
                     Creating additional
2023-16  7-3-23      requirements for holders of     153.027
                     building permits
                     Inspection, repair and
2023-17  7-3-23      maintenance of fire hydrants;   Not Included
                     repeals 37.18
2023-18  7-3-23      Inspection, repair and          63.22
                     maintenance of fire hydrants
2023-19  7-17-23     Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2023-20  8-7-23      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
                                                     35.01,
                     Setting ad valorem tax rates    35.02,
2023-21  9-5-23      and amending bank franchise and 35.04 -
                     local deposit tax               35.09,
                                                     117.01 -
                                                     117.06
2023-22  9-5-23      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2023-23  9-5-23      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2023-24  10-2-23     Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Amending personnel pay and
2023-25  10-2-23     classification plan; repealing  38.01,
                     Ord. Nos. 2003-5, 2005-1, 2016- 38.08
                     09
2023-26  11-6-23     Closing an alleyway             T.S.O. VII
2023-27  12-5-23     Compensation for members of the 63.13
                     Utility Board
2024-01  1-16-24     Declaring certain property as a Not Included
                     public way
                     Program for community
2024-02  1-16-24     development; repealing Ord.     T.S.O. IX
                     passed 3-20-61
2024-03  1-16-24     Repealing the Joint Planning    T.S.O. IX
                     Commission
2024-04  1-16-24     Amending Fire Department fees   37.17
2024-05  2-5-24      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2024-06  2-5-24      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2024-07  2-19-24     Updating the probationary       39.21
                     period for police officers
2024-08  3-4-24      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2024-09  3-4-24      Closing a public way            T.S.O. VII
2024-10  3-18-24     Prohibiting hunting on city     95.03,
                     property                        95.99
2024-11  3-18-24     Removing the position of        39.01
                     Assistant Chief of Police
2024-12  4-1-24      Amending Ord. No. 2024-06       Not Included
2024-13  4-1-24      Amending Ord. No. 2024-05       Not Included
2024-14  4-15-24     Amending building height        153.135 - 135.138
                     regulations
2024-15  5-6-24      Creating Code Enforcement       31.42
                     Officers positions
2024-16  5-6-24      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2024-17  5-20-24     Closing unimproved right of     T.S.O. VII
                     ways
2024-18  6-3-24      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2024-19  6-3-24      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2024-20  6-3-24      Amending Planning Commission    153.054
                     compensation
2024-21  6-17-24     Amending the budget for 23/24   Not Included
2024-22  6-17-24     Adopting the budget for 24/25   Not Included
2024-23  7-1-24      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2024-24  7-1-24      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
2024-25  7-1-24      Amendment of zoning map         T.S.O. X
                     Establishing property
2024-26  7-15-24     assessment and reassessment     35.10
                     moratorium program
2024-27  8-5-24      Allowing cannabis business in   122.01,
                     city limits                     122.02
2024-28  8-19-24     Amending solid waste fees to    50.08
                     include transfer stations
2024-29  9-16-24     Setting ad valorem tax rates    35.02
2024-30  12-2-24     Amending unified utility bill   63.23
                     delinquency policy
2024-31  12-16-24    Adding medical cannabis related 153.008,
                     regulations                     153.161
                                                   
 
 
