LEWISPORT, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 23-08, passed 11-16-23
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2023
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202-3909
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE #01-7
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LEWISPORT, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lewisport, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Lewisport.
   SECTION 1. That the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Lewisport, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 18th day of October, 2001.
Passed on first reading September 20, 2001
Adopted on second reading October 18, 2001
Signed by Mayor October 18, 2001
Published in paper October 25, 2001
Recorded by Clerk October 25, 2001
ATTEST:
Beth Mullins /s/    Frank Greathouse /s/
CITY CLERK         MAYOR
ORDINANCE #07-4
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LEWISPORT, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2007 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lewisport, Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality;
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky; and
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Lewisport, Kentucky.
   SECTION 1. That the 2007 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Lewisport, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   INTRODUCED AND PUBLICLY READ ON FIRST READING, this the 21st day of June,
2007.
   PUBLICLY READ, ADOPTED AND APPROVED ON SECOND READING, this the 19th day of
July, 2007.
Chad Gregory /s/  
Chad Gregory, Mayor
City of Lewisport
ATTEST:
Carrie Dixon /s/
Carrie Dixon
City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Lewisport Code, for which designation "codified ordinances" or "code" may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator's
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   BUSINESS TRUST. Includes, except when utilized in KRS Chapter 386, a
"statutory trust" as organized under KRS Chapter 386A.
(KRS 446.010(6))
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Any method of governmental, commercial, or electronic
delivery that allows a document or package to have proof of:
      (1)   Sending the document or package;
      (2)   The date the document or package was delivered or delivery was
attempted; and
      (3)   The signature of the receipt of the document or package.
(KRS 446.010(8))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Lewisport, irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Hancock County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state. (KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Councilman.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Lewisport, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL.  Any governmental, commercial, or electronic method of
delivery that allows a document or package to have:
      (1)   Its chain of custody recorded in a register to enable its location
to be tracked;
      (2)   Insurance available to cover its loss; and
      (3)   The signature of the recipient of the document or package available
to the sender.
(KRS 446.010(36))
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a "statutory reference" following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 31.10 MAYOR.
      The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised by
the Mayor.
   (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
      For powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board civil fine schedule, see §
38.12
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   CITY OFFICIALS
         
31.   CITY COUNCIL
         
32.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
         
33.   TAXATION
         
34.   CODE OF ETHICS
         
35.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
         
36.   POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
         
37.   PUBLIC RECORDS
         
38.   CODE ENFORCEMENT
CHAPTER 30: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
30.01   City Clerk
§ 30.01 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Clerk of the City of Lewisport.
   (B)   The powers and duties of this office are hereby established as those
contained or set forth in KRS 83A.085 and any other applicable statutes, those
included in the class specifications of the city's classification plan, and
related duties as requested.
   (C)   The oath of office to be executed by the City Clerk shall be that set
forth in Section 228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (D)   Before entering on the duties of this office, the City Clerk shall
execute bond, with a corporate surety authorized and qualified to become surety
on bond in this state, in the amount of $75,000.
   (E)   Compensation for this office shall be included in the budget each
year.
   (F)   The Personnel Policies and Procedures of the city shall apply to this
office.
(Ord. 6-90, passed 11-15-90)
Cross-reference:
   Personnel policies adopted by reference, see §
35.01
CHAPTER 31: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
31.01   Meetings
   
31.02   Elections
§ 31.01 MEETINGS.
   Regular meeting of the Council shall be held on the third Thursday of each
month at 7:00 p.m. at City Hall or at the City Fire House.
§ 31.02 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.050, elections for city officers shall be
nonpartisan as provided in KRS 83A.170.
   (B)   This section shall be effective upon its passage, approval, and
publication, and shall apply to the primary election of May 28, 2002, and the
general election of November 5, 2002, and thereafter until repealed or modified
by act of the General Assembly.
(Ord. 01-3, passed 5-17-01)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Investment Policy
   
32.01   General policy
   
32.02   Scope
   
32.03   Investment objectives
   
32.04   Investment authority
   
32.05   Prudent person rule
   
32.06   Authorized investments
   
32.07   Diversification of investments
   
32.08   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
32.09   Safekeeping and custody
   
32.10   Collateral
   
32.11   Investment reporting
   
32.12   Audit
   
32.13   Investment policy review; compliance with policy required
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 32.01 GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to invest public funds in a manner which
will provide the highest investment return with the maximum security of
principal while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the city and conforming
to all state statutes and city regulations governing the investment of public
funds.
   (B)   KRS 83A.060(12) and (13) allow for the enactment of this policy by
municipal order. The city's legislative body orders that the following shall be
the investment policy of the city.
(Municipal Order 94-1, passed 11-17-94)
§ 32.02 SCOPE.
   (A)   This investment policy applies to all financial assets held directly
by the city. These financial assets are accounted for in the city's annual
financial report and include all moneys in the following funds:
      General Fund
      Gas Fund
      Water Fund
      Sewer Fund
      Road Fund
      LGEA Fund
      Fire Department fund
      Heritage Festival fund
      Any new fund created by the governing body.
   (B)   Financial assets of the entity held and invested by trustees or fiscal
agents are excluded from these policies; however, such assets shall be invested
in accordance with state laws applicable to the investment of local government
funds and in accordance with the city's primary investment objectives.
(Municipal Order 94-1, passed 11-17-94)
§ 32.03 INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES.
   The city's primary investment objectives, in order of priority, are the
following:
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the city's
investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. To attain this
objective, diversification is required in order that potential losses on
individual securities do not exceed the income generated from the remainder of
the portfolio.
   (B)   Liquidity. The city's investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently
liquid to enable the city to meet all operating requirements which might be
reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Return on investment. The city's investment portfolio shall be
designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout the
budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the city's investment risk
constraints and the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio.
(Municipal Order 94-1, passed 11-17-94)
§ 32.04 INVESTMENT AUTHORITY.
   Management responsibility for the city's investment program is hereby
delegated to the Mayor and/or City Administrator. The Mayor and/or City
Administrator shall have the authority, subject to the disapproval of the
governing body, to establish additional specific written procedures for the
operation of the investment program which are consistent with this investment
policy. The procedures shall include explicit delegation of authority, if any,
to persons responsible for investment transactions. No person may engage in an
investment transaction except as provided under the terms of this policy and
the procedures established by the Mayor and/or City Administrator. The Mayor
and/or City Administrator shall be ultimately responsible for all transactions
undertaken and shall establish a system of controls to regulate the activities
of subordinate officials and employees. The controls shall be designed to
prevent and control losses of public funds arising from fraud, employee error,
misrepresentation by third parties, unanticipated changes in financial markets
or imprudent actions by officers and employees. The Mayor and/or City
Administrator shall maintain all records related to the city's investment
program.
(Municipal Order 94-1, passed 11-17-94)
§ 32.05 PRUDENT PERSON RULE.
   (A)   The actions of the Mayor and/or City Administrator in the performance
of his or her duties as manager of the city's funds shall be evaluated using
the "prudent person" standard. Investments shall be made with judgment and care
under prevailing circumstances which persons of prudence, discretion, and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment considering the probable safety of their
capital as well as the probable income to be derived.
   (B)   The Mayor and/or City Administrator acting in accordance with written
procedures and exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal
responsibility for an individual security's performance, provided that
deviations from expectations are reported in a timely fashion to the governing
body and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
(Municipal Order 94-1, passed 11-17-94)
§ 32.06 AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   The funds of the city available for investment shall be invested in
accordance with this policy and all applicable state statutes only in the
following types of investments instruments:
   (A)   Authorized investment instruments.
      (1)   Obligations of the United States and of its agencies and
instrumentalities, including obligations subject to repurchase agreements,
provided that delivery of these obligations subject to repurchase agreements is
taken either directly or through an authorized custodian.
      (2)   Obligations and contracts for future delivery or purchase of
obligations backed by the full faith and credit of the United States or a
United States government agency, including but not limited to:
         (a)   United States Treasury;
         (b)   Export-Import Bank of the United States;
         (c)   Farmers Home Administration;
         (d)   Government National Mortgage Corporation; and
         (e)   Merchant Marine bonds.
      (3)   Obligations of any corporation of the United States government,
including but not limited to:
         (a)   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation;
         (b)   Federal Farm Credit Banks;
         (c)   Bank for Cooperatives;
         (d)   Federal Intermediate Credit Bank;
         (e)   Federal Land Banks;
         (f)   Federal Home Loan Banks;
         (g)   Federal National Mortgage Association; and
         (h)   Tennessee Valley Authority.
      (4)   Certificates of deposit issued by or other interest-bearing
accounts of any bank or savings and loan institution which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or which are
collateralized, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations permitted by KRS
41.240(4).
      (5)   Uncollateralized certificates of deposit issued by any bank or
savings and loan institution rated in one of the three highest categories by a
nationally recognized rating agency.
      (6)   Bankers' acceptances for banks rated in one of the three highest
categories by a nationally recognized rating agency.
      (7)   Commercial paper rated in the highest category by a nationally
recognized rating agency.
      (8)   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky and of its agencies and instrumentalities.
      (9)   Securities issued by a state or local government, or any
instrumentality or agency thereof, in the United States, and rated in one of
the three highest categories by a nationally recognized rating agency.
      (10)   Shares of mutual funds, each of which shall have the following
characteristics:
         (a)   The mutual fund shall be an open-end diversified investment
company registered under the Federal Investment Company Act of 1940, as
amended.
         (b)   The management company of the investment company shall have been
in operation for at least five years.
         (c)   All of the securities in the mutual fund shall be eligible
investments under this section.
   (B)   Limitations on investment transactions. With regard to the investments
authorized in this section, the following limitations shall apply:
      (1)   The amount of the city's funds invested at any one time in the
categories of investments authorized in divisions (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)(7) and
(A)(9) of this section shall not exceed 20% of the total amount of funds
invested on behalf of the city.
      (2)   No investment shall be purchased for the city on a margin basis or
through the use of any similar leveraging technique.
(Municipal Order 94-1, passed 11-17-94)
§ 32.07 DIVERSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   The city recognizes that some level of risk is inherent in any
investment transaction. Losses may be incurred due to issuer default, market
price changes, or closing investments prior to maturity due to unanticipated
cash flow needs. Diversification of the city's investment portfolio by
institution, type of investment instrument, and term to maturity is the primary
method to minimize investment risk.
   (B)   To the extent possible, the city will attempt to match its investments
with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a specific cash flow
need, the city's funds should not, in general, be invested in securities
maturing more than two years from the date of purchase. However, the city may
collateralize its repurchase agreements using longer-dated investments not to
exceed five years to maturity. Reserve funds may be invested in securities
exceeding five years, if maturity of the investments are made to coincide as
nearly as practicable with the expected use of the funds.
(Municipal Order 94-1, passed 11-17-94)
§ 32.08 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor and/or City Administrator shall maintain a list of financial
institutions authorized to provide investment services to the city. In
addition, a list shall be maintained of approved security brokers/dealers
selected by creditworthiness, who maintain an office in the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.
   (B)   All financial institutions and broker/dealers who desire to provide
investment services to the city shall supply the Mayor and/or City
Administrator with information sufficient to adequately evaluate the
institution and answer any and all inquiries posed by the Mayor and/or City
Administrator or the governing body, including the following information:
      (1)   Audited financial statements.
      (2)   Regulatory reports on financial condition.
      (3)   Written memorandum of agreement for the deposit of public funds or
trading resolution, as appropriate.
      (4)   Proof of National Association of Security Dealers certification and
proof of state registration.
      (5)   Any additional information considered necessary to allow the Mayor
and/or City Administrator to evaluate the creditworthiness of the institution.
   (C)   The Mayor and/or City Administrator shall evaluate the financial
capacity and creditworthiness of financial institutions and broker/dealers
prior to the placement of the city's funds. The Mayor and/or City Administrator
shall conduct an annual review of the financial condition and registrations of
financial institutions and broker/dealers and, based on the review, make any
recommendations regarding investment policy or program changes determined to be
necessary.
(Municipal Order 94-1, passed 11-17-94)
§ 32.09 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   To protect against potential fraud and embezzlement, investment assets shall
be secured through third-party custody and safekeeping procedures. Bearer
instruments shall be held only through third-party institutions. The Mayor and/
or City Administrator and any other officers or employees of the city
authorized to engage in investment transactions shall be bonded in an amount
established by the governing body. Collateralized securities, such as
repurchase agreements shall be purchased using the delivery vs. payment
procedure. Money market mutual funds used for investments must provide for
independent custodians of their portfolios and delivery vs. payment on their
portfolio securities. The safekeeping procedures utilized in the city's
investment program shall be reviewed annually by the independent auditor.
(Municipal Order 94-1, passed 11-17-94)
§ 32.10 COLLATERAL.
   (A)   Except as set forth in division (B) of this section, it is the policy
of the city to require that all cash and investments maintained in any
financial institution named as a depository be collateralized. In order to
anticipate market changes and provide a level of security for all funds, the
collateralization level shall be 80% of the market value of principal, plus
accrued interest. Collateral shall be limited to the types of instruments
authorized as collateral for state funds in KRS 41.240. Collateral shall always
be held by an independent third-party custodian with whom the city has a
current custodial agreement. A clearly marked evidence of ownership
(safekeeping receipt) must be supplied to the city and retained by the Mayor
and/or City Administrator. The right of collateral substitution is hereby
granted.
   (B)   Subject to the following conditions, the Mayor and/or City
Administrator may invest funds in uncollateralized certificates of deposit:
      (1)   The Mayor and/or City Administrator may invest in uncollateralized
certificates of deposit only with the specific approval of the governing body.
      (2)   The uncollateralized certificates of deposit must be issued by a
bank or savings and loan institution rated in one of the three highest
categories by a nationally recognized rating agency.
      (3)   The amount of funds invested in uncollateralized certificates of
deposit shall not exceed (    %) of the city's total investment portfolio.
      (4)   The maximum term to maturity of uncollateralized certificates of
deposit shall not exceed one year.
(Municipal Order 94-1, passed 11-17-94)
§ 32.11 INVESTMENT REPORTING.
   (A)   The Mayor and/or City Administrator shall prepare and submit to the
governing body an annual report regarding the status of the city's investment
program. As to each investment, the report shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Name of financial institution from which the investment was
purchased or in which assets are deposited.
      (2)   Type of investment.
      (3)   Certificate or other reference number, if applicable.
      (4)   Percentage yield on an annualized basis.
      (5)   Purchase date, purchase price, and maturity date.
      (6)   Current market value of the investment.
   (B)   In addition, the report shall explain the total yearly investment
return and compare the return with budgetary expectations.
   (C)   The annual report shall also summarize recent market conditions,
economic developments and anticipated investment conditions, and indicate any
areas of policy concern and suggested revisions of investment strategies.
Copies of the report shall be submitted to each member of the governing body of
the city.
(Municipal Order 94-1, passed 11-17-94)
§ 32.12 AUDIT.
   In connection with the audit of city funds conducted by an independent
certified public accountant, the auditor shall conduct a review of the city's
investment program, including internal controls and procedures, and the results
of the review, including recommended changes, shall be included in the city's
audit.
(Municipal Order 94-1, passed 11-17-94)
§ 32.13 INVESTMENT POLICY REVIEW; COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY REQUIRED.
   (A)   The investment policy shall be reviewed annually and revised, as
appropriate. Any amendments to this policy must be made by order of the
governing body.
   (B)   Any investment held on the date of initial adoption of this policy
which does not meet the guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from its
provisions. At maturity or liquidation, the monies so invested, if reinvested,
shall be reinvested only in accordance with this policy. The Mayor and/or City
Administrator may take a reasonable period of time to adjust the existing
portfolio to the provisions of this policy in order to avoid the premature
liquidation of any current investment.
(Municipal Order 94-1, passed 11-17-94)
CHAPTER 33: TAXATION
Section
   
33.01   Bank franchise and local deposit tax
   
33.02   Ad valorem taxes
§ 33.01 BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX.
   (A)   Tax rate. There is hereby imposed on all financial institutions, as
defined in KRS Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city for
the 1996 tax year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of
0.025% on all deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136, maintained by such
financial institutions.
   (B)   Collection during first year. For transition purposes, the 1996 tax
year will be treated differently in terms of collection of taxes than all
subsequent years. For the 1996 tax year, the following timetable is hereby
established:
      (1)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later
than May 1, 1997.
      (2)   Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2% discount by May 31, 1997,
or without the discount by June 30, 1997.
   (C)   Collection during subsequent years. For all tax years subsequent to
the 1996 tax year, the following timetable is hereby established:
      (1)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later
than December 1 of each year.
      (2)   Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2% discount by December 31
of each year, or without the discount by January 31 of each year.
   (D)   Lien. The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property
subject to the tax imposed by this section, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
   (E)   Delinquency. All taxes due in accordance with this section which are
not paid before June 30, 1997, for tax year 1996, or which are not paid before
January 31, for all subsequent tax years, shall be deemed delinquent, and shall
be subject to a penalty of 4%, and shall bear interest at the rate of 0% per
annum.
   (F)   Tax use. All moneys collected pursuant to this sections shall be paid
into the general fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 96-7, passed - -97)
§ 33.02 AD VALOREM TAXES.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS Chapter 92, an ad valorem tax upon all real properties
subject to taxation by the city, and assessed or to be assessed for taxes for
general municipal purposes for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2023, and
ending June 30, 2024, be and is hereby levied and fixed at the rate of $.198 on
each $100 of assessed valuation on property listed and equalized for taxation.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS Chapter 92 an ad valorem tax upon all tangible
properties subject to taxation by the City of Lewisport, and assessed or to be
assessed for taxes for general municipal purposes for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2023 and ending June 30, 2024, be and is hereby levied and fixed at the
rate of .1980 cents on each $100 of assessed valuation on property listed and
equalized for taxation.
   (C)   The foregoing ad valorem taxes are levied for the fiscal year on each
$100 of assessed value of all lands, improvements, personal property in the
city held or owned by every person, firm, company or corporation, in his, her,
their or its right, or as fiduciary, guardian, trustee or agent, subject to
municipal taxation under the laws of the State of Kentucky Revised Statutes and
under all amendments thereto, including all property, franchise and privilege,
heretofore or thereafter assessed for taxation by the County Property Valuation
Administrator, the State of Kentucky Tax Commission and other assessing bodies,
for taxation.
   (D)   All of the taxes hereby levied shall be due and payable on December
31, 2023.
   (E)   All taxes paid on or before November 30, 2023, shall be discountable
at 2%. Taxes paid after December 31, 2023, but on or before January 31, 2024,
shall bear a penalty of 2%. Taxes paid on or after February 1, 2024, shall bear
a penalty of 6% until paid or until property of the delinquent has been sold
for taxes. All accrued penalties shall be added to all delinquent taxes and be
collected from the taxpayer when the taxes are paid.
   (F)   All funds and monies due to or received by the city during said fiscal
year, shall be paid into the General Fund of the city, and all funds spent or
expended by the city which are not specifically directed to be paid out of any
special fund, or assessment shall be paid out of the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 99-7, passed 9-16-99; Am. Ord. 00-5, passed 9-21-00; Am. Ord. 01-5,
passed 9-20-01; Am. Ord. 02-6, passed 10-17-02; Am. Ord. 03-4, passed 10-16-03;
Am. Ord. 04-3, passed 10-21-04; Am. Ord. 05-3, passed 11-16-05; Am. Ord. 06-4,
passed 10-24-06; Am. Ord. 07-5, passed 10-18-07; Am. Ord. 08-7, passed 9-18-08;
Am. Ord. 09-6, passed 9-17-09; Am. Ord. 10-6, passed 10-21-10; Am. Ord. 11-4,
passed 10-20- 11; Am. Ord. 12-3, passed 10-18-12; Am. Ord. 13-4, passed 10-17-
13; Am. Ord. 14-10. passed 10-16-14; Am. Ord. 15-5, passed 10-15-15; Am. Ord.
16-4, passed 10-18-16; Am. Ord. 17-6, passed 10-19-17; Am. Ord. 18-3, passed
10-25-18; Am. Ord. 19-5, passed 10-17-19; Am. Ord. 20-5, passed 10-15-20; Am.
Ord. 21-6, passed 10-21-21; Am. Ord. 22-04, passed 10-20-22; Am. Ord. 23-07,
passed 10-19-23)
CHAPTER 34: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Title
   
34.02   Findings
   
34.03   Purpose and authority
   
34.04   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
34.15   Conflicts of interest in general
   
34.16   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
34.17   Receipt of gifts
   
34.18   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
34.19   Post-employment restriction
   
34.20   Honoraria
   
34.21   Nepotism
Financial Disclosure
   
34.30   Persons required to file
   
34.31   When statements to be filed; amended statements
   
34.32   Form of statement of financial interests
   
34.33   Control and maintenance of statements of financial interests
   
34.34   Contents of financial interests statement
   
34.35   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Enforcement
   
34.45   Board of Ethics created
   
34.46   Powers and duties
   
34.47   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
34.48   Action by Board
   
34.49   Appeals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the City of Lewisport Code
of Ethics.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.02 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that: Public office and
employment are a public trust and government has a duty both to provide their
citizens with standards by which they may determine whether public duties are
being faithfully performed, and to apprise their officers and employees of the
behavior which is expected of them while conducting their public duties.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.03 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
applications and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS Chapter 65, as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS Chapter 65.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.
      (1)   Any corporation,
      (2)   Partnership,
      (3)   Sole proprietorship,
      (4)   Firm,
      (5)   Enterprise,
      (6)   Franchise,
      (7)   Association,
      (8)   Organization,
      (9)   Self-employed individual,
      (10)   Holding company,
      (11)   Joint stock company,
      (12)   Receivership,
      (13)   Trust,
      (14)   Professional service corporation, or
      (15)   Any legal entity through which business is conducted for profit.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The City of Lewisport Board of Ethics which is created and
vested by this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of
the city's code of ethics.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a candidate when:
      (1)   They file a notification and declaration for nomination for office
with the County Clerk or Secretary of State, or they are nominated for office
by a political party, or they file a declaration of intent to be a write-in
candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of State.
      (2)   They are nominated for office by a political party, or
      (3)   They file a declaration of intent to be a write-in candidate with
the County Clerk or Secretary of State.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
public official's or employee's household, or a person claimed by the officer
or employee or the officer's or employee's spouse, as a dependent for tax-
purposes.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether
paid or unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor.
      (2)   A legislative body member.
      (3)   The City Clerk.
      (4)   The City Administrator.
      (5)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080.
      (6)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 34.15 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every public official and employee of the city and every city agency shall
comply with the following standards of conduct:
   (A)   No public official or employee, or any immediate family member of any
public official or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in
any business, transaction, or activity, which is in substantial conflict with
the proper discharge of the public official's or employee's public duties.
   (B)   No public official or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to
use their official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for themselves or others.
   (C)   No public official or employee shall act in their official capacity in
any matter:
      (1)   Where they stand to gain financially, or
      (2)   That may reasonably impair their objectivity or judgement.
   (D)   No public official or employee who may have or enter into private
employment shall solicit, promote, or encourage themselves while performing
official duties.
   (E)   No public official or employee shall be prohibited from:
      (1)   Giving or receiving an award publicly presented in recognition of
public service, or
      (2)   Receiving normal travel expenses, meals, and refreshments furnished
in conjunction with public events, appearances, ceremonies or fact finding
trips related to official city business.
   (F)   No public official or employee shall use or allow to be used any
information, not generally available to members of the general public, which
they have received or acquired in the course of their official capacity, to
gain financially or otherwise for themselves or others.
   (G)   No public official or employee shall represent any person or party
other than the city in connection with any cause, proceeding, application or
other matter pending before any agency in the city.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.16 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No public official or employee of the city or any city agency shall
directly or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in
part, any contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a
city agency, except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply to
contracts entered into before an elected public official filed as a candidate
for city office, before an appointed public official was a p pointed to a city
or city agency office, or before an employee was hired by the city or a city
agency. However, if any contract entered into by a city or city agency public
official or employee before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to
office, or was hired as an employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a
candidate, assumes the appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the
prohibition in division (A) of this section shall apply to the renewal of the
contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply if
the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
public official or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the
contract specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract
performance after the contract is awarded. The public official or employee
shall have no interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in
division (3) below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply in
any case where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the public official's or employee's interest in the contract are publicly
disclosed at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the public official or employee is in the best
interests of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited
supply, or other specific reasons.
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and chapters, rules or regulations of the
city.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.17 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No public official or employee of the city or any city agency shall
directly, or indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept
any gift having a fair market value of more than $250, whether in the form of
money, service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or
any other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred
that the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the public official or employee in the performance of his or her
public duties.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.18 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No public official or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of
any city time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property
for the private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy.
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.19 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No public official or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear
or practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on
which the public official or employee personally worked while in the service of
the city or city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the
public official's or employee's service with the city or city agency.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.20 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No public official or employee of the city or a city agency shall
accept any compensation, honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater
than $100 in consideration of an appearance, speech or article unless the
appearance, speech or article is both related to the public official's or
employee's activities outside of municipal service and is unrelated to the
public official's or employee's service with the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a public official or employee
of the city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on
behalf of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
public official or employee in connection with an appearance, speech or
article, provided that the public official or employee can show by clear and
convincing evidence that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of
the city or city agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city
agency and not primarily for the benefit of the public official or employee or
any other person.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.21 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   No public official or employee of the city or a city agency shall
advocate, recommend or cause the:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement
of an immediate family member to an office or position of employment with the
city or a city agency.
   (B)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
January 1, 1995.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 34.30 PERSONS REQUIRED TO FILE.
   The following classes of public officials of the city and city agencies
shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials.
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office.
   (C)   City Administrator.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.31 WHEN STATEMENTS TO BE FILES; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests required by this section shall be
filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated as
the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later than 4:00 p.m. on
April 15 each year, provided that:
      (1)   A newly appointed public official (identified in §
34.30) shall file their initial statement no later than 30 days after the date
of the appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file their initial statement no
later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate for
elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.32 FORM OF STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each public official (identified in §
34.30) required to file the statement, by first class mail or hand delivery, no
later than April 1 of each year. The failure of the Board, or the designated
administrative official, to deliver a copy of the form to any public official
(identified in §
34.30) shall not relieve the public official (identified in §
34.30) of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.33 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the official custodian of the statements
of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated
by the Board of Ethics as the custodian, as public documents, available for
public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five years after
filing, provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be a
public official (identified in §
34.30) of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to be destroyed any
statements of financial interests or copies of those statements filed by the
person.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.34 CONTENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer.
      (2)   The title of the filer's office, office sought, or position of
employment.
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer's spouse.
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer's immediate family members that exceeds $20,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, etc.).
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $20,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more.
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer's
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more.
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer's primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more.
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $250 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer's immediate family during the preceding calendar year when it pertains to
city business.
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000 Except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for person, family or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any public
official or employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of
individual clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.35 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and,
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
division (A) above within the time period established in the notice shall be
guilty of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board in an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine
of $500. Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
fails or refuses to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests,
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 34.45 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   The City Ethics Board shall consist of five citizen members. Members
shall receive no compensation, but they may be reimbursed all necessary
expenses. The terms of the members shall be four years. Members shall be
appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval by the City Council. A Chairman
will be chosen by the members.
      (1)   All appointments shall be made no later than 60 days after the
adoption of this chapter.
      (2)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by
the Mayor.
   (B)   The Board shall meet at least once a year. This annual meeting shall
be held within two weeks after the financial disclosure filing deadline to
review all statements for compliance. Other meetings will be held when
determined necessary by the Board or when requested by any person as outlined
in the complaint procedure below.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.46 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board shall have jurisdiction over the administration of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board may receive complaints; initiate investigations on its own
motion; and conduct investigations, inquiries, and hearings concerning any
matter covered by this chapter.
   (C)   The Board may render advisory opinions whether or not a given set of
facts and circumstances constitute a violation of any provision of this
chapter.
   (D)   The Board shall prescribe and provide forms for reports, statements,
notices, and other documents required by this code.
   (E)   The Board shall determine whether the required statements and reports
have been filed and, if filed, whether they conform with the requirements of
this code. The Board shall promptly give notice to the filer to correct or
explain any omission or deficiency.
   (F)   The Board may retain private counsel at the expense of the city if the
City Attorney has an actual potential conflict. Any counsel must be pre-
approved by the city.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.47 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Upon written complaint, signed under penalty of perjury by any person,
or upon its own motion, the Board shall investigate any alleged violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall initiate a preliminary inquiry into any alleged
violation of this chapter no later than ten days after receiving the complaint.
   (C)   The Board shall forward a copy of the complaint and a general
statement of the applicable law to the person alleged to have committed a
violation within 30 days of the commencement of the inquiry.
   (D)   All board proceedings and records relating to a preliminary
investigation shall be confidential until a final determination is made by the
Board, unless the evidence may be used in a criminal proceeding. Evidence would
be turned over to the Commonwealth or County Attorney.
   (E)   The complainant or alleged violator shall not publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary investigation, and the Board shall not publicly
confirm the existence of the inquiry nor make public any documents, which were
issued to either party.
   (F)   The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of a preliminary
investigation an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint.
The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations in the complaint.
   (G)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board of Ethics a false
complaint of misconduct on the part of any elected or appointed official or
other person shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.48 ACTION BY BOARD.
   If the Board concludes that violation of the chapter has occurred, they may:
   (A)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation.
   (B)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
of the city or city agency with which the violator serves.
   (C)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body that violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include
a recommendation for discipline or dismissal.
   (D)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000.
   (E)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws to
the County Attorney or Commonwealth's Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
§ 34.49 APPEALS.
   Any person found by the Board to have committed a violation of this chapter
may appeal the action to the Hancock County Circuit Court. The appeal shall be
initiated within 30 days after the date of the final action of the Commission
by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall transmit
to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the Board at the public
hearing. The court shall hear the appeal upon the record as certified by the
Board.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 3-2-95)
CHAPTER 35: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Personnel Policies and Procedures adopted by reference
§ 35.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Personnel Policies and Procedures adopted by the city by Ordinance 96-
13, passed 2-20-97, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code
the same as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 96-13, passed 2-20-97; Am. Res. 04-16-2009-2, passed 4-16-09; Am. Res.
02-16-12, passed 2-16-12; Am. Res. 06-21-12, passed 6-21-12; Am. Res. 08-22-13,
passed 8-22-13)
CHAPTER 36: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
Police Department
   
36.01   Established
   
36.02   Positions
Volunteer Fire Department
   
36.15   Tobacco-free policy
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.01 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created an organized police force for the city, which shall
be known as the "Lewisport Police Department".
(Ord. 99-10, passed 10-21-99)
§ 36.02 POSITIONS.
   There is hereby created the position of Police Chief and position(s) of
Police Officer(s).
(Ord. 99-10, passed 10-21-99)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.15 TOBACCO-FREE POLICY.
   (A)   To protect and enhance indoor air quality and to contribute to the
health and well-being of all employees, the Lewisport Volunteer Fire Department
shall be entirely smoke free effective June 1, 2013. Additionally, effective
June 1, 2013, the use of all tobacco products, including chewing tobacco, is
banned from the Lewisport Volunteer Fire Department, except as designated in
this policy. This policy includes, but is not limited to: electronic-
cigarettes, snuff, cigars, cigarettes, dip, pipes, snus, pouches, plugs, and
the like.
   (B)   Smoking is prohibited in all of the enclosed areas within the
facility, without exception. This includes common work areas, kitchen,
conference and meeting rooms, private offices, hallways, restrooms, employer
owned or leased vehicles, and all other enclosed facilities.
   (C)   The only designated smoking area is outdoors, in the rear of the
building. No one may smoke along any path way or walk way leading to or from
the designated smoking area.
   (D)   Additionally, employees may smoke in their personal vehicles, but the
smoke and tobacco products must be completely contained within the vehicle. It
is not acceptable that either smoking or non-smoking employees are subjected to
smoke that they must walk through to reach their vehicle or any other
destination on the facility premises.
   (E)   While Lewisport Volunteer Fire Department makes these areas available
to smokers, it in no way has any legal responsibility to do so. Employees who
choose to use these smoking areas do so at their own risk. Finally, smokers and
users of tobacco products must dispose of the remains in the proper containers.
This helps to keep a neat and clean environment for all employees and visiting
partners and customers.
   (F)   Failure to comply with all of the components of this policy will
result in disciplinary action that can lead up to and include dismissal from
the Lewisport Volunteer Fire Department.
(Res. 04-18-13, passed 4-18-13)
CHAPTER 37: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
   
37.01   Rules governing inspection of public records
§ 37.01 RULES GOVERNING INSPECTION OF PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 61.870 to 61.884, the public is notified that, as
provided herein, the public records of the city are open for inspection by any
person on written application to the City Clerk, whose address is 405 Second
Street, Lewisport, Kentucky 42351, from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through
Friday, each week, except holidays. Application forms for the inspection of
public records of this agency will be furnished, on request, to any person by
an employee in this office. Assistance in completing the application form will
be provided by an employee on request.
   (B)   Applicants for the inspection of public records shall be advised of
the availability of the records requested for inspection, and shall be notified
in writing not later than three working days after receipt of an application
for inspection of any reason the records requested are not available for public
inspection.
   (C)   Copies of written material in the public records of this agency shall
be furnished to any person requesting them for a non-commercial purpose, on
payment of a fee of $0.10 per page; copies of nonwritten records (photographs,
maps, material stored in computer files or libraries, and the like) shall be
furnished on request, on payment of a charge equal to the actual cost of
producing copies of such records by the most economic process not likely to
damage or alter the record.
   (D)   Applicants requesting copies of public records for a commercial
purpose (KRS 61.874) shall provide a certified statement to the city stating
the commercial purpose for which the records shall be used, and shall be
required to enter into a contract with the city. The contract shall state the
fee required by the city to produce copies of the commercial purpose record.
(Res. 05-16-13A, passed 5-16-13)
CHAPTER 38: CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
Section
   
38.01   Definitions
   
38.02   Creation and membership
   
38.03   Enforcement powers
   
38.04   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation
   
38.05   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum
   
38.06   Conflict of interest
   
38.07   Powers of the Board
   
38.08   Enforcement proceedings
   
38.09   Hearing; notice; final order
   
38.10   Presentation of cases
   
38.11   Appeals; final judgment
   
38.12   Ordinance fine schedule
   
38.13   Lien; fines, charges and fees
   
38.14   Lienholder notification system
   
38.15   Liens
   
38.16   Immediate action
§ 38.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A city’s necessary and reasonable costs for and associated
with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all or a
portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to a
structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with §
38.09(E) of this chapter;
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in §
38.08(F) of this chapter; or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
38.09(C) of this chapter.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
Ord. 23-03, passed 6-15-23)
§ 38.02 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created within the city pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS
65.8839, a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of three members, all
of whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at least one year prior
to their appointment and shall reside there throughout the term in office.
(Ord. 23-03, passed 6-15-23)
§ 38.03 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 23-03, passed 6-15-23)
§ 38.04 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the
executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of the legislative
body.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of one year;
      (2)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of two years; and
      (3)   One-third of the membership or one-third of the membership and one
member of the Board shall be appointed for a term of three years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (D)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the executive authority,
subject to approval of the legislative body, within 60 days of the vacancy. If
the vacancy is not filled within that time period, the remaining Code
Enforcement Board members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be filled for
the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   A Board member may be removed from office by the executive authority
for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The executive
authority shall submit a written statement to the member and the legislative
body setting forth the reasons for removal. The member so removed shall have
the right of appeal to the Circuit Court.
   (F)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (G)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reimbursed for actual
expenses.
   (H)   No member of the code enforcement board shall hold any elected or
nonelected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 23-03, passed 6-15-23)
§ 38.05 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a Chair from among its
members. The Chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of
the Board. In the absence of the Chair, the remaining members of the Board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
Chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held on the
second Thursday of every other month. Meetings other than those regularly
scheduled shall be special meetings or emergency meetings held in accordance
with the requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the Board’s entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of
the Board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of any member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 23-03, passed 6-15-23; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 10-19-23)
§ 38.06 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, shall disqualify himself or herself from voting on the
matter in which he or she has an interest, and shall not be counted for
purposes of establishing a quorum.
(Ord. 23-03, passed 6-15-23)
§ 38.07 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any code
enforcement officer.
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The Chair shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce.
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 23-03, passed 6-15-23)
§ 38.08 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a code enforcement officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to §
38.16 of this chapter, if a code enforcement officer believes, based on his or
her personal observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city
ordinance, he or she shall issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged
violator a specified period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a
fine. If the alleged violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within
the time specified, the code enforcement officer is authorized to issue a
citation.
   (C)   The code enforcement officer shall issue a citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the code enforcement officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable:
         (a)   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation; and
         (b)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects
to contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
         (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation; the determination that the violation
was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the code enforcement
officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
the chairperson of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the
person fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation
as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was
committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first- class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 23-03, passed 6-15-23)
§ 38.09 HEARING; NOTICE; AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the code enforcement officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the code enforcement
officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it is determined that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is
determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued upholding the
citation. The Board may impose a fine up to the maximum authorized by
ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date
the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the person by regular first-
class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by
leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the notice.
(Ord. 23-03, passed 6-15-23)
§ 38.10 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city, a code enforcement officer for the city, or by a
member of the city’s administrative staff. The City Attorney may either be
counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may present cases before the Code
Enforcement Board, but shall in no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 23-03, passed 6-15-23)
§ 38.11 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board following a
hearing conducted pursuant to §
38.09(E) of this chapter may be made to the Hancock County District Court
within 30 days of the date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated
by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner
as any civil action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) of this section, the Code
Enforcement Board's order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 23-03, passed 6-15-23)
§ 38.12 ORDINANCE FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the Code Enforcement Board
shall be subject to the following schedule of civil fines:
   (A)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth in this division
shall apply:
 
Violation                                1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Unfit/Unsafe Structure                   $200        $300        $400
Garbage/Rubbish                          $200        $300        $400
Weeds/Grass                              $150        $300        $400
Junked, Wrecked or Inoperative Vehicle,  $200        $300        $400
Machine, Scrap or Salvage
Junked, Wrecked or Inoperative Mobile or $250        $400        $600
Manufactured Home
 
   (B)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the following maximum penalties may be imposed at the
discretion of the Code Enforcement Board:
 
Violation                                1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Unfit/Unsafe Structure                   $400        $800        $1,200
Garbage/Rubbish                          $400        $600        $700
Weeds/Grass                              $300        $600        $950
Junked, Wrecked or Inoperative Vehicle,  $400        $600        $700
Machine, Scrap or Salvage
Junked, Wrecked or Inoperative Mobile or $400        $800        $1,200
Manufactured Home
 
(Ord. 23-03, passed 6-15-23)
§ 38.13 LIEN; FINES, CHARGES, AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a nonappealable final order as defined by §
38.01 of this chapter or by a final judgment of the court, to have committed a
violation of a city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed
for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in
connection with the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs. An
affidavit of the code enforcement officer shall constitute prima facie evidence
of the amount of the lien and regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS
65.8801 to 65.8839.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years following the date
of the nonappealable final order or final court judgment.
   (C)   Subject to §
38.15 of this chapter, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens,
except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by
judicial proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) of this section,
the person found to have committed the violation shall be personally
responsible for the amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and
for all charges, fees and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection
with the enforcement of the ordinance. The city may bring a civil action
against the person and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 23-03, passed 6-15-23)
§ 38.14 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in §
38.13 of this chapter, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the City Clerk:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   A registrant may use the electronic form provided on the city website
to submit the information required by division (B) of this section. It shall be
the responsibility of the registrant to maintain and update the required
contact information with the city. The city shall inform a registrant of any
evidence received that the electronic mailing address is invalid or not
functional so that the registrant may provide an updated electronic mailing
address.
   (D)   Once per month, the city shall send electronic mail notification of
all final orders entered pursuant to this chapter since the last date of
notification to each party registered pursuant to this section. The
notification shall provide an electronic link to the city code enforcement
database located on the city website. The database shall include the following
information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this chapter, the
city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   Within ten days of the issuance of a final order pursuant to this
chapter, the city shall update its code enforcement database to reflect the
issued final order, and shall post the notification required by division (D) of
this section containing an updated link to the code enforcement database on the
city website.
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
years following their issuance.
(Ord. 23-03, passed 6-15-23)
§ 38.15 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
38.14(B) of this chapter may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of
notification under §
38.14(D) of this chapter:
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
38.16 of this chapter.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
38.13 of this chapter shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens
if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
38.14 of this chapter for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A) of this section.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) of this section shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except
liens for state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45 day period established in
division (A) of this section expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to
the expiration of the 45-day period, the city shall release the lien in the
County Clerk’s office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of
satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §§
38.14 and
38.15 this chapter, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously
filed liens as provided in division (C) of this section, shall not limit or
restrict any other remedies the city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 23-03, passed 6-15-23)
§ 38.16 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate action
to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe that
the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 23-03, passed 6-15-23)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.     WATER
         
51.     SEWERS
         
52.     SOLID WASTE
         
53.     NATURAL GAS SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Rates for the waterworks system
   
50.02   Water reconnection fees
   
50.03   Billings; delinquency
Cross Connection Control
   
50.10   Title
   
50.11   Purpose and authority
   
50.12   Definitions
   
50.13   Requirements
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 RATES FOR THE WATERWORKS SYSTEM.
   (A)   Rate schedule. Charges for the services of the waterworks system shall
be as follows:
   For Water Service Within the City Limits
 
Service rate                $9.81 (minimum bill)
Charge per 1,000 gallons    $4.53 per 1,000 gallons
 
   For Rural Water Service (All Services Outside City Limits)
 
Service rate                $18.14 (minimum bill)
Charge per 1,000 gallons    $6.05 per 1,000 gallons
   (B)   Meter deposit. The meter deposit for water service to each location
shall be $50. Upon discontinuance of service, the meter deposit will be
refunded to the customer in full, less any outstanding balance due.
   (C)   Delinquency. Customers of water service shall be disconnected if their
account is not paid in full nine days following the date of the delinquent
notice mailed to the customer.
(Ord., passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 94-5, passed 7-27-94; Am. Ord. 97-3, passed 6-
19-97; Am. Ord. 00-3, passed 7-20-00; Am. Ord. 01-8, passed 1-17-02; Am. Ord.
07-1, passed 6-21-07; Am. Ord. 10-4, passed 8-19-10; Am. Ord. 11-2, 6-23-11;
Am. Ord. 14-6, passed 6-23-14; Am. Ord. 15-3, passed 6-18-15; Am. Ord. 17-4,
passed 6-15-17; Am. Ord. 19-3, passed 6- 20-19; Am. Ord. 21-4, passed 6-17-21)
§ 50.02 WATER RECONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   Any person or entity desiring to have water utility service
reconnected and which account has been paid in full and which account has not
been disconnected for non-payment, shall pay a $10 reconnection fee for
property located within the city or a $15 reconnection fee for property located
outside city limits for each utility reconnected. Any person or entity desiring
to have water utility service disconnected for any period of time shall pay a
$10 disconnection fee for property located within city limits, or a $15
disconnection fee for property located outside of city limits.
   (B)   Any person or entity desiring to have water utility service
reconnected which has been disconnected for non-payment shall pay a $75
reconnection fee.
   (C)   Any person or entity desiring to have an established water service
relocated or removed on property shall pay a $35 service charge plus materials
for property located within city limits or a $50 service charge plus materials
for property located outside of city limits. Any required repairs of water
leaks which are deemed to have occurred as the result of the customer's action
or inaction shall be charged at the same rate.
(Ord. 00-3, passed 7-20-00; Am. Ord. 07-3, passed 7-19-07)
§ 50.03 BILLINGS; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS DAY. Any day between and including Monday through Friday, but
excluding public holidays.
   (B)   Utility bills will be mailed on the first day of each month unless the
first day of the month falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, in which case
the utility bills will be mailed on the business day immediately preceding.
   (C)   Utility bill balances are due by the fifteenth day of the month.
Payments not received by the fifteenth day of the month shall be deemed
delinquent and a 10% penalty will be assessed to the delinquent account.
   (D)   A delinquent notice will be mailed on the sixteenth day of the month
unless it falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, in which case the notice
will be mailed on the business day immediately following. The delinquent
customer shall have ten days from the date of said delinquent notice to pay the
delinquent balance in full.
   (E)   Any delinquent customer who has not notified Lewisport Municipal
Utilities of his or her or its desire to set up a payment plan or who has not
requested an extension to pay the delinquent balance by the twenty-sixth day of
the month shall be notified by door hanger that he or she or it will have until
noon the following business day to arrange a payment plan or request an
extension or will have services disconnected.
   (F)   Any delinquent customer who has not paid his or her or its account
balance in full or requested and received a payment plan or extension by 12:00
noon on the business day following the notification by door hanger shall have
his or her or its delinquent utility service disconnected.
   (G)   Upon payment of a $75 re-connection fee and the delinquent balance in
full, or the amount due under an approved payment plan, the utility service
will be re-connected.
   (H)   The Mayor, City Manager, or a designated representative shall approve
payment plans, payment extensions, and/or delinquent disconnects.
(Ord. 14-2, passed 4-24-14)
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 50.10 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Cross Connection
Ordinance.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - -96)
§ 50.11 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish a program to assure
that the public water supply is protected from contamination due to backflow or
cross connections. The city recognizes that contamination of the public water
supply presents an imminent health hazard to the residential and nonresidential
users of the public water system; the threat of significant economic loss due
to disrupted water service to such residential and nonresidential water users
and the potential liability to the city.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this subchapter to meet the requirements
of 401 KAR 8:020 as enacted by the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Cabinet.
   (C)   This subchapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - -96)
§ 50.12 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. The measured vertical distance from the lowest end of a potable
water outlet to the flood rim or line of the fixture or receptacle into which
it discharges. The minimum required air gap shall be twice the effective
opening of the potable water outlet.
   APPROVED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY. Any device that may be approved by the Cabinet
in lieu of proper air gap separation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the city's public water supply. These auxiliary waters may include
water from any natural source such as a well, spring, river, stream or body of
water or any water or other substance of unknown or questionable quality that
may present a health or system hazard to the potable public water supply.
   BACK PRESSURE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
under pressure into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system
from any source other than the original water source.
   BACK SIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source
other than the original water source, caused by the reduction of pressure in
the potable water supply system.
   BACKFLOW. The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. A listing of acceptable backflow prevention assemblies and degree of
hazard is available in the Kentucky State Plumbing Law, Regulations and Code.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the potable water supply by
any waste product, fluid, substance, compound or other material to a degree
which creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through the spread of disease.
   CROSS CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement of pipe or fixtures
between two otherwise separate pipe systems one of which contains potable water
and the other non-potable water or substance of questionable quality, through
which, or because of which, backflow may occur into the potable water system.
   CROSS CONNECTION CONTROLLED. A connection between a potable water system and
a non-potable water system with and approved backflow prevention assembly
properly installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the
protection commensurate with the degree of hazard.
   THERMAL EXPANSION TANK. A device installed on the cold water supply line
near a water heater to compensate for the expansion of water within a water
system when such water is heated.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - -96)
§ 50.13 REQUIREMENTS.
   The city shall provide protection to the public water system against
backflow by implementing the following requirements.
   (A)   Residential. Buildings used for habitation or occupancy shall be
considered as residential buildings. No water service connection to any
premises shall be installed or allowed to be installed by the city unless such
service connection is protected by a backflow prevention assembly. Residential
service connections shall be considered as low hazard applications and all such
connections shall have at a minimum a dual check valve backflow preventer
installed between the water meter and the residence. The city may require
additional or alternate backflow prevention assemblies if the degree of hazard
constitutes a higher level or protection for the public water system.
   (B)   Nonresidential. No water service connection to any nonresidential
facility shall be installed or allowed to be installed by the city unless such
water service connection is protected by a backflow prevention assembly. The
type of protective device required shall be determined at the time of
installation of the service connection and shall be commensurate with the
degree of hazard at the point of such service connection. At a minimum the
service connection shall be installed with a dual check valve backflow
preventer. In the event activities to occur within a nonresidential facility
change and create a higher degree of hazard, then the backflow prevention
assembly shall be replaced with an assembly which provides acceptable
protection.
   (C)   Inspections. The customer's water system shall be open for inspection
at all reasonable times to authorized representatives of the city to determine
whether cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including
violation of this subchapter, exist. When such a condition becomes known, the
city shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing
a physical break in the service line until the customer has corrected the
condition in conformance with the state statutes and city ordinance relating to
plumbing, water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto. Water
service to any premises shall be discontinued if it is found that a backflow
prevention assembly required by this subchapter has been removed, bypassed, or
if an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises. Service will not be
restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
   (D)   Existing service connections. All existing water service connections
which do not have backflow prevention assemblies or existing water service
connections which have less than the minimum required backflow prevention
assemblies, shall, except for the inspection requirements, be excluded from the
requirements of this subchapter so long as the city is assured that the public
water system is satisfactorily protected. Whenever the existing service
connection is moved or requires more than minimum maintenance or when the city
determines that a hazard to health exists, then a backflow prevention shall be
installed on such existing service connection. Periodically, the city shall
install or require to be installed backflow prevention assemblies on existing
unprotected water service connections until such time that all water service
connections within the public water system are equipped with backflow
prevention assemblies. Backflow prevention assemblies shall not be installed on
existing service connections until after the property owner of such residential
or commercial property has been informed of the actual and potential hazards
that may be created as a result of such backflow assembly installation. Notices
provided to such property owners shall include the following language as
adopted in 815 KAR 20:120 Section 2. Item (6):
"If cross connection control devices are properly installed, they shall create
a closed water system. A properly sized thermal expansion tank shall be
installed in the cold water supply located near the water heater."
(Ord. 96-1, passed - -96)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Purpose and policy
   
51.002   Definitions
   
51.003   Abbreviations
Use of Public Sewers
   
51.015   Mandatory sewer connection
   
51.016   Unlawful discharge to storm sewers or natural outlets
   
51.017   Compliance with local, state and federal laws
   
51.018   Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewer
   
51.019   Prohibited discharges
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
51.030   Public sewer not available
   
51.031   Requirements for installation
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.045   Permits
   
51.046   Prohibited connections
   
51.047   Design and installations
   
51.048   Inspection
   
51.049   Repairs by property owners
Pollutant Discharge Limits
   
51.060   General conditions
   
51.061   Restricted discharges
   
51.062   Dilution of wastewater discharge
   
51.063   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.064   Special industrial pretreatment requirements
   
51.065   Protection from accidental and slug discharges
   
51.066   State requirements
   
51.067   City's right of revision
   
51.068   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
Pretreatment Program Administration
   
51.080   Wastewater discharges
   
51.081   Industrial user discharge permits
   
51.082   Permit modifications
   
51.083   Permit conditions
   
51.084   Alternative discharge limits
   
51.085   Permit duration
   
51.086   Permit transfer
   
51.087   Compliance data reporting
   
51.088   Periodic compliance reports
   
51.089   Permit violations
   
51.090   Monitoring
   
51.091   Inspection and sampling
   
51.092   Pretreatment
   
51.093   Annual publication
   
51.094   Significant noncompliance
   
51.095   Confidential information
   
51.096   Signatory requirements
User Charges
   
51.110   Purpose
   
51.111   Definitions
   
51.112   Operation, maintenance and replacement fund
   
51.113   Schedule of rates
   
51.114   Records; rate review
   
51.115   Billings; delinquency
Enforcement
   
51.125   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
51.126   Enforcement authority
   
51.127   Notice of violation
   
51.128   Administrative orders
   
51.129   Show cause hearing
   
51.130   Additional enforcement remedies
   
51.131   Revocation of permit
   
51.132   Liability
   
51.133   Misrepresentation and falsifying of documents
   
51.134   Destruction of sewer system or POTW and legal action
   
51.135   Legal action
   
51.136   Injunctive relief
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the city
and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the general pretreatment
regulations (40 CFR 403).
   (B)   The objectives to this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system inadequately treated into
receiving waters so as to cause violations of the city's KPDES permit or the
atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system;
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system; and
      (5)   Provide for the safety of the treatment plant employees.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contribution to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain nondomestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city
who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city publicly
owned treatment works (POTW). Except as otherwise provided herein, the City
Administrator shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT.  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et. seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Secretary of the Kentucky Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Cabinet for an authorized representative thereof.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. An authorized representative of a user may be:
(1) a principal executive officer of at least the level of vice president, if
the industrial user is a corporation; (2) a general partner or proprietor if
the user is a partnership or proprietorship, respectively; (3) a duly
authorized representative of the individual designated above if such
representative is responsible for the overall operation of the facilities from
which the indirect discharge originates. An authorized representative of the
city may be any person designated by the city to act on its behalf.
   BASELINE MONITORING REPORT (BMR). A report submitted by categorical
industrial users within 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
standard which indicated the compliance status of the user with the applicable
categorical standard (40 CFR 403.12(b)).
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C. expressed in terms of weight and concentration in milligrams
per liter (mg/1).
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, water, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called "house connection."
   BUILDING SEWER PERMIT. As set forth in the subchapter titled "Building
Sewers and Connections," §§
51.045 through
51.049 of this chapter.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to categorical
pretreatment standards which have been promulgated by EPA.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or Pretreatment Standard. Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with Section 307(b) and
(c) of the Act (33 USC 1317) which applies to a specific category of industrial
users.
   CITY. The City of Lewisport, Kentucky.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by the city to supervise the
publicly owned treatment works (POTW) and who is charged with certain duties
and responsibilities by this chapter or his duly authorized representative.
   CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA). Also known as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
enacted by Pub. L. 92-500, October 18, 1972; 33 USC 1251 et seq. as amended by
Pub. L. 95-217, December 28, 1977; Pub. L. 97-117, December 29, 1981; Pub. L.
97-440, January 8, 1983; and Pub. L. 100-04, February 4, 1987, and as amended.
   COMBINED SEWER. Any conduit designed to carry both sanitary sewage and storm
water or surface water.
   COMBINED WASTESTREAM FORMULA (CWF). Procedure for calculating alternative
discharge limits at industrial facilities where a regulated wastestream is
combined with other non-regulated wastestreams prior to treatment (40 CFR
403.7)
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids and fecal
coliform bacteria; plus any additional pollutants identified in the POTW's
NPDES/KPDES permit, where the POTW is designed to treat such pollutants and, in
fact, does treat such pollutants so as to ensure compliance with the POTW's
NPDES/KPDES permit.
   CONCENTRATION-BASED LIMIT. A limit based on the relative strength of a
pollutant in a wastestream, usually expressed in mg/l.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The city when there exists an approved pretreatment
program under the provisions of 40 CFR 403.11.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The maximum allowable value for any single observation in a
given day.
   DILUTE WASTESTREAM. Boiler blowdown, sanitary wastewater, noncontact cooling
water and certain process wastestreams that have been excluded from regulation
in categorical pretreatment standards because they contain none or only trace
amounts of the regulated pollutant.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   DISCHARGER. Any person that discharges or causes a discharge to a public
sewer.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. The water-carried wastes produced from noncommercial or
nonindustrial activities and which result from normal human living processes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT. The liquid overflow of any facility designed to treat, convey or
retain wastewater.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EQUIPMENT. All movable, non-fixed items necessary to the wastewater
treatment process.
   FLOW PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. Combination of individual samples
proportional to the flow of the wastestream at the time of sampling.
   FLOW WEIGHTED AVERAGING FORMULA (FWA). A procedure used to calculate
alternative limits for a categorical pretreatment standard where regulated and
nonregulated wastestreams combine after treatment, but prior to the monitoring
point as defined in 40 CFR 403.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. All pollutants other than COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS as
defined in this section.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from any source regulated under Section 307(b) or (c) of the Act,
(33 USC 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). A source of indirect discharge which does not
constitute a "discharge of pollutants" under regulations issued pursuant to
Section 402 of the Clean Water Act (33 USC 1342).
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial or commercial processes as
distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   INTERCEPTOR. A device designed and installed so as to separate and retain
deleterious, hazardous or undesirable matter from normal wastes which permits
normal sewage or liquid wastes to discharge into the sewer or drainage system
by gravity. Interceptor as defined herein is commonly referred to as a grease,
oil, or sand trap.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
      (2)   Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
POTW's NPDES/KPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in
compliance with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits
issued thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): Section 405
of the Clean Water Act (33 USC 1345), the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA)
(including Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA), and including state regulations contained in any state
sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA (42 USC 6901
et seq.), the Clean Air Act (42 USC 7401 et seq.), the Toxic Substances Control
Act (15 USC 2601 et seq.), and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries
Act (16 USC 1431 et seq. and 33 USC 1401 et seq.).
   MAY. Is permissive. (See SHALL.)
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The maximum allowable value for the average of all
observations obtained during one month.
   MULTI-UNIT SEWER CUSTOMER. A location served where there are two or more
residential units or apartments, two or more businesses in the same building or
complex or where there is any combination of business and residence in the same
building or complex.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act which applies to
a specific category of industrial users. This term includes prohibitive
discharge limits established pursuant to 40 CFR 403.5.
   NATIONAL (or KENTUCKY) POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM OR NPDES/KPDES
PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to Section 402 of the Act (33 USC 1342), or a
permit issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky under this authority and referred
to as KPDES.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a water course,
pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE. Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed Pretreatment Standards under
Section 307(c) of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such
Standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provide
that:
      (1)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at
a site at which no other source is located; or
      (2)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; or
      (3)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
   NINETY DAY-COMPLIANCE REPORT. A report submitted by a categorical industrial
user, within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical standards that documents and certifies the compliance status of the
user (40 CFR 403.12 (d)).
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge of pollutant which cannot be treated adequately by
the POTW, and therefore exits into waters of the United States in quantities or
concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges
from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's
NPDES/KPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) (40 CFR 403.3).
   PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORT. A report on compliance status submitted by
significant industrial users to the Control Authority (city) at least
semiannually (40 CFR 403.12(e)).
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical, wrecked or discharged equipment,
rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste
discharged into water.
   POLLUTION. The man-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical,
biological, and radiological integrity of water.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process change(s), or other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR 403.6(d).
   PROCESS WASTEWATER. Any water which, during manufacturing or processing,
comes into direct contact with or results from the production of or use of any
raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste
product.
   PRODUCTION-BASED STANDARD. A discharge limitation expressed in terms of
allowable pollutant mass discharge rate per unit of production and is applied
directly to an industrial user's manufacturing process.
   PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD. Any regulation developed under the authority
of 307(b) of the Act (33 USC 1317(a)) and 40 CFR 403.5.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than ½ inch in any direction.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility which sewer was paid for or installed by a governmental agency or
public utility or dedicated and accepted by a governmental agency or public
utility. The public sewer does not include sewer lines beginning at the main
line tap to the property(ies) being served.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by
Section 212 of the Act, (33 USC 1292) which is owned in this instance by the
city. This definition also includes any sewers of the city that convey
wastewater to the POTW treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers, or
other conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment. For the
purpose of this chapter, POTW shall also include any sewers that convey
wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the city who are, by contract or
agreement with the city, users of the city's POTW or collection system.
   REGULATED WASTESTREAM. An industrial process wastestream regulated by a
National Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. Domestic or sanitary waste shall
mean the liquid or water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
and institutions as distinct from industrial sewage. The terms "sewage" and
"wastewater" are used interchangeably.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SEWER SYSTEM OR WORKS. All facilities for collecting, transporting, pumping,
treatment and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the sewerage system and
the POTW.
   SEWER USER CHARGES. A system of charges levied on users of a POTW and/or
collection system for the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement, or such works.
   SEWERAGE. Any and all facilities used for collecting, conveying, pumping,
treating and disposing of wastewater.
   SHALL. Is mandatory. (See MAY.)
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Defined by EPA guidance as: all
industrial users subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 CFR
403.6 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N; and any noncategorical industrial
user that discharges 25,000 gallons per day or more of process wastewater
("process wastewater" excludes sanitary noncontact cooling, and boiler blowdown
wastewaters) or contributes a process wastestream which makes up to 5% or more
of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic (BOD, TSS, etc.) capacity of
the treatment plant or has a reasonable  potential, in the opinion of the
control or approval authority, to adversely affect the pollutants, sludge
contamination or endangerment of POTW workers or sewer system workers).
   SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge of a non-routine episodic nature including,
but not limited to, an accidental spill or non-customary batch discharge or any
discharge of water or wastewater in which the concentration of any given
constituent or quantity of flow exceeds, for any period of duration longer than
15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration or flow rate
during normal operation which adversely affects the POTW.
   SLUG LOAD. Any pollutant (including Biochemical Oxygen Demand) released in a
discharge at a flow rate or concentration which will cause interference with
the operation of the treatment works or which exceeds limits set forth in the
industry's discharge permit and which include accidental spills.
   SPILL PREVENTION AND CONTROL PLAN. A plan prepared by an industrial user to
minimize the likelihood of a spill and to expedite control and cleanup
activities should a spill occur.
   SPLIT SAMPLE. Portion of a collected sample given to the industry or to
another agency to verify or compare laboratory results.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification scheme based on
the type of industry or process at a facility.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
recent editions of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation
and as set forth in the Congressional Record and 40 CFR 136.
   STATE. Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STORM DRAIN (Sometimes termed STORM SEWER). A drain or sewer for conveying
water, groundwater, surface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for services in addition to the basic sewer user and
debt service charges, for those users whose contributions contain biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD5), chemical oxygen demand (COD), total suspended solids
(TSS), oil and grease or ammonia-nitrogen (NH3-N) in concentrations which
exceed limits specified herein for such pollutants. Where authorized by the
control authority, payment of a surcharge will authorize the discharge of the
referenced pollutants so long as the discharge does not cause pass through or
interference.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater.
   TIME PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. Combination of individual samples with
fixed volumes taken at specific time intervals.
   TOXIC ORGANIC MANAGEMENT PLAN. Written plan submitted by industrial users as
an alternative to TTO monitoring, which specifies the toxic organic compounds
used, the method of disposal used and procedures for assuring that toxic
organics do not routinely spill or leak into wastewater discharged to the POTW.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of EPA under the provisions of
the Clean Water Act 307 (a) or any amendments thereto.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the treatment
works effluent criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   UNREGULATED WASTESTREAM. A wastestream that is not regulated by a National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the sewer system or POTW.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. Sanitary or domestic wastes
shall mean the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial
buildings and institutions as distinct from industrial waste.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT (WDP). A permit issued to industrial users which
authorizes discharges to the public sewer as set forth in the administration
section of this chapter.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, treat domestic and industrial wastes, and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "water
pollution control plant" or "sewage treatment plant."
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
   ADMI      -   American Dye Manufacturers Institute
   ASTM      -   American Society for Testing and Materials
   BMP      -   Best Management Practices
   BOD      -   Biochemical Oxygen Demand
   BPJ      -   Best Professional Judgment
   CFR      -   Code of Federal Regulations
   CIU      -   Categorical Industrial User
   COD      -   Chemical Oxygen Demand
   CWA      -   Clean Water Act (33 USC 1251 et seq.)
   CWF      -   Combined Wastestream Formula
   EPA      -   Environmental Protection Agency
   FWA      -   Flow Weighted Average
   FR      -   Federal Register
   gpd      -   gallons per day
   IU      -   Industrial User
   l      -   Liter
   mg      -   Milligrams
   mg/l      -   Milligrams per Liter
   NPDES   -   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
   KPDES   -   Kentucky Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
   POTW      -   Publicly Owned Treatment Works
   RCRA      -   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
   SIC      -   Standard Industrial Classification
   SIU      -   Significant Industrial User
   SWDA      -   Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 USC 6901, et seq.
   TSS      -   Total Suspended Solids
   TTO      -   Total Toxic Organics
   USC      -   United States Code
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.015 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is
hereby required at the owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein and to connect such facilities directly with the proper sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet
(305 meters) of the property line.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater where public sanitary sewer service is available, as defined in
division (A) above, except as provided for in §§
51.030 and
51.031.
   (C)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public system within 60 days in compliance with this chapter, and any
septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material or salvaged and
removed.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.016 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited any pollutant in any unsanitary manner on public or private property
within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, except in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet or storm sewer
within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sanitary
wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment or
management has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
chapter. No provision of this chapter shall be construed to relieve the owner
of a discharge to any natural outlet of the responsibility for complying with
applicable state and federal regulations governing such discharge.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.017 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   The discharge of any wastewater into the public sewer system by any person
is unlawful except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and any
more stringent state or federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, and the Clean Water Act of 1977
(33 USC 1251 et seq.), and subsequent amendments and 40 CFR 403.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.018 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS INTO SEWER.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged, through any
leak, defect or connection any unpolluted waters such as storm water,
groundwater, roof runoff or subsurface drainage to any sanitary sewer, building
sewer, building drain or building plumbing. The City Administrator or his
representative shall have the right, at any time, to inspect the inside or
outside of buildings or smoke test for connections, leaks or defects to
building sewers and require disconnection or repair of any pipes carrying such
water to the building sewer. No sanitary drain sump or sump pump discharge by
manual switch-over of discharge connection shall have a dual use for removal of
such water.
   (B)   The owners of any building sewers having such connections, leaks or
defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96; Am. Ord. 97-7, passed - -97) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.019 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly,
any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with performance of the POTW.
These general prohibitions apply to all such users of a POTW whether or not the
user is subject to national categorical pretreatment standards or any other
national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements. A user shall
not contribute the following substances to the sewer system or POTW:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason or their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall the wastewater exhibit a
closed cup flashpoint of less than 140°F. or 60°C. using the test methods
specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the POTW.
   (C)   Any slug load of pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants
(BOD, etc.), released at a flow rate and/or concentration that will cause
interference with the normal operation of the sewer system or POTW.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the wastewater facilities (i.e., wood, glass, ashes, sand,
cinders, unshredded garbage, etc.).
   (E)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW that will
result in a treatment plant influent temperature which exceeds 40°C. (104°F.).
   (F)   Any pollutant(s) which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the sewer system or POTW in a quantity that may cause acute
worker health and safety problems.
   (G)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other product
of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scum to be unsuitable for reclamation
and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the POTW is
pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or
disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under Section 405 of the
Act; any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the
Toxic Substances Control Act or State criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used.
   (H)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES/KPDES
permit and/or sludge disposal system permit.
   (I)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral oil
origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through at the POTW.
   (J)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants except at discharge points designated
by the City Administrator.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 51.030 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§§
51.015 through
51.019, the building sewer shall be connected, until the public sewer is
available, to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of the Hancock County Health Department and all applicable local and
state regulations.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (C)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by applicable
local or state regulations.
   (D)   Holders of NPDES/KPDES permits may be excepted. Industries with
current NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge at permitted discharge points
provided they are in compliance with the issuing authority.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.031 REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all local or state regulations.
   (B)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the local and state
authorities.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.045 PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits required; for
residential and for service to commercial and industrial establishments. In
either case, the owner(s) or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the city. Applicants for service to commercial and industrial
establishments shall be required to furnish information about all waste
producing activities, wastewater characteristics and constituents. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the City Administrator.
Details regarding commercial and industrial permits include, but are not
limited to, those required by this chapter. Permit and inspection fees shall be
paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
   (B)   Users shall promptly notify the city in advance of any introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the POTW. The City
Administrator may deny or condition the new introduction or change in discharge
based on the information submitted in the notification or additional
information as may be requested.
   (C)   No person(s) shall uncover, plug or make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining permission from the City Administrator.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.046 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, basement wall seepage or
floor seepage, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other surface
runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Any such
connections which already exist on the effective date of this chapter shall be
completely and permanently disconnected within 60 days of the effective date of
this chapter. The owner(s) of any building sewers having such connections,
leaks or defects bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources. Pipes,
sumps and pumps for such sources of ground and surface water shall be separate
from wastewater facilities. Removal of such sources of water without presence
of separate facilities shall be evidence of drainage to public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.047 DESIGN AND INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway. The sewer from
the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer but the city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
single connection aforementioned.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the City Administrator, to meet
all requirements of this chapter. Permit and inspection fees for new buildings
using existing building sewers shall be the same as for new building sewers. If
additional sewer customers are added to the old building sewers, additional
sewer tap fees shall be charged accordingly even though no new sewer tap is
actually made into the city system.
   (C)   Extension of customer service lines from any point on the customer's
side of the tap for delivery of waste from any location other than that of the
customer in whose name the tap is registered shall not be permitted.
   (D)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM A-74, latest
revision, PVC (polyvinyl-chloride) sewer pipe, ASTM D-3034, latest revision, or
ductile iron pipe, AWWA specification C-151 cement lined, and shall meet
requirements of the state plumbing code. Joints shall be as set out
hereinafter. Any part of the building sewer that is located within five feet of
a water service pipe shall be constructed with cast iron soil pipe or ductile
iron pipe, unless the building sewer is at least one foot deeper in the ground
than the water service line. Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe may be
required by the city where the building sewer is exposed to damage or stoppage
by tree roots. Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe shall be used in filled
or unstable ground, in areas where the cover over the building sewer is less
than three feet or in areas where the sewer is subject to vehicular or other
external loads.
   (E)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
local and state building and plumbing codes and other applicable rules and
regulations of the city.
   (F)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
to the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the city for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. Fees for connection shall
be as established by the city.
   (G)   The owner shall ensure that all excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the city.
   (H)   In all buildings in which any sanitary facility drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the same building sewer.
Drain pipe and sump for collection of such sanitary drainage shall be above
basement floor or in separately watertight or drained sump or channel.
   (I)   The building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer at the
easement or property line. Where no property located service branch is
available, an authorized agent of the city shall cut a neat hole into the main
line of the public sewer and a suitable wye or tee saddle installed to receive
the building sewer. The invert of the building sewer at such point of
connection with a saddle shall be in the upper quadrant to the main line of the
public sewer. A neat workmanlike connection, not extending past the inner
surface of the public sewer, shall be made and the saddle made secure and
watertight by encasement in epoxy cement specially prepared for this purpose. A
wye and H bend fitting shall be installed at the property line between the
public sewer and the building sewer. This fitting shall serve the purpose of a
clean out and for applying the smoke test during inspection. of the line. After
testing, a cast iron or ductile iron riser will be inserted in this fitting and
brought flush with the ground surface. A stopper or plug, outfitted with a type
joint applicable to the pipe used, shall seal this riser against the intrusion
of ground or surface water.
   (J)   All building sanitary sewer lines will be installed so as to meet or
exceed the most current revision of the State Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.048 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the City
Administrator when the building sewer is ready for connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the City
Administrator or his representative. The connections shall be made gastight and
watertight and verified by proper testing.
   (B)   All building sewers shall be smoke tested through the wye branch at
the public sewer connection, with public sewer tightly plugged off, after
connections at both ends are made and after all pipe is properly bedded and
backfilled at least to top of pipe and if backfill is completed, within two
weeks after completion of backfill. At time of test, any openings into the
building drain inside the building shall be water trapped or plugged. Any
leakage or smoke from building sewer or building drain and plumbing shall be
located at test and repaired to stand repetition of smoke test without leakage.
When smoke testing is completed, the temporary flow line plug shall be removed
and a permanent watertight plug shall be placed in branch of test wye-branch
and carefully backfilled by hand and tamped to at least six inches above the
top of the branch.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.049 REPAIRS BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Any repairs within the public easements by private owners or their agents
shall be subject to approval by the City Administrator or his representative.
When the repairs are proven by the property owners to be under the streets,
curbs and/or sidewalks, the replacement cost of the streets, curbs and/or
sidewalks shall be paid for by the city.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS
§ 51.060 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   The following described substances, materials, waters or wastes shall be
limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentration or quantities
which: will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will maintain and protect water quality in the receiving stream, and
will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. The City Administrator may set additional limitations or limitations
more stringent than those established in the provisions below if in his opinion
more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming
his opinion as to the acceptability of a discharge, the City Administrator
shall give consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the
wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.061 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   The following are restricted discharges:
   (A)   Wastewater containing more than 100 milligrams per liter of petroleum
oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or products of mineral oil origin.
   (B)   Wastewater containing floatable oils, fat, or grease, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 200 milligrams per liter (200 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures 32-
150°F. (0-65°C.).
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders may
be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, motels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where garbage originates
from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the
premises or when served by caterers. Paper products are prohibited from being
discharged into the sewer system.
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants which: injure or
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans
to humans or animals, causes the city to violate the terms of its KPDES permit,
prevents the use of acceptable sludge disposal methods, or exceed a limitation
set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard.
   (E)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations.
   (F)   Any water or wastes which by interaction with other water or wastes in
the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids which
interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious to
structures and treatment processes.
   (G)   Any wastewater with objectionable color which cannot be removed to an
acceptable level within the operation of the wastewater treatment process but
in no case, wastewater with a color that exceeds 100 ADMI units.
   (H)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed to the
extent required by the city's NPDES/KPDES permit.
   (I)   Any waste(s) or wastewater(s) classified as a hazardous waste by the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) without a 60-day prior
notification of such discharge to the City Administrator. This notification
must include the name of the hazardous waste, the EPA hazardous waste number,
type of discharge, volume/mass of discharge and time of occurrence(s). The City
Administrator may prohibit or condition the discharge(s) at any time.
   (J)   (1)   Any waters or wastes which have characteristics based on a 24-
hour composite sample, grab or a shorter period composite sample, if more
representative, that exceed the following normal maximum domestic wastewater
parameter concentrations:
 
Maximum Allowable Concentration
Parameter            Without Surcharges
BOD                  250 mg/l
COD                  1,000 mg/l
TSS                  250 mg/l
NH3-N                30 mg/l
Oil & Grease (total) 100 mg/l
 
      (2)   Any person discharging wastewater exceeding the maximum allowable
concentration as noted above, will be subject to a surcharge fee for each point
loading over and above the set limit. Any other amenable constituents requiring
the addition of specific chemicals for proper treatment will also be subject to
surcharge as noted on the wastewater discharge permit. Exceedance of the
effluent limits specified above shall not be deemed to constitute a violation
of a permit condition or this chapter if the appropriated surcharge fee is paid
and the discharge does not cause interference or pass through of the POTW.
   (K)   The following limitations are established for characteristics of any
wastewaters to be discharged into the municipal sewer system. All significant
industrial users must comply with these limitations where they are more
stringent than applicable state and/or federal regulations.
Parameter Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Parameter            Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Arsenic              0.10
Cadmium              1.0
Chromium             10.0
Copper               1.0
Cyanide, total       0.1
Lead                 0.1
Mercury              0.1
Nickel               1.0
Silver               0.25
Zinc                 1.0
Total Toxic Organics 2.13
 
   (L)   The city has received authority through the U.S. EPA and state
statutes to enforce the requirements of 40 CFR Subchapter N, 40 CFR 403, and 40
CFR 35. All users shall comply with the requirements of those regulations.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.062 DILUTION OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   No use shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal
categorical pretreatment standards, or in any pollutant specific limitation
developed by the city or state.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.063 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable, grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptor shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the city and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining
of these interceptors the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal
and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain
records of the dates, and means of disposal. The city may require that hauling
of the collected materials not performed by owner(s) personnel must be
performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms. Interceptors shall also
comply with applicable regulations of the County Health Department.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.064 SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements imposed on publicly owned wastewater
treatment works by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972
and later amendments, all pretreatment standards promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency for new and existing industrial dischargers to
public sewer systems are hereby made a part of this chapter. Any industrial
waste discharge which violates these EPA Pretreatment standards shall be in
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or
required for and waters or wastes, the industry shall be solely responsible for
the continued maintenance in satisfactory and effective operation of such
facilities and at their expense. The city may agree to assume these
responsibilities if proper and appropriate arrangement for reimbursement of
costs are made.
   (C)   Any person who transports septic tank, seepage pit or cesspool
contents, liquid industrial waste or other batch liquid waste and wishes to
discharge such waste to the public sewer system shall first have a valid
discharge permit. All applicants for a discharge permit shall complete the
application form, pay the appropriate fee, and receive a copy of the city's
regulations governing discharge to sewers of liquid wastes from trucks. All
persons receiving such permits shall agree, in writing, to abide by all
applicable provisions of this chapter, and any other special provisions that
may be established by the city as necessary for the proper operation and
maintenance of the sewerage system.
      (1)   In addition any person holding a valid permit and wishing to
discharge to the wastewater treatment plant must submit to the City
Administrator a sample of each load prior to discharge. A fee and payment
schedule shall be established in the permit to cover cost of the required
analysis.
      (2)   It shall be illegal to discharge any batch liquid waste into any
manhole or other part of the public sewer system, or any building sewer or
other facility that discharges to the public sewer system, except at designated
points of discharge specified by the city for such purpose.
      (3)   Any liquid waste hauler illegally discharging to the public sewer
system or discharging wastewater not authorized in the permit shall be subject
to immediate revocation of discharge privileges and her subject to the
penalties and enforcement actions prescribed in §§
51.125 through
51.136 including fines and imprisonment.
      (4)   Waste haulers who have been granted permission to discharge to the
public sewer system shall pay fees for such discharge in accordance with a fee
schedule established and approved by the city.
      (5)   Nothing in this chapter shall relieve waste haulers of the
responsibility for compliance with Hancock County Health Department, state, or
federal regulations.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.065 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL AND SLUG DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each significant industrial user shall provide protection from
accidental and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials or other substances
regulated by this chapter which adversely affects the POTW. Facilities to
prevent accidental and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner or user's own cost and expense. Once every
two years, the City Administrator will determine whether each industrial user
needs to develop or update a plan to control slug discharges. If the City
Administrator determines that a slug control plan or revision is necessary, the
plan shall contain the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals
      (3)   Procedures for notifying the POTW
      (4)   Prevention procedures for spills
   (B)   In the case of all possible or actual accidental and/or slug
discharges, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and
notify the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include location of
discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
   (C)   Within five days following an accidental discharge, the user shall
submit to the City Administrator a detailed written report describing the cause
of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar
future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the
POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall such
notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties, or other liability
which may be imposed by this article, the Enforcement Response Plan or other
applicable law.
   (D)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
dangerous discharge. Employers shall insure that all employees who may cause or
suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.066 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.067 CITY'S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish more stringent limitations, or
requirements on discharges to the POTW if deemed necessary to comply with the
objectives presented in this chapter.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.068 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of federal categorical pretreatment standards for a
particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent than
limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory, shall
immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.080 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to the POTW any wastewater except as
authorized by the city in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any agency, nondomestic user, and/or industry outside the jurisdiction
of the city that desires to contribute wastewater to the POTW must execute
(through an authorized representative) an interjurisdictional agreement,
whereby the agency and/or industry agrees to be regulated by all provisions of
this chapter and state and federal regulations. An industrial user permit may
then be issued by the City Administrator in accordance with §
51.081 of this chapter.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.081 INDUSTRIAL USER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   General. All significant industrial users proposing to connect to or
to contribute to the POTW shall obtain an industrial user permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
   (B)   Permit application. Users required to obtain an industrial user permit
shall complete and file with the city, an application in the form prescribed by
the city, and accompanied by a permit fee. New users shall apply at least 90
days prior to connecting to or contributing to the POTW. Existing permit holder
shall apply no later than 60 days prior to expiration of permit. In support of
the application, the user shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for
evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and location if different from the address;
      (2)   SIC number(s) according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, United States Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by an
analytical laboratory acceptable to the city; sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to
Section 304(g) of the Act (33 USC 1314) and contained in 40 CFR 136, as
amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by the city, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional pretreatment
is required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standards. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule must be acceptable to the city.
         (b)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
City Administrator including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress and the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
the rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number of employees, and hours of operation of plant and proposed
or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application;
      (14)   A copy of the industry's written environmental control program,
comparable document, or policy.
   (C)   The city shall evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require
additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished,
the city may issue an industrial wastewater discharge permit subject to terms
and conditions provided herein.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.082 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the industrial wastewater discharge permit of users
subject to such standards shall be revised to require compliance with such
standards within the time frame prescribed by such standards. Where a user,
subject to national categorical pretreatment standards, has not previously
submitted an application for an industrial wastewater discharge permit as
required, the user shall apply for an industrial wastewater discharge permit
within 90 days after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical
pretreatment standards. In addition, the user with an existing industrial
wastewater discharge permit shall submit, to the City Engineer within 90 days
after the promulgation of an applicable federal categorical pretreatment
standard, the information required by this chapter.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.083 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Industrial wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges
and fees established by the city. Permits may contain the following:
   (A)   The unit surcharges or schedule of other charges aid fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
   (B)   Limits on the average and/or maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
   (C)   Limits on average and/or maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
   (D)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
   (E)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
location; frequency of sampling; number, type and standards for tests; and
reporting schedule;
   (F)   Compliance schedules;
   (G)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge reports;
   (H)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining, for a minimum of three
years, all plant records relating to pretreatment and/or wastewater discharge
as specified by the city, and affording city access thereto as required by 40
CFR 403.12(o)(2);
   (I)   Requirements for notification of the city or any new introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
   (J)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
   (K)   The permit may require the user to reimburse the city for all expenses
related to monitoring, sampling and testing performed at the direction of the
City Administrator and deemed necessary by the city to verify that the user is
in compliance with the said permit;
   (L)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.084 ALTERNATIVE DISCHARGE LIMITS.
   (A)   Where an effluent from a categorical industrial process(es) is mixed
prior to treatment with wastewater other than that generated by the regulated
process, fixed alternative discharge limits may be derived for the discharge
permit by the City Administrator. These alternative limits shall be applied to
the mixed effluent and shall be calculated using the combined wastestream
formula and/or flow-weight average formula as defined in §
51.002.
   (B)   Where the effluent limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are
expressed only in terms of mass of pollutants per unit of production
(production-based standard), the City Administrator may convert the limits to
equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of pollutant discharged per day
or of effluent concentration for purposes of calculating effluent permit
limitations applicable to the permittee. The permittee shall be subject to all
permit limits calculated in this manner under 40 CFR 403.6(c) and must fully
comply with these alternative limits.
   (C)   All categorical users subject to production-based standards must
report production rates annually so that alternative permit limits can be
calculated if necessary. The categorical user must notify the City
Administrator 30 days in advance of any major change in production levels that
will affect the limits for the discharge permit.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.085 PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five
years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be stated to
expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum
of 60 days prior to the expiration of the user's existing permit. The terms and
conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the city during the
term of the permit as limitations or requirements as identified in §§
51.060 through
51.068 are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in their permit at least 30 days prior to the effective
date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.086 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Industrial user permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. An industrial user permit shall not be reassigned or transferred or
sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or changed
operation without a 30-day prior notification to the City Administrator and
provision of a copy of the existing permit to the new owner. The City
Administrator may deny the transfer of the permit if it is deemed necessary.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.087 COMPLIANCE DATA REPORTING.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new user, following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW any user subject
to federal categorical pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit, to
the City Administrator, a report indicating the nature and concentration of all
pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
categorical pretreatment standards and requirements and the average and maximum
daily flow for these process units in the user's facility which are limited by
such categorical standards and requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable categorical pretreatment standards and requirements are being met on
a consistent basis and, if not, what additional pretreatment and time schedule
is necessary to bring the user into compliance with the applicable categorical
pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement shall be signed by an
authorized representative of the user.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.088 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall submit, to the City
Administrator, every six months (on dates specified in the industrial user
permit) unless required more frequently by the permit, a report indicating, at
a minimum, the nature and concentration, of pollutants in the effluent which
are limited by such pretreatment standards or discharge permit. In addition,
this report shall include a record of all daily flows which during the
reporting period exceeded the average daily flow. At the discretion of the City
Administrator and in consideration of such factors as local high or low flow
rates, holidays, budget cycles, etc., the City Administrator may agree to alter
the months during which the above reports are to be submitted.
   (B)   All analyses shall be performed by a laboratory acceptable to the
city. Analytical procedures shall be in accordance with procedures established
by the U.S. EPA Administrator pursuant to Section 304(g) of the Act and
contained in 40 CFR 136 and amendments thereto and 40 CFR 261 or with any other
test procedures approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator. Sampling shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques approved by the U.S. EPA
Administrator.
   (C)   Where 40 CFR 136 does not include a sampling or analytical technique
for the pollutant(s) in question sampling and analysis shall be performed in
accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication Sampling and
Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for Priority
Pollutants, April 1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other sampling and
analytical procedures approved by the U.S EPA Administrator.
   (D)   A baseline monitoring report (BMR) must be submitted to the City
Administrator by all categorical industrial users at least 90 days prior to
initiation of discharge to the sanitary sewer. The BMR must contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      (1)   Production data: a process description, SIC code number, raw
materials used, chemicals used, final product, pretreatment industrial category
(if applicable), and a schematic which indicated points of discharge to the
sewer system.
      (2)   Identifying information to include name, address of facility, owner
(s), contact person and any other permits held by the facility.
      (3)   Wastewater characteristics: total plant flow, types of discharges,
average and maximum flows from each process.
      (4)   Nature/concentration of pollutants: analytical results for all
pollutants regulated by this chapter and/or any applicable federal pretreatment
standard and sample type and location. All analyses must conform with 40 CFR
136 and amendments thereto.
      (5)   Information concerning any pretreatment equipment used to treat
facility's discharge.
   (E)   New sources shall give estimates of the information requested in
divisions (3) and (4) above, but at no time shall a new source commence
discharge(s) to the public sewer of substances that do not meet provisions of
this chapter. All new sources must be in compliance with all provision of this
chapter, state and federal pretreatment regulations prior to commencement of
discharge to the public sewer.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.089 PERMIT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users must notify the City Administrator
within 24 hours of first becoming aware of a permit violation. This
notification shall include the date of violation, the parameter violated and
the amount in exceedance.
   (B)   The user shall immediately repeat the sampling and analysis of the
parameter(s) in question and submit the results to the City Administrator
within 30 days after becoming aware of the violation.
   Exception to this regulation is only if the city performs the sampling
within the same time period for the same parameter(s) in question.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.090 MONITORING.
   (A)   The city shall require significant users to provide and operate, at
the user's own expense, monitoring facilities and equipment necessary to allow
inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or
internal drainage system. The monitoring facility should normally be situated
on the user's premises, but the city may, when such a location would be
impractical or cause undue hardship in the user, allow the facility to be
constructed in a public right-of-way. The City Administrator shall review and
approve the location, plans, and specifications for such motoring facilities
and may require them to be constructed to provide for the separate monitoring
and sampling of industrial waste and sanitary sewage flows.
      (1)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or
facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
The facility shall be designed and maintained in a manner such that the safety
of city and industrial personnel shall be foremost. The facility, sampling, and
measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a proper operating
condition at the expense of the user.
      (2)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
motoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city's
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
approval of the location, plans and specifications.
   (B)   All sampling analyses done in accordance with approved federal EPA
procedures by the industrial user during a reporting period shall be submitted
to the City Administrator regardless of whether or not that analysis was
required by the industrial user's discharge permit.
   (C)   The industrial user must receive the approval of the City
Administrator before changing the sampling point and/or monitoring facilities
to be used in all required sampling.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.091 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether
the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city or their representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, copying records, records examination or in the performance of any of
their duties.
   (B)   The city, approval authority and EPA shall have the right to set up on
the user's property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling,
inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has
security measures in force which would require proper identification and
clearance before entry onto their premises, the user shall make the necessary
arrangements with their security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the city, approval authority and EPA will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.092 PRETREATMENT.
   All significant industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater
treatment as required to comply with this chapter and achieve compliance with
any applicable federal categorical pretreatment standards within the time
limitations as specified by the federal pretreatment regulations. The city may
require the development of a compliance schedule for installation of any
industrial user that cannot meet discharge limits required by this chapter. Any
facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level required by this chapter
shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed
plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the city for review, and shall be acceptable to the city before
construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures
will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the
facility as necessary to produce an effluent that complies with the provisions
of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or
method of operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior to
the user's initiation of the changes.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.093 ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   (A)   The city shall annually publish in its largest daily newspaper a list
of significant users which were in significant noncompliance with any
pretreatment requirements or standards. The notification shall also summarize
any enforcement actions taken against the user(s) during the same 12 months.
   (B)   All records relating to the city's pretreatment program shall be made
available to officials of the EPA or approval authority upon request. All
records shall be maintained for a minimum of three years in accordance with 40
CFR 403.12(0)(2).
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.094 SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   A user is defined as being in significant noncompliance when it commits one
or more of the following conditions:
   (A)   Causes imminent endangerment to human health or the environment or
results in the exercise of emergency authority;
   (B)   Involves failure to report noncompliance accurately;
   (C)   Results in a chronic violation defined here as 66% or more of all
measurements taken during a six-month period that exceed (by any magnitude) the
daily maximum limit or the monthly average limit for the same pollutant
parameter;
   (D)   Results in a technical review criteria (TRC) violation defined here as
33% or more of all measurements for each pollutant parameter taken during a
six-month period that equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum limit or
the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS,
fats, and oil & grease and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   (E)   Any violation of a pretreatment effluent limit that the control
authority determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through or has endangered the health of the POTW personnel
or the public;
   (F)   Any discharge causing imminent endangerment to human health/welfare or
to the environment or resulting in the POTW's use of its emergency authority to
halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (G)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, failure to comply with
schedule milestones for starting or completing construction or attaining final
compliance by 90 days or more after the schedule date;
   (H)   Failure to provide required reports within 30 days of the due date;
   (I)   Any violation or group of violations which the control authority
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.095 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests in writing and is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the city that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as
trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available to all
governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES/KPDES permit,
sludge disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment programs upon request.
Such portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state
agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics shall not be
recognized as confidential information and shall be available to the public
without restriction.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.096 SIGNATORY REQUIREMENTS.
   All applications, reports or information submitted to the city shall be
signed and certified.
   (A)   All permit applications shall be signed:
      (1)   For a corporation: by a principal executive officer of at least the
level of vice-president;
      (2)   For a partnership or sole proprietorship: by a general partner or
the proprietor, respectively.
   (B)   All other correspondence, reports and self-monitoring reports shall be
signed by a person described above or by a duly authorized representative of
that person. A person is duly authorized only if:
      (1)   The authorization is made in writing by a person described above;
      (2)   The authorization specified either an individual or a position
having facility or activity, such as the position of plant manager,
superintendent or position of equivalent responsibility.
   (C)   Any person signing a document under this section shall make the
following certification:
"I certify under penalty of law that I am familiar with the information
contained in this report and its attachments and that to the best of my
knowledge and belief such information is true, complete and accurate."
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
USER CHARGES
§ 51.110 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the system
to collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the city
sanitary sewer system. The proceeds of such charges so derived will be used for
the purpose of operating and maintaining the public wastewater system.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 7-18-96)
   (B)   This subchapter provides for the recovery of costs from users of the
POTW for the implementation of the program established herein. The applicable
charges or fees shall be set forth in the city's schedule of charges and fees.
   (C)   The city may adopt charges and fees which may include:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
city's pretreatment program;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspection,s and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
      (4)   Fees for permit applications;
      (5)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (6)   Fees for consistent removal by the POTW of excessive strength
conventional pollutants;
      (7)   Fee for reimbursement of costs for any consulting engineering
services to conduct studies, review reports, evaluate discharge limits,
surcharges, or any other service relating ot the development of industrial user
permits.
      (8)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
   (D)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the city.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.111 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD. (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation or organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C., expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   COMMERCIAL USER. All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings,
laundries, and other private business and service establishments.
   DEBT SERVICE. Charges levied on users of the wastewater treatment works to
support the annual debt service obligations of the system.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Legislative, judicial, administrative, and regulatory
activities of federal, state and local governments.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a
"discharge of pollutants" under regulations issued pursuant to Section 402 of
the Clean Water Act (33 USC 1342).
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Social, charitable, religious, and educational
activities such as schools,  churches, hospitals, nursing homes, penal
institutions and similar institutional users.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 250 mg/l and a suspended solids (TSS) concentration of not more than
250 mg/l and chemical oxygen demand (COD) concentration of not more than 1000
mg/l and nitrogen (NH3-N) concentration of not more than 30 mg/l and oil and
grease total concentration of not more than 100 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Those functions that result in expenditures
during the useful life of the treatment works for materials, labor, utilities
and other items which are necessary for managing and for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term includes REPLACEMENT as defined in this
section.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any contributor to the city's wastewater system whose lot,
parcel or real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes only.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SS. (Denoting suspended solids). Solids that either float on the surface of
or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable
by laboratory filtering.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of municipal wastewater, domestic wastewater or
liquid industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers,
wastewater collection systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and their
appurtenances, extension, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof, elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works, including
site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment
process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such
treatment (including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of such
compost and land used for the storage of treated wastewater in method or system
of preventing, abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating or disposing of
municipal waste or industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water
and sanitary sewer systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. That portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance and replacement of the wastewater treatment works.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by a user and approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 7-18-96)
§ 51.112 OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   The revenues collected, as a result of the user charges levied, shall
be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the operation, maintenance
and replacement fund.
   (B)   Fiscal year-end balances in the operation, maintenance, and
replacement fund shall be used for no other purposes than those designated.
Monies which have been transferred from other sources to meet temporary
shortages in the operation, maintenance and replacement fund shall be returned
to their respective accounts upon appropriate adjustment of the user charge
rates for operation, maintenance and replacement. The user charge rate(s) shall
be adjusted such that the transferred monies will be returned to their
respective accounts within six months of the fiscal year in which the monies
were borrowed.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 7-18-96)
§ 51.113 SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   (A)   Schedule. The following schedule of rates shall apply to each user of
the wastewater treatment works. This schedule includes rates for user charges
and rates for debt service charges, each based on the volume of metered or
estimated water consumption.
 
Wastewater Services Monthly Rate Schedule
Service rate             $12.48 (minimum bill)
Charge per 1,000 gallons $4.85 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   Charges based on actual usage. For residential, industrial,
institutional and commercial users, monthly user charges will be based on
actual water usage. If a residential, commercial, institutional, or industrial
user has a consumptive use of water, or, in some other manner, uses water which
is not discharged into the wastewater collection system, the user charge for
that contributor may be based on readings of a wastewater meter(s) or separate
water meter(s) installed and maintained at the user's expense.
   (C)   Flat sewer service fee.
      (1)   For residential users that are not connected to a public water
system to allow billing based on water consumption, the schedule of flat sewer
service user charges are established as follows:
 
Effective August 1, 1996  $15.85/month
Effective January 1, 1997 $19.80/month
Effective July 1, 1997    $24.52/month
 
      (2)   Any residential user not connected to a public water system must
file an affidavit with the City Administrator to establish the flat fee user
rate.
   (D)   Surcharges. For those users whose wastewater has a greater strength
than normal domestic wastewater, a surcharge in addition to the normal user
charge, will be collected. The following surcharge rates shall apply to each
user of the treatment works that has received permission from the City
Administrator to contribute excessive strength sewage:
 
BOD          $0.090 per pound.
TSS          $0.090 per pound
COD          $0.090 per pound
NH3-N        $0.050 per pound
Oil & Grease $0.090 per pound
 
   (E)   Method of billing surcharges. The excessive strength surcharge shall
be based on a formula (See example below), with the total applied to the
monthly bill of affected users:
   EXAMPLE FORMULA
   (A(D-250) + B(E-250) + C(F-25) x .00834 x G = Surcharge Payment ($/mo.)
   Where formula components are as follows:
   A.   Surcharge rate for BOD, in $/pound.
   B.   Surcharge rate of SS, in $/pound.
   C.   Surcharge rate for other pollutant(s) in $/pound.
   D.   User's average BOD concentration, in mg/l.
   E.   User's average SS concentration, in mg/l.
   F.   User's average other pollutants concentration, in mg/l.
   G.   User's monthly flow to wastewater works, per 1,000 gals.
   No reduction in wastewater service charges, fees, or taxes shall be
permitted because of the fact that certain waste discharges to the wastewater
works contain less than 250 mg/l of BOD, 250 mg/l of TSS, 1000 mg/l of COD, 30
mg/l of NH3-N or 100 mg/l of oil and grease.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 7-18-96)
   (F)   Sewer connection fees. It shall be the policy for the city to allow
customers outside the city limits to connect to the existing city sewer system,
provided sewer capacity is available, by paying the following fees:
      (1)   Single family dwelling - $300.
      (2)   Multi-family dwelling (any dwelling more than one family) - $500.
      (3)   Commercial business - $700.
      (4)   Industrial enterprise - $1,000.
(Ord. passed 10-23-97; Am. Ord. 11-5, passed 8-19-10; Am. Ord. 11-3, passed 6-
23-11; Am. Ord. 14-7, passed 6-23-14; Am. Ord. 15-4, passed 6- 18-15; Am. Ord.
17-5, passed 6-15-17; Am. Ord. 21-5, passed 6-17-21)
§ 51.114 RECORDS; RATE REVIEW.
   (A)   The City Council shall maintain financial records to accurately
account for revenues generated by the treatment system and expenditures for
operation and maintenance of the system, including normal replacement costs.
   (B)   The City Council shall review not less often than annually the
wastewater contribution of users, the total cost of OM&R of the wastewater
works, debt service obligations, and user charge rates. Based on such review,
the City Council shall revise, when necessary, the schedule of user charge
rates to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain an equitable distribution of OM&R costs among users of the
treatment system; and
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenues to offset costs associated with the
proper operation and maintenance of the wastewater system and to meet debt
service requirements.
      (3)   Excessive strength and toxicity surcharges shall be reviewed at the
time of and in conjunction with the review of user charges. Surcharge rates
shall be revised where necessary to reflect current treatment and monitoring
costs.
      (4)   Each user shall be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with
a regular bill of the rate and that portion of the total charge which is
attributable to OM&R of the wastewater system.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 7-18-96)
§ 51.115 BILLINGS; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS DAY. Any day between and including Monday through Friday, but
excluding public holidays.
   (B)   Utility bills will be mailed on the first day of each month unless the
first day of the month falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, in which case
the utility bills will be mailed on the business day immediately preceding.
   (C)   Utility bill balances are due by the fifteenth day of the month.
Payments not received by the fifteenth day of the month shall be deemed
delinquent and a 10% penalty will be assessed to the delinquent account.
   (D)   A delinquent notice will be mailed on the sixteenth day of the month
unless it falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, in which case the notice
will be mailed on the business day immediately following. The delinquent
customer shall have ten days from the date of said delinquent notice to pay the
delinquent balance in full.
   (E)   Any delinquent customer who has not notified Lewisport Municipal
Utilities of his or her or its desire to set up a payment plan or who has not
requested an extension to pay the delinquent balance by the twenty sixth day of
the month shall be notified by door hanger that he or she or it will have until
noon the following business day to arrange a payment plan or request an
extension or will have services disconnected.
   (F)   Any delinquent customer who has not paid his or her or its account
balance in full or requested and received a payment plan or extension by 12:00
noon on the business day following the notification by door hanger shall have
his or her or its delinquent utility service disconnected.
   (G)   Upon payment of a $75 re-connection fee and the delinquent balance in
full, or the amount due under an approved payment plan, the utility service
will be re-connected.
   (H)   The Mayor, City Manager, or a designated representative shall approve
payment plans, payment extensions, and/or delinquent disconnects.
(Ord. 96-9, passed 7-18-96; Am. Ord. 14-3, passed 4-24-14)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.125 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Right to enter premises. The City Administrator and other duly
promulgated employees and representatives of the city and authorized
representatives of applicable federal and state regulatory agencies bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing pertinent to discharge to the public sewer system in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Right to obtain information regarding discharge. The City
Administrator and other duly authorized employees of the city and authorized
representatives of applicable federal and state regulatory agencies bearing
proper credentials and identification are authorized to obtain information
including but not limited to copying of records concerning character, strength
and quantity of industrial wastes which have a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the wastewater collection system.
   (C)   Access to easements. Duly authorized employees and representatives of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purpose of, but not limited to, construction, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portions of
the wastewater facilities lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent
work, if any said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of
the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   (D)   Safety. While performing the necessary work on private properties
referred to in division (C) above, all duly authorized employees of the city
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company. The company shall be held blameless for injury or death to city
employees. The city shall secure the company against loss or damage to its
property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions required by
this chapter.
   (E)   Access. The governmental agency or public utility reserves the right
of access to all public sewers for necessary maintenance.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.126 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The city through the City Administrator or his designee, to insure
compliance with this chapter, and as permitted through 40 CFR Subchapter N, and
401 KAR 5:055, may take the following enforcement steps against users in
noncompliance with the chapter. The remedies available to the POTW include
injunctive relief, civil and criminal penalties, immediate discontinuance of
discharges and/or water service and the publishing of the list of significant
violators annually. The enforcement authority shall be vested in the City
Administrator or their designee.
   (B)   The City Administrator may suspend the wastewater treatment service
and/or an industrial user permit when such suspension is necessary, in the
opinion of the city, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health
or welfare of persons, to the environment, causes interference to the POTW or
causes the city to violate any condition of its NPDES/KPDES permit.
   (C)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service
and/or the industrial user permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The city shall
reinstate the industrial user permit and/or the wastewater treatment service
upon proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge. A detailed
written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be
submitted to the city within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.127 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any user found to be violating any provision of this chapter,
wastewater permit, or any order issued hereunder, shall be served by the city
with written notice stating the nature of the violation(s). Within ten days of
the receipt date of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for
the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific
required actions, shall be submitted to the City Administrator. Submission of
this plan in no way relieves the user of potential liability for any violation
occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (B)   If the violations persist or the explanation and/or plan are not
adequate, the city's response shall be more formal and commitments (or
schedules as appropriate) for compliance will be established in an enforceable
document. The enforcement response selected will be escalated if compliance is
not achieved expeditiously after the initial action. A significant
noncompliance as defined in §
51.094, will require a formal enforcement action. The full scale of enforcement
actions will be as detailed in the enforcement response plan.
   (C)   Any user found to be violating any provision of this chapter or a
wastewater permit or order issued hereunder, shall be served by the City
Administrator or their designee with written notice stating the nature of the
violation. The offender shall permanently remedy all violations upon receipt of
this notice. As contained above in this section, the notice may be of several
forms. Also as contained in this subchapter, penalties of various forms may be
levied against users for violations of this chapter. The penalties, if levied,
shall range from publication of violators in the local newspaper to
administrative fines of at least $1,000 per day per violation.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.128 ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.
   Any user who after receiving a notice of violation shall continue to
discharge in violation of this chapter or other pretreatment standards or
requirements or is determined to be a chronic or persistent violator or who is
determined to be a significant violator, shall be ordered to appear before the
city. At the appearances a compliance schedule will be given to the
nonconforming user and an administrative fine assessed. The fine shall be
determined on a case-by-case basis which shall consider the type and severity
of violations, duration of violation, number of violations, severity of impact
on the POTW, impact on human health, users economic benefit from the violation,
history of violations, good faith of the user, and shall be a non-arbitrary but
appropriate amount. The administrative order may take any of the following
three forms:
   (A)   Consent orders. The City Administrator or their designee is hereby
empowered to enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or
other similar documents establishing an agreement with the industrial user
responsible for the noncompliance. Such orders will include specific action to
be taken by the industrial user to correct the noncompliance within a time
period also specified by the order. Consent orders shall have the same force
and effect as orders issued pursuant to division (C) below.
   (B)   Compliance order. When the City Administrator or their designee finds
that an industrial user has violated or continues to violate the chapter or a
permit or order issued thereunder, he may issue an order to the industrial user
responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time
period, sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances have been installed and are
properly operated. Orders may also contain such other requirements as might be
reasonably necessary and appropriate to address the noncompliance, including
the installation of pretreatment technology, additional self-monitoring and
management practices.
   (C)   Cease and desist orders. When the City Administrator finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate this chapter or any permit
or order issued hereunder, the City Administrator may issue an order to cease
and desist all such violations and direct those persons in noncompliance to:
comply forthwith, or take such appropriate remedial or preventative action as
may be needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation,
including halting operations and terminating the discharge.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.129 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The City Administrator or their designee may issue to any user who
causes or contributes to violations of this chapter, wastewater permit or order
issued hereunder, an order to appear and show cause why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be served on the user
specifying the time and place of the hearing to be held by the City
Administrator regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to be
taken, the proposed enforcement action, and directing the user to show cause,
before the City Administrator, why the proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered
or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days before the
hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer of the industrial user.
Whether or not a duly notified industrial user or its representative appears,
immediate enforcement action may be pursued.
   (B)   The city may, itself, conduct the hearing and take the evidence, or
designate a representative to:
      (1)   Issue, in the name of the city notices of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in such hearing;
      (2)   Take the evidence;
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the city for
action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded, will be
made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the usual charges thereof.
   (D)   After the city has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an order to the
user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time
period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices, or other related appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders
and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.130 ADDITIONAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Performance bonds. The City Administrator may decline to reissue a
permit to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of
this chapter or any order or previous permit issued hereunder unless such user
first files with it a satisfactory bond, payable to the city, in a sum not to
exceed a value determined by the City Administrator to be necessary to achieve
consistent compliance.
   (B)   Liability insurance. The City Administrator may decline to reissue a
permit to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of
this chapter or any order or previous permit issued hereunder, unless the
industrial user first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances
sufficient to restore or repair POTW damage caused by its discharge.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.131 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any user violating any of the provision of this chapter or a
wastewater permit order issued hereunder, may be subject to termination of its
authority to discharge sewage into the municipal sewer system. Such termination
may be immediate if necessary for the protection of the POTW. The user may also
have water service terminated.
   (B)   Any user who violated the following conditions of this chapter, or
applicable state or federal regulations, is subject to having his permit
revoked in accordance with the procedures of this chapter.
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of his discharge;
      (2)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.132 LIABILITY.
   Any user violating any of the provision of this chapter, discharge permit or
other order issued hereunder shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation. This civil
liability is as provided by state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.133 MISREPRESENTATION AND FALSIFYING OF DOCUMENTS.
   Any user who knowingly and/or negligently makes any false statements,
representations or certification of any application, record, plan or other
document filed or required pursuant to this chapter or industrial user
discharge permit or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly and/or negligently
renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter,
shall be punished by a fine of at least $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more
than 12 months or by both.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.134 DESTRUCTION OF SEWER SYSTEM OR POTW AND LEGAL ACTION.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the POTW. Any person(s) violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct or
other appropriate charges. It shall be noted that the Clean Water Act does not
require proof of specific intent to obtain conviction.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.135 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes into the
city's wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
federal or state pretreatment requirements or any order of the city, the city
may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the
appropriate court of this jurisdiction.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.136 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this
chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, the City Administrator through
counsel may petition the court for the issuance of a preliminary or permanent
injunction or both (as may be appropriate) which restrains or compels the
activities on the part of the industrial user.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any user who has significantly violated or continues to violate
this chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, may be liable to the city
for a civil penalty of not more than $500 per day plus actual damages incurred
by the POTW per violation per day for as long as the violation continues. Each
day in which such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
In addition to the above described penalty and damages, the City Administrator
may recover reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, court reporter's fees and
other expenses associated with the enforcement activities including sampling
and monitoring expenses.
      (2)   The City Administrator may petition the court to impose, assess and
recover such sums. In determining amount of liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the industrial user's violation, corrective
actions by the industrial user, the compliance history of the user and any
other factor as justice requires.
   (B)   Criminal prosecution. Any user who willfully or negligently violates
any provision of this chapter or any orders or permits issued hereunder shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed
$500 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or both.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 10-17-96)
CHAPTER 52: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
52.01   Owners of dumpsters to keep area free from trash and debris
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Establishment of sanitation franchise, see
T.S.O. IV
§ 52.01 OWNERS OF DUMPSTERS TO KEEP AREA FREE FROM TRASH AND DEBRIS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity within the corporate limits of
the city to dispose of rubbish, trash, weeds or any other debris in the
dumpster of another.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 7-23-98) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity violating this chapter shall be fined $100 for each
violation.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 7-23-98)
CHAPTER 53: NATURAL GAS SYSTEM
Section
   
53.01   Natural gas rate schedule
   
53.02   Natural gas fund
   
53.03   Natural gas meter deposits
   
53.04   Natural gas reconnection and disconnection fees
   
53.05   Billings; delinquency
§ 53.01 NATURAL GAS RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The following rate schedule for the purchase of natural gas is
established as follows:
 
First 1,000 cubic feet (MCF)    $13.26 (minimum bill)
All usage over 1,000 cubic feet $1.326 per 100 cubic feet
 
   (B)   Natural gas rate shall increase by an additional $0.30/MCF plus or
minus the difference between $4.85/MCF (which is the year 2000 gas supply and
transportation cost), and the year 2001 actual gas supply and transportation
contracted purchase price.
      Examples:
      (1)   If the year 2001 gas supply and transportation cost is $5.00/MCF,
then the rate shall be $0.30/MCF plus $0.15/MCF, or a total of $0.45/MCF,
making the year 2001 natural gas rate at $9.55/MCF.
      (2)   If the year 2001 gas supply and transportation cost is $4.50/MCF,
then the rate shall be $0.30/MCF minus $0.35/MCF, or a total of $0.05/MCF
decrease, making the year 2001 natural gas rate at $9.05/MCF.
   (C)   The reconnection fee for restoring of natural gas service shall be
$10.
   (D)   The meter deposit for natural gas service to each location shall be
$50.
(Ord. 97-2, passed - -97; Am. Ord. 00-6, passed 10-19-00; Am. Ord. 07-7, passed
1-17-08; Am. Ord. 08-8, passed 10-16-08)
   (E)   The tap on fee for tapping onto the natural gas distribution system
outside the city limits is $250.
(Ord. 1-89, passed 2-16-89)
   (F)   Customers of natural gas service shall be disconnected if their
account is not paid in full nine days following the date of the delinquent
notice mailed to the customer.
(Ord. 97-2, passed - -97; Am. Ord. 02-5, passed 10-17-02; Am. Ord. 03-3, passed
9-18-03; Am. Ord. 04-4, passed 12-16-04; Am. Ord. 05-5, passed 11-16-05; Am.
Ord. 06-5, passed 1-18-07; Am. Ord. 09-7, passed 10-15-09; Am. Ord. 10-7,
passed 12-14-10; Am. Ord. 12-2, passed 10-18- 12; Am. Ord. 17-3, passed 6-15-
17; Am. Ord. 23-4, passed 6-15-23)
§ 53.02 NATURAL GAS FUND.
   The Natural Gas Fund will annually make a payment to the city’s General Fund
account in lieu of taxes in an amount of 10% of the natural gas system’s net
fixed assets as determined by the annual audit, the amount may be less than the
determined 10% of fixed assets, amount to be determined by the needs if the
fiscal budget, the amount is not to exceed $140,000.
(Res. 5-18-00, passed 5-18-00; Am. Res. 5-20-04, passed 5-20-04; Am. Res. 5-18-
06, passed 5-18-06; Am. Res. 01-17-08, passed 1-17-08)
§ 53.03 NATURAL GAS METER DEPOSITS.
   Any person or entity initiating a natural gas service account with the city
shall pay a $200 natural gas meter deposit, which shall be refundable upon
discontinuance of service, provided said account is paid in full.
(Ord. 00-3, passed 7-20-00)
§ 53.04 NATURAL GAS RECONNECTION AND DISCONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   Any person or entity desiring to have natural gas reconnected and
which account has been paid in full and which account has not been disconnected
for non-payment, shall pay a $10 reconnection fee for property located within
the city or a $15 reconnection fee for property located outside city limits.
Any person or entity desiring to have natural gas disconnected for any period
of time shall pay a $10 disconnection fee for property located within city
limits, or a $15 disconnection fee for property located outside of city limits.
   (B)   Any person or entity desiring to have natural gas reconnected which
has been disconnected for non-payment shall pay a $75 reconnection fee.
   (C)   Any person or entity desiring to have an established natural gas
service relocated or removed on property shall pay a $35 service charge plus
materials for property located within city limits or a $50 service charge plus
materials for property located outside of city limits. Any required repairs of
natural gas leaks which are deemed to have occurred as the result of the
customer's action or inaction shall be charged at the same rate.
(Ord. 00-3, passed 7-20-00; Am. Ord. 07-3, passed 7-19-07)
§ 53.05 BILLINGS; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS DAY. Any day between and including Monday through Friday, but
excluding public holidays.
   (B)   Utility bills will be mailed on the first day of each month unless the
first day of the month falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, in which case
the utility bills will be mailed on the business day immediately preceding.
   (C)   Utility bill balances are due by the fifteenth day of the month.
Payments not received by the fifteenth day of the month shall be deemed
delinquent and a 10% penalty will be assessed to the delinquent account.
   (D)   A delinquent notice will be mailed on the sixteenth day of the month
unless it falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, in which case the notice
will be mailed on the business day immediately following. The delinquent
customer shall have ten days from the date of said delinquent notice to pay the
delinquent balance in full.
   (E)   Any delinquent customer who has not notified Lewisport Municipal
Utilities of his or her or its desire to set up a payment plan or who has not
requested an extension to pay the delinquent balance by the twenty-sixth day of
the month shall be notified by door hanger that he or she or it will have until
noon the following business day to arrange a payment plan or request an
extension or will have services disconnected.
   (F)   Any delinquent customer who has not paid his or her or its account
balance in full or requested and received a payment plan or extension by 12:00
noon on the business day following the notification by door hanger shall have
his or her or its delinquent utility service disconnected.
   (G)   Upon payment of a $75 re-connection fee and the delinquent balance in
full, or the amount due under an approved payment plan, the utility service
will be re-connected.
   (H)   The Mayor, City Manager, or a designated representative shall approve
payment plans, payment extensions, and/or delinquent disconnects.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 4-24-14)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
72.   VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
CHAPTER 70: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Parking in excess of certain amount of time prohibited; towing
authorized
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
§ 70.01 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN AMOUNT OF TIME PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle on any street within the corporate
limits of the city continuously for a period of time for more than seven days.
   (B)   The Police Department, when it observes a vehicle which appears to be
abandoned or inoperative, and the vehicle is parked upon a public way within
the corporate limits, is authorized and directed to make an effort to notify
the owner to remove the vehicle from the public way. In the event the owner
cannot be ascertained, or if the owner is notified and the owner then does not
take any action to remove such vehicle, the Police Department and all members
thereof are hereby authorized to remove and tow away or have removed and towed
away by commercial towing services any car or other vehicle illegally parked in
any place which the Police Department determines to be in violation of this
section.
   (C)   The owner of a vehicle which is removed from a public way pursuant to
division (B) above will be charged for the towing and storing of the vehicle,
said charges to be reasonable or agreed charges. The person who tows the
vehicle and stores same is to be entitled to a statutory lien provided for in
KRS 376.275.
(Ord. 9-72, passed 9-11-72) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle at a greater speed than indicated on
the following streets:
 
Street                 Location                                   Speed Limit
Caroline Street        From Second Street to Third Street         25 m.p.h.
                       Starting at Second Street and circling the
Community Center Drive Lewisport Elementary School around to Pell 25 m.p.h.
                       Street, then westward on Pell Street to
                       Second Street
Second Street          From Market Street to Young Street         25 m.p.h.
 
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of this schedule shall upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100.
(Ord. 1-88, passed 3-30-88)
CHAPTER 72: VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
Section
   
72.01   Operation of golf carts on public roadways
§ 72.01 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON PUBLIC ROADWAYS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GOLF CART. Any self-propelled vehicle that:
         (a)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising
the play of golf, or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
         (b)   Has a minimum of four wheels;
         (c)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than 35 miles per
hour;
         (d)   Is designed to carry not more than six persons, including the
driver;
         (e)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
         (f)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of 1,200 pounds; and
         (g)   Is equipped with the following:
            1.   Headlamps;
            2.   Tail lamps;
            3.   Stop lamps;
            4.   Front and rear turn signals;
            5.   One red reflex reflector on each side as far to the rear as
practicable, and one red reflex reflector on the rear;
            6.   An exterior mirror mounted on the driver's side of the vehicle
and either an exterior mirror mounted on the passenger's side of the vehicle or
an interior mirror;
            7.   A parking brake;
            8.   For each designated seating position, a seatbelt assembly that
conforms to the federal motor vehicle safety standard provided in 49 C.F.R, §
571.209; and
            9.   A horn that meets the requirements of KRS 189.080.
   (B)   A golf cart operated pursuant to this section on a designated public
roadway shall:
      (1)   Be issued a permit for the golf cart by the city;
      (2)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the golf cart is
allowed to be operated on specific roadways within the city; and
      (3)   Be inspected by a certified inspector designated by the Hancock
County Sheriff and certified through the Department of Vehicle Regulation to
ensure that the golf cart complies with the requirements of this section. The
inspection fee under this division (B)(3) shall not exceed $5 with an
additional fee not to exceed $10 per trip charged if it becomes necessary for
the certified inspector to travel to the site of the golf cart rather than
having the golf cart brought to the Sheriff’s inspection area.
   (C)   A person may operate a golf cart on a public roadway pursuant to
division (B) this section if:
      (1)   The posted speed limit of the designated public roadway is 35 miles
per hour or less;
      (2)   The operator of the golf cart does not cross a roadway at an
intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed limit of more
than 35 miles per hour;
      (3)   The operator has a valid operator’s license in his or her
possession;
      (4)   The golf cart is being operated between sunrise and sunset; and
      (5)   The golf cart displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance
with KRS 189.820.
   (D)   A golf cart operating on a public roadway under this section shall be
insured in compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator, and the
proof of insurance shall be inside the golf cart at all times of operation on a
public roadway.
   (E)   Any person operating a golf cart on a public roadway under the
provisions of this section shall be subject to the traffic regulations of KRS
Chapter 189.
   (F)   (1)   The following roadways are designated and open for golf cart
use:
         Emerson Lane, Rachel Court, Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington Avenue,
Holland Avenue, Hillcrest Avenue, Fieldcrest Avenue, Lincoln Road, Morton Lane,
Roberts Road, Meadowlane Drive, Riverview Drive, Taylor Avenue, Market Street,
Pell Street to Morton Lane, Old Mill Road, Homer Young Street, Curtis Street,
Melanie Drive, Robin Circle, Bob White Way, Sands Drive, Toler Avenue, Williams
Avenue, Little Avenue, Beech Avenue, Fifth Street, Fourth Street to Bluegrass
Drive, Third Street, Second Street, First Street, Community Center Drive, New
Front Street, Caroline Street, High Street, Nancy Avenue, Lake Street,
Bluegrass Drive, Mockingbird Lane, Eagle Way and Sixth Street.
      (2)   Golf cart use is prohibited on all other roadways.
   (G)   A golf cart operating on a public roadway designated by the city under
this section is not considered to be a motor vehicle and is exempt from:
      (1)   Title requirements of KRS 186.020;
      (2)   Vehicle registration requirements of KRS 186.050; and
      (3)   Emissions compliance certificates pursuant to KRS 224.20-720.
   (H)   The Transportation Cabinet may prohibit the operation of a golf cart
on a public roadway designated under this section that crosses a state-
maintained highway under its jurisdiction if it determines that such
prohibition is necessary in the interest of public safety.
   (I)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a golf cart that is
not used on a public roadway except to cross a roadway while following a golf
cart path on a golf course.
(Ord. 13-3, passed 8-22-13; Am. Ord. 19-06, passed 12-12-19)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   FIRE PREVENTION
         
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
92.   NUISANCES
         
93.   VICIOUS OR BARKING DOGS
         
94.   PUBLIC SPACES AND FACILITIES
CHAPTER 90: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Open Burning
   
90.01   Burning trash or debris without permission prohibited
   
90.02   Fire Chief may issue permission to burn
   
90.03   Bonfire in streets, damaging public property
Maintenance and Repair of Sidewalks
   
91.10   City and property owner to maintain sidewalks
   
91.11   Sidewalk and driveway apron specifications
   
91.12   Indemnification of city
 
   
90.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 90.01 BURNING TRASH OR DEBRIS WITHOUT PERMISSION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any resident, owner, occupant or person within the
corporate limits of the city to burn trash and other debris thereon or within
the city limits without having obtained permission from the Chief of the Fire
Department or his designee. However, leaves and tree limbs may be burned
without permission from the Fire Chief or his designee provided said leaves and
tree limbs are burned in a safe manner.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 12-18-95)
§ 90.02 FIRE CHIEF MAY ISSUE PERMISSION TO BURN.
   Upon application by the owner or occupant of any real property in the city
upon which is located any debris or any other similar material which cannot be
disposed of reasonably other than by burning, the Chief of the Fire Department
or his designee may issue permission to the applicant authorizing the burning
of such debris or other similar material on said real estate, subject to the
provisions hereinafter set forth:
   (A)   Such permission shall be issued only after a determination by the
issuer that such burning shall not endanger life or property and shall not
constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   Such permission shall set forth the name of the person or entity to
whom the permit is issued, the address of the real property and shall prescribe
the time of burning and any conditions, which in the determination of the
issuer, are necessary to protect life and property and avoid any public
nuisance.
   (C)   If in the determination of the Chief of the Fire Department or his
designee a burning for which permission has been issued hereunder shall
endanger life or property or shall become or constitute a public nuisance, the
Chief or his designee may revoke such permission immediately and such fire
shall be immediately extinguished by the applicant.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 12-18-95)
§ 90.03 BONFIRE IN STREETS, DAMAGING PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall kindle, build or maintain any bonfire or rubbish fire nor
authorize any such fire to be kindled, built or maintained in or on any street,
alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter or set any fire which causes damage to city
property or other public thoroughfare of the city without permission from the
Chief of the Fire Department or his designee.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 12-18-95)
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS
§ 91.10 CITY AND PROPERTY OWNER TO MAINTAIN SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each and every person owning, possessing or
occupying lots or real estate fronting and abutting on any public sidewalk in
the city to keep the sidewalk free from hazards, trash, weeds, grass clippings
and debris so far as the same so fronts or abuts upon his or her lots or real
estate. Any snow and/or ice accumulations, if removed, shall be removed by the
abutting property owner.
   (B)   Apart from the owner/occupant's responsibility to keep his, her or its
sidewalk(s) free from hazards, trash, weeds, grass clippings and debris as
required by paragraph (A), above, the Mayor shall decide if, when and how the
public sidewalks located within the city rights-of-ways shall be maintained,
repaired and/or replaced. The Mayor may seek the advice of the City Council,
the Public Works Committee, the Superintendent of Public Works and/or the City
Manager in determining if, when and how the public sidewalks located within the
city rights-of-ways shall be maintained, repaired and/or replaced; and whether
to direct the City Public Works Department to do the work or to contract with a
qualified contractor.
   (C)   When the city determines to remove and replace a street as a total
street reconstruction, and the existing sidewalks are in disrepair, the Mayor
shall determine whether or not to repair or replace the existing sidewalks
along with the street reconstruction. However, if there are no existing
sidewalks, the city shall be under no obligation to install sidewalks, even if
there is a total street reconstruction.
(Ord. 21-2, passed 4-15-21)
§ 91.11 SIDEWALK AND DRIVEWAY APRON SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The sub-grade will be brought to an even, compact surface, four inches
below the proposed finished surface of the pavement. Soft, spongy earth,
vegetable, or other perishable matter will be removed, and the space filled
with gravel or broken stone, thoroughly compacted by ramming.
   (B)   Concrete thickness shall be four inches for sidewalks and six inches
for driveways.
   (C)   The surface shall be spread and floated smooth, and troweled to a hard
smooth surface. No sidewalk or driveway surface painting or color coding will
be acceptable to the city.
   (D)   The surface of the pavement, before the mortar sets, will be cut into
blocks with a wedge-shaped tool, leaving a groove 5/8 inch in depth, 1/8 inch
at the bottom and 1.4 at the top. The top edge of the groove shall be slightly
rounded.
   (E)   No sidewalk shall be constructed less than four feet wide, but shall
be constructed to conform to widths of existing walks which are being replaced.
   (F)   All utility meter boxes, utility valves, or other fixtures shall be
flush with the pavement.
   (G)   Street gutters must not be obstructed while work is in progress.
   (H)   All old material taken from sidewalks and all surplus material from
the work must be immediately removed.
   (I)   Where the curbing needs replacing, it will be done in a manner and
with such material as is required by the Street Improvement Specifications of
the city.
   (J)   Any property owner who desires to replace a driveway curb and apron
shall do so at his expense and such replacement shall in no way impede or
impair the flow of water and drainage of same within the street curb system.
(Ord. 21-2, passed 4-15-21)
§ 91.12 INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY.
   Each owner as described in §
91.10 shall indemnify and hold harmless the city from all claims or losses by
or to persons or property of others caused by said owner’s failure to repair,
reconstruct, and keep in good order and in reasonably safe condition all such
sidewalks abutting and fronting his property upon any street or roadway within
the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 21-2, passed 4-15-21)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense and shall
be punished by fine of up to $100 for each offense.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 12-18-95)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Drainpipes
   
91.01   Installation on public easements; driveways
   
91.02   Installation costs other than driveways
Maintenance and Repair of Sidewalks
   
91.10   City and property owner to maintain sidewalks
   
91.11   Sidewalk and driveway apron specifications
   
91.12   Indemnification of city
 
   
91.99   Penalty
DRAINPIPES
§ 91.01 INSTALLATION ON PUBLIC EASEMENTS; DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The city may install drainpipes only on public easements.
   (B)   (1)   The property owners shall be responsible for the cost of
stormwater drainpipes and these pipes shall be installed according to city
specifications.
      (2)   The city shall be responsible for:
         (a)   The surveying costs necessary for the installation of the
drainpipes; and
         (b)   The installation and covering of drainpipes with rock.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 91.02 INSTALLATION COSTS OTHER THAN DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   If the property owner installs drainpipes, the installation shall be
according to city specifications. The property owner shall be responsible for
all costs associated with the proper installation of drainpipes. These costs
shall include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Drainpipes;
      (2)   Surveying;
      (3)   Cover material; and
      (4)   Labor (if the labor is not performed by the city).
   (B)   The city may install drainpipes at the request of the property owner
when the installation would enhance or improve drainage. However, the property
owner shall be responsible for all costs. These costs shall include, but are
not limited to:
      (1)   Drainpipes;
      (2)   Surveying; and
      (3)   Cover material.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Maintenance of rubbish, weeds, stagnant water and the like on vacant
lots or other premises
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 MAINTENANCE OF RUBBISH, WEEDS, STAGNANT WATER AND THE LIKE ON VACANT
LOTS OR OTHER PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain any vacant lot or other premises within the
corporate limits of the city on which rubbish is allowed to accumulate, weeds
or long grass is allowed to grow, or any water is allowed to collect and be
stagnant in which mosquitoes breed, or are likely to breed, and any such
premises or vacant lot on which such rubbish, weeds, long grass or stagnant
water is allowed to remain is hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to
the health of the people in the city.
(Ord. 10-76, passed 10-21-76)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, owner, corporation or company violating §
92.01 or any part thereof shall be fined $100 for each violation thereof, or be
required to pay the cost for the removal or termination of the nuisance, and
the city shall have a lien against the property for the cost or fine. Written
notice shall be given to any person, owner, corporation or company as to any
violation. Each 15-day violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 10-76, passed 10-21-76)
CHAPTER 93: VICIOUS OR BARKING DOGS
Section
   
93.01   Vicious dogs prohibited in city
   
93.02   Howling, barking dogs disturbing neighborhood prohibited
   
93.03   Running at large prohibited; leash required
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 VICIOUS DOGS PROHIBITED IN CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep, within the corporate
limits of the city, any dog with a vicious propensity. It shall be prima facie
evidence of viciousness for any dog to bite or attack any person off the
owner's own premises.
(Ord. 05-7, passed 1-19-06) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 HOWLING, BARKING DOGS DISTURBING NEIGHBORHOOD PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in charge of a dog to suffer or
permit on his or her premises the loud or frequent barking, howling or yelping
of such dog, so as to annoy or disturb the neighborhood.
(Ord. 05-7, passed 1-19-06) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED; LEASH REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in charge of a dog to permit or
allow such dog to run at large in the city, or to permit such dog to be on the
streets of the city unless such dog is on a leash or otherwise under the
absolute control of the owner or his or her agent.
(Ord. 05-7, passed 1-19-06) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction therefor, shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $200 for each offense, and each day the
violation continues shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 05-7, passed 1-19-06)
CHAPTER 94: PUBLIC SPACES AND FACILITIES
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Application review
   
94.03   Use of public spaces and facilities
   
94.04   Application
   
94.05   Review by the Police Chief
   
94.06   Revocation
   
94.07   Appeals
   
94.08   Time allotment
   
94.09   Exceptions
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote and regulate the use of public
spaces and facilities within the portion of the city and any other public space
or facility owned by the city which is not subject to a lease for a term longer
than one year (hereinafter referred to as "the city"), consistent with the
dedicated uses and maintenance of such public properties, the preservation of
public safety, lawful commerce, and rights of access and traverse in
preservation of natural and historic environments, and the protection of the
well-being, peace, privacy, and good order necessary to the free enjoyment by
citizens of the rights to private property and personal pursuits. Furthermore,
it is the specific intent of the city in enacting this chapter to regulate only
the time, place, and manner of events and not the content or message of any
speech or expressive conduct.
(Ord. 10-2, passed 5-20-10)
§ 94.02 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   (A)   The City of Lewisport Police Chief (hereinafter referred to as the
"Police Chief") shall be vested with the responsibility of receiving
applications for and acceding to or denying permits for conduct in public
spaces and facilities (hereinafter referred to as the "event") in the city.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall determine whether to permit or to refuse to
permit any such events in or about public spaces solely on the basis of the
factors or combination of factors set out hereinafter, and in light of a
presumption that all events not inconsistent with the goals of this chapter
hereinbefore enumerated shall be permitted at all reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 10-2, passed 5-20-10)
§ 94.03 USE OF PUBLIC SPACES AND FACILITIES.
   No person shall, without first being permitted by the Police Chief after
application made according to the requirements set out hereinafter:
   (A)   Conduct a public assembly, parade, demonstration, or other like event,
either fixed or processional, involving more than two individuals for a common
purpose, due to either prior planning or spontaneous gathering, on, over, upon,
or burdening the public properties of the city, or utilizing the facilities
thereon, which has the effect, intent, purpose, or propensity to attract the
notice of people who are not a part of such public assembly, parade,
demonstration, or event;
   (B)   Circulate or distribute any leaflets, handbills, notices, pamphlets,
books, documents, or papers of any kind on any public property or property
owned by the city, except during those events regulated or sponsored by the
city;
   (C)   Bring, land, or cause to ascend or descend or alight any airplane,
helicopter, flying machine, balloon, parachute, or other apparatus for aviation
on, over, or upon the public properties of the city, or facilities thereon;
   (D)   Bring a non-domestic, supervised, and controlled or restrained animal
for limited non-commercial or promotional purposes on, over, or upon the public
properties of the city, or facilities thereon;
   (E)   Station or erect any building, stand, bandstand, stage, tower,
scaffold, sound stage, platform, rostrum or other structure on, over, or upon
the public properties of the city;
   (F)   Create or emit any electronically amplified sound, on, over, or upon
the public properties of the city, except from a radio, recorder or other
device, which is possessed and used by an individual for his/her own enjoyment
and is operated in such a manner so as to not interfere with the use and
enjoyment by any other person; or
   (G)   Conduct any exhibit, fair, circus, or radio or television broadcast,
other than a news transmission on, over, or upon the public properties of the
city; or station or use any electrical or electronic device or equipment that
would require outdoor auxiliary power;
   (H)   Use, ignite, or fire any fireworks, explosive, firecrackers,
sparklers, glow worms, noise makers, poppers, or snappers on, over, or upon the
public properties of the city; or
   (I)   Discharge any firearm, bow and arrow, spring gun, air rifle,
slingshot, or any other device which discharges a projectile by any means, on,
over, or upon the public properties of the city.
(Ord. 10-2, passed 5-20-10)
§ 94.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Within no less than 14 calendar days prior to an event, the person or
persons associated in fact, whether or not a legally recognized entity, who
wish to conduct an event requiring a permit, as set forth herein, shall apply
to the Police Chief for such permit. Such application shall at a minimum
include:
      (1)   The name, address, gender, and birth date of the applicant. If the
applicant is an association of persons in fact or in law, the application shall
contain a description of the entity; the name of said entity, if named; the
registered or recognized address of the entity, if any; the name of the person
making the application on behalf of or as a representative of said entity; such
person's relationship to said entity; and some demonstration or recitation of
the authority of the person making the application to act on behalf of the
entity.
      (2)   A plan for review by the Police Chief, which plan will include:
         a.   The anticipated number of persons participating in the event;
         b.   The date or dates of the event;
         c.   The hours of each day the event will be conducted;
         d.   The exact location of said event, or, if the event is
processional or mobile, the route of the event;
         e.   Whether sound amplification equipment will be employed;
         f.   Whether artificial lighting will be employed;
         g.   Whether temporary static structures will be constructed or
employed, whether vehicles will be employed, and if so, a description of same
sufficient to permit the Police Chief to evaluate the permitting factors set
out hereinafter;
         h.   A description of the anticipated need for safety, police,
medical, sanitation, and other required personnel and equipment, with the
anticipated needed numbers and posting by location and time of such personnel
and equipment;
         i.   A description of provisions necessary to the safety and welfare
of the participants in the event and members of the public in the area where
the event will be conducted and routes of access thereto and therefrom;
         j.   Whether the event will require that the public spaces or
facilities to be used or burdened, or the routes and means of access thereto
and therefrom, be temporarily diverted from their dedicated or customary uses,
or the public or private users thereof be diverted or excluded from, or limited
in their use or enjoyment of, or their access to or through, said spaces or
facilities, before, during, or after the event; and
         k.   Whether a sign(s) or any other kind of display, post, placard, or
banner will be used, and if used, the size, material, and components of the
sign(s), and whether such will be handheld or not; and
         l.   Whether the event will use, ignite, light, discharge, or fire any
fireworks, explosives, firecrackers, sparklers, glowworms, noise makers,
poppers, or snappers or any device which discharges a projectile by any means,
and if so, a description of the contemplated and proposed use of same
sufficient to permit the Police Chief to evaluate the permitting factors set
out hereinafter.
      (3)   A disclosure as to whether the applicant or entity for whom the
application is being made has in the past conducted or participated in an event
of a substantially similar nature to that which is the subject to the instant
application, and, if so, where and when such prior event(s) took place, and
whether as a result of such event(s) the applicant or entity became the
subject, whether or not then operating under the same name, as plaintiff or
defendant, of any legal action, civil, criminal, or administrative.
      (4)   A disclosure as to whether the applicant or entity for whom the
application is being made has defaulted upon or is in arrears as to any
judgment civil, criminal, or administrative rendered against the applicant or
entity, or is in violation of any injunction or restraining order entered
against the applicant or entity, whether or not then operating under the same
name, as a result of participation in any prior event(s) of a substantially
similar nature to that which is the subject to the instant application, and if
so, a description of said judgment or order and an explanation for non-
compliance.
      (5)   Payment of rent for the property being requested if the city has an
established fee for its use. Payment shall be in the form of cash, certified
funds, or U.S. postal money orders. In lieu of submitting payment with an
application, payment may be made at any time up to 5:00 p.m. on the day of the
event so long as applicant gives a statement of assurance to this effect.
   (B)   If, as a direct consequence of exigent, unanticipated, or other
circumstances beyond the control of the applicant, applicant is unable to file
an application not less than 14 calendar days before an event, nothing herein
shall be construed as precluding the filing of an application at a later time,
but in such case the time limits for review of an application by the Police
Chief and for review of an appeal of a denial of a permit to the City
Administrator shall remain the same.
   (C)   Where an event conducted on, over, upon, or burdening public
properties, or employing the facilities thereon, which is also to substantially
involve or take place partly or wholly upon private property with the consent
of the owner(s) thereof, such owner(s) or their authorized representatives must
join as an applicant for any permit for such event.
   (D)   There shall be paid at the time of the filing of the application for a
permit a fee of $25.
(Ord. 10-2, passed 5-20-10)
§ 94.05 REVIEW BY THE POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   Within 14 working days of the receipt of a fully completed, executed,
and filed application, the Police Chief shall review the application in light
of all of the contents thereof and the goals, intentions, and presumptions of
this chapter as set out hereinbefore, and render a decision and communicate
same to applicant, either permitting the event as planned or denying a permit
for same. If the permit is denied, the Police Chief shall provide the applicant
in writing a statement of the reasons therefor. (First class mail to the
address provided by applicant, postmarked no more than 14 working days after
receipt of the fully completed, executed, and filed application, shall be
sufficient for this purpose, though not the exclusive means of notice.)
   (B)    Nothing in this process shall prevent the Police Chief, at his/her
sole option and within the 14 working day period for approval or denial, to
confer with applicant with respect to modifications of applicant's plan for the
event, and amend the application to reflect such modifications if agreed to by
applicant. However, applicant may neither supplement nor amend its application
within said 14 working day period except at the invitation of the Police Chief,
Any attempt to do so sua sponte shall be deemed a separate and new application.
   (C)   The Police Chief may deny the application for permit upon any of the
following reasons or combination of reasons:
      (1)   The application does not contain all required information or
materials, or the information set out in the application is so incomplete,
vague, or ambiguous as to prevent full and proper review by the Police Chief;
      (2)   The application contains material omissions, falsehoods, or
misrepresentations;
      (3)   The applicant, or entity represented by applicant, is incompetent
to contract, sue, or be sued;
      (4)   The person applying lacks authority to represent the entity for
which the application is made;
      (5)   The applicant or entity represented by applicant has on prior
occasions damaged public property, or has not paid in full for such damages, or
is in arrears as to any judgment civil, criminal, or administrative rendered
against the applicant or entity, or is in violation of any injunction or
restraining order entered against the applicant or entity, whether under the
same name or another;
      (6)   The applicant or entity represented by applicant has on prior
occasions violated permitting ordinances in connection with events of a
substantially similar nature;
      (7)   The plan of the event as proposed is likely to present a danger to
the health or safety of participants in the event or other members of the
public (though not through the agency of any predicted reaction by onlookers or
members of the public);
      (8)   The plan of the event as proposed is likely to restrict and/or
congest traffic (vehicular or pedestrian) on any of the public roads, right of
ways, sidewalks, or waterways in the immediate vicinity of such event;
      (9)   The plan of the event as proposed is likely to cause a disturbance
of the peace, or is likely to burden lawful commerce in the area at the time of
the proposed event, or is likely to intrude upon the privacy or property of
citizens in the area of the proposed event;
      (10)   The plan of the event as proposed includes activities which are
prohibited by laws of the United States, the State of Kentucky, the County of
Hancock, Kentucky or ordinances of the City of Lewisport, Kentucky, or
activities which constitute nuisance or tortious conduct with respect to public
or private property or persons;
      (11)   The plan of the event as proposed would conflict with previously
planned programs or events organized and conducted by the city and previously
scheduled for the same time and place;
      (12)   The plan of the event as proposed is prohibited by or is
inconsistent with the classifications and uses of the proposed or desired
location; or
      (13)   A fully executed prior application for permit has been or will be
granted to a prior applicant authorizing uses or activities which do not
reasonably permit multiple occupancy of that particular space;
      (14)   The plan of the event as proposed includes the use of sign(s),
display(s), post(s), or placard(s), banner(s) which exceed two feet by three
feet in size, are made of a material other than paper, cardboard, poster board,
or foam, are attached or affixed to any wooden, plastic, metal, or other type
of support, or are draped or affixed to any city property, including, but
limited to, the ground, trees, and buildings within the city.
   (D)   It is the specific intent of the city in enacting this chapter to
regulate only the time, place and manner of events and not to regulate the
content or message of any speech or expressive conduct. The factors enumerated
within this chapter, which we find express and support the substantial and
compelling interests of this governing body in the preservation of the rights
and liberties of its citizens and the safety, health, and good order of its
society, are the only basis upon which the Police Chief shall decide to issue
or deny a permit applied for hereunder and no such decision shall be made or
justified based upon the anticipated or predicted content of the speech or
expressive conduct of any applicant.
(Ord. 10-2, passed 5-20-10)
§ 94.06 REVOCATION.
   (A)   For events that have been granted a permit or events that do not
require a permit, the Police Department shall have the authority to terminate
an event at any time, or prevent its initiation, should traffic, weather, or
other conditions develop which present an imminent danger to those
participating in the event or to the public at large. If an event is permitted
and is terminated pursuant to this division, the permit shall be revoked for
that day only.
   (B)   The Police Department shall have the authority to terminate the event
at any time or prevent its initiation should any consideration or combination
of considerations enumerated herein as a ground for denial of a permit arise or
first become apparent to the Police Department after the grant of a permit. If
an event is terminated pursuant to this division, the permit shall be
permanently revoked.
   (C)   If in preparation for or after the start of an event for which a
permit has been issued, participants in said event violate the terms of the
permit or deviate in material fashion from the plan submitted in the
application for the permit, the Police Department shall have the authority to
terminate the event at any time or prevent its initiation. If an event is
terminated pursuant to this division, the permit shall be permanently revoked.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the terms of the permit
or to deviate from the plan submitted in the application for the permit.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons who have been
permitted to conduct an event to remain on the permitted location or facility,
after an event, permitted or otherwise, has been terminated pursuant to this
section.
(Ord. 10-2, passed 5-20-10)
§ 94.07 APPEALS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of any decision by the Police Chief denying an
application an applicant may, within five calendar days, file an appeal of said
denial with the City Administrator, which appeal shall be in writing and sent
to the City Administrator by certified U.S. mail or hand delivery.
   (B)   The written appeal must state succinctly the grounds upon which it is
asserted that the determination should be modified or reversed and shall be
accompanied by copies of the application for permit, the written notice of
determination to which appeal is being made, and any other papers relevant to
the denial.
   (C)   Within seven calendar days of the receipt of a written appeal, the
City Administrator shall set a hearing date. The City Administrator shall cause
notice of the hearing to be served upon the applicant by certified U.S. mail.
Such notice shall include the date, time, and location of the hearing.
   (D)   At the hearing, all parties shall be provided a fair and impartial
hearing and shall be allowed to produce any and all evidence concerning the
appeal.
   (E)   Within seven calendar days after the conclusion of the hearing, the
City Administrator shall make a written decision on the appeal, which shall
affirm, modify, or reverse the decision being appealed. The notice of the
decision shall be sent to the applicant at the address set forth on the
application for permit by certified U.S. mail and shall set forth the reasons
for the decision.
   (F)   The decision of the City Administrator shall be binding on all
parties, subject to the right of appeal as provided by law.
(Ord. 10-2, passed 5-20-10)
§ 94.08 TIME ALLOTMENT.
   At or prior to the expiration of the time allotted and permitted for an
event, the permitted person or persons shall have completely vacated the
permitted location or facility so as to allow any subsequent permittee to
occupy and conduct an event at said location without interference or delay.
(Ord. 10-2, passed 5-20-10)
§ 94.09 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to any of the following:
   (A)   A governmental agency, including its employees or officials, acting
within the scope of its functions or conducting official governmental business;
   (B)   Uses, activities, or events being conducted on the public properties
of the city, or the facilities thereon, that do not have the effect, intent,
purpose, or propensity to attract the notice of people who are not a part of
such use, activity, or event shall not require a permit hereunder, except that
any use, activity, or event on the public properties of the city, or the
facilities thereon, that is otherwise prohibited or made unlawful by the laws
of the United States, the Commonwealth of Kentucky, or other ordinances of the
County of Hancock, Kentucky or the City of Lewisport, Kentucky shall remain
prohibited or unlawful;
   (C)   Events that are sponsored by the city within the scope of its
functions;
   (D)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, provided that such conduct is under the immediate
direction and supervision of the proper school authorities; and
   (E)   Funeral processions.
(Ord. 10-2, passed 5-20-10)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whenever in this chapter any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense, or whenever herein the doing of an act is required or
the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, the violation of such
provision shall be an ordinance violation punishable by a fine of at least
$500, not to exceed $1,000, or by imprisonment of at least 24 hours, not to
exceed 60 days, or both. Any person who violates this chapter may be subject to
immediate arrest. The imposition of a penalty under the provisions of this
section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit issued pursuant to this
chapter.
(Ord. 10-2, passed 5-20-10)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
         
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
         
112.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Application and issuance
   
110.04   Standards for issuance
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License shall be carried
   
110.07   Prohibited practices
   
110.08   Exceptions
   
110.09   Duration of license
   
110.10   Exclusion by residents
   
110.11   Revocation procedure
   
110.12   Appeal procedure
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter the terms defined in this section have the
meanings ascribed to them:
   PEDDLER. Any person with no fixed place of business who goes from house to
house, from place to place, or from street to street, carrying or transporting
goods, wares, or merchandise and offering or exposing the same for sale, or
making sales and deliveries to purchaser.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who goes from house to house, from place to place, or
from street to street soliciting or taking or attempting to take orders for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, including books, periodicals, magazines, or
personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person, firm or corporation who engages temporarily
in the business of selling and delivering goods, wares, or merchandise within
the city, and who, in the furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or
occupies any building, structure, vacant lot, motor vehicle, trailer, or
railroad car.
(Ord. 03-6, passed 12-18-03)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant shall sell or offer for sale
any goods, wares, or merchandise within the city unless a license therefor
shall first be secured as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 03-6, passed 12-18-03) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   Application for such license shall be made to the City Clerk on a form
supplied by the city. The application shall state:
   (A)   The name, address, date of birth and social security number of the
applicant and of all persons associated with him or her in his or her business.
   (B)   The type of business for which the license is desired.
   (C)   In case of transient merchants, the place where the business is to be
carried on.
   (D)   The length of time for which the license is desired.
   (E)   A general description of the thing or things to be sold.
   (F)   The place of residence of the applicant for the five years next
preceding the date of application. Every application shall be accompanied by a
$50 application fee, which amount shall be credited on the license fee if the
license is granted. If the license is denied, the application fee is non-
refundable. Every application shall bear the written approval of the Police
Department or Mayor after an investigation of the applicant's business
reputation and moral character.
(Ord. 03-6, passed 12-18-03) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, the following will constitute tangible evidence and valid reasons
for disapproval of an application if the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
(Ord. 03-6, passed 12-18-03)
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   A license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall not authorize
any person or persons, except the identical person or persons named in said
license, to engage in business thereunder, and such license shall not be
transferable.
(Ord. 03-6, passed 12-18-03) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE SHALL BE CARRIED.
   Every person licensed under this chapter shall have with him or her while
engaged in such business the license received by him or her from the City Clerk
and shall produce the same at the request of any city official or at the
request of any individual within the city to whom he or she is exhibiting his
or her goods or selling or attempting to sell same.
(Ord. 03-6, passed 12-18-03) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   No person licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall, within the
city, call attention to his or her business nor to the goods, wares or
merchandise which he or she is selling or offering for sale by crying them out,
by blowing a horn, by ringing a bell or by any loud or unusual noise.
(Ord. 03-6, passed 12-18-03) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to sales made by commercial travelers or
selling agents in the usual course of business with bona fide dealers, nor
sales conducted pursuant to statute or by order of any court, nor to bona fide
auction sales conducted by an auctioneer duly licensed under the statute or by
order of any court, nor to bona fide auction sales conducted by an auctioneer
duly licensed under the statutes of the State of Kentucky, nor to persons
selling or peddling the products of the farm or garden cultivated by him or
her.
   (B)   In addition, this chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Solicitation for any school sponsored project;
      (2)   Solicitation for any bona fide non-profit organization or bona fide
civic organization, or to any bona fide charitable organization;
      (3)   Merchants approved by the Heritage Committee for the Heritage
Festival; and any other city-sponsored events.
(Ord. 03-6, passed 12-18-03)
§ 110.09 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be issued or granted for a period of more than one year.
(Ord. 03-6, passed 12-18-03)
§ 110.10 EXCLUSION BY RESIDENTS.
   Any resident of the city who wishes to exclude peddlers or solicitors from
premises occupied by him or her may place upon or near the usual entrance to
such premises a printed placard or sign bearing the following notice: "Peddlers
and Solicitors Prohibited." Such placard shall be at least 3-3/4 inches long
and 3-3/4 inches wide and the printing thereon shall not be smaller than 48-
point type. No peddler shall enter in or upon any premises, or attempt to enter
in or upon any premises, where a placard or sign is placed and maintained. No
person other than the person occupying such premises shall remove, injure or
deface such placard or sign.
(Ord. 03-6, passed 12-18-03) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards set out above. Notice
of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting forth specifically
the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice
shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known address, at least ten
days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Ord. 03-6, passed 12-18-03)
§ 110.12 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by this decision shall have the right to appeal
to the legislative body. The appeal shall be taken by filing with the
legislative body, within 14 days after notice of the decision has been mailed
to such person's last known address, a written statement setting forth the
grounds for appeal. The legislative body shall set the time and place for a
hearing, and notice for such hearing and such notice shall be mailed to the
licensee at his or her last known address at least ten days prior to the date
set for the hearing.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
(Ord. 03-6, passed 12-18-03)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a punishable violation and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500 or be
imprisoned, for a period not exceeding 90 days or be both so fined and
imprisoned. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to be continued
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates any other provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day's violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 03-6, passed 12-18-03)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Short title
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Scope
   
111.04   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
111.05   Solicitation of sales through distribution of printed material
   
111.06   Incentives promoting sales of alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
111.07   Books and records
   
111.08   Hours permitted and prohibited; Sunday sales
   
111.09   Permitting intoxicated persons on licensed premises
   
111.10   Opening and consumption of alcoholic beverages on licensed premises
   
111.11   Prohibition of nude or nearly nude activities
Licenses
   
111.25   Required
   
111.26   License application
   
111.27   Application fee
   
111.28   Form of license
   
111.29   Conditions for issuance; certain conduct and activities prohibited
   
111.30   Compliance and payment of delinquent taxes; prerequisite to issuance
of renewal of license
   
111.31   Regulatory license fee
   
111.32   Expiration date; date fees due and payable
   
111.33   Fees generally
   
111.34   Special temporary licenses
   
111.35   Lost or destroyed licenses
   
111.36   No transfer or assignment of license without authorization prohibited
   
111.37   Mandatory responsible beverage service training; standards for
certification
   
111.38   Revocation or suspension of license
Entertainment Destination Center
   
111.50   Geographical boundaries and licensing
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Alcoholic Beverage
Control Ordinance” of the City of Lewisport.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases used in this chapter, unless the context requires
otherwise, shall have the same meanings as set forth in Chapters 241, 242, 243
and 244 of the Kentucky Revised Statutes and Title 804, Kentucky Administrative
Regulations, Chapter 1, et seq., as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.03 SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be construed to apply to the sale, transportation,
storage, advertising and trafficking of malt beverages, distilled spirits and
wine where the context permits such application.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall exempt or exonerate an owner,
proprietor, employee or person in charge of any licensed premises in the city,
where alcoholic beverages are sold, from the restrictions, requirements and
penalties of any other ordinance or ordinances of the city or of any statutes
or administrative regulations of the state relating to the manufacture, sale,
transportation, storage, advertising or trafficking of alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.04 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Establishment of office. There is hereby established the office of
“Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator.”
   (B)   Appointment. The City Manager shall appoint an Alcoholic Beverage
Control Administrator. The Administrator may be removed from office at any
time, with or without cause, by the City Manager.
   (C)   Compensation. The compensation of the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator shall be established by the City Manager, with the approval of
the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Oath. The Administrator, before entering upon the duties of the
office, shall take the oath required of public officers.
   (E)   Duties of Administrator.  
      (1)   The functions of the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
shall be the same with respect to the city licenses and regulations as the
functions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board of the Commonwealth with
respect to state licenses and regulations.
      (2)   The Administrator shall perform all duties and functions within the
boundaries of Lewisport authorized and directed by KRS 241.190, and may adopt
and promulgate any and al! forms, rules and regulations reasonable and
necessary to carry out the duties of the office. No rules or regulations
adopted by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator may be less stringent
than the corresponding statutes relating to alcoholic beverage control, or than
regulations adopted by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board. No
regulation of the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall become
effective until it has first been approved by the City Manager.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19; Am. Ord. 20-1, passed 2-20-20)
§ 111.05 SOLICITATION OF SALES THROUGH DISTRIBUTION OF PRINTED MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee, its employees, contractors or agents to
solicit the sale of alcoholic beverages in person and through the distribution
of flyers, circulars, cards or other printed media within the city; or engage
in any other solicitation or advertising prohibited by KRS 244.280 and Kentucky
Administrative Regulations 804 KAR (Chapters 1 and 2) as amended.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.06 INCENTIVES PROMOTING SALES OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any retail licensee under this chapter to give away
or offer to give glasses, mugs, tee-shirts, posters or any other tangible item
of value as an incentive, inducement, premium or prize, intended to promote the
sale of alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19; Am. Ord. 20-1, passed 2-20-20)
§ 111.07 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain upon the licensed
premises adequate books and records of all transactions involved in the sale of
alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and regulations of
the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board. Such books and records shall be
available at all reasonable times for inspection by the City Alcoholic Beverage
Control Administrator or any of his or her authorized representatives.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.08 HOURS PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED; SUNDAY SALES.
   (A)   All premises for which a license has been granted by the Commonwealth
and the city, to sell distilled spirits and wine and/or malt beverages, may
remain open for business on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and
Saturday, from 6:00 a.m. until 1:00 a.m. the following day (prevailing time).
   (B)   All premises for which a license has been granted by the Commonwealth
and the city, to sell distilled spirits and wine and/or malt beverages, may
remain open for business on Sunday, from 11:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m, the
following day (prevailing time), provided however, in years in which New Year's
Eve falls on a Sunday, licensees may remain open and alcoholic beverages for
which the licensee is licensed to sell may be sold until 2:00 a.m. on Monday
January 1.
   (C)   Premises may remain open for business during hours in which alcoholic
beverages are not allowed to be sold, so long as the licensee keeps all
distilled spirits, wine and malt beverages in a locked or closed off area.
   (D)   No alcoholic beverages of any kind may be sold on any other date, time
or occasion when prohibited by federal or state law.
   (E)   In addition to required state licenses, all licensees desiring to sell
distilled spirits and wine by the drink on Sunday within the time prescribed
hereinabove, must purchase the appropriate licenses from the city, through the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, for the Sunday sales, as required
herein.
   (F)   Rebuttable presumption. If any distilled spirits, wine or malt
beverages are kept on the outside of the locked and closed-off department of
any licensed premises during any period of time in which the licensee is
prohibited by law from selling distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages, a
rebuttable presumption shall arise that such distilled spirits, wine or malt
beverages were kept on the outside of the locked and closed-off department with
the intention and for the purpose of sale in violation of the law and shall be
grounds for revocation or suspension of the license.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19; Am. Ord. 20-1, passed 2-20-20)
§ 111.09 PERMITTING INTOXICATED PERSONS ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   No person holding a retail license for the sale of alcoholic beverages,
shall permit any person to become intoxicated on the premises, nor shall any
licensee permit any person who is intoxicated or appears to be under the
influence of drugs and/or alcohol to remain on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.10 OPENING AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   No person holding a retail license for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall
permit any person other than employees of the licensee, to open any container
of distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages, and no container of distilled
spirits, wine or malt beverages shall be opened nor its contents consumed on
the licensed premises unless the licensee holds a retail drink license.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.11 PROHIBITION OF NUDE OR NEARLY NUDE ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section, these terms shall have the
following meanings:
      (1)   ALCOHOL BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR. The duly appointed
Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator of the city.
      (2)   BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. Business within the city where distilled
spirits, wine and/or malt beverages are sold by the drink for consumption on
the premises pursuant to a retail distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverage
license that has been issued by the city.
      (3)   LICENSE. A retail drink distilled spirits, wine and/or malt
beverage license issued by the city.
      (4)   LICENSEE. Any person to whom a retail distilled spirits, wine and/
or malt beverage by the drink license has been issued by the city, including
the officers and agents of the licensee.
      (5)   PERSON. A human being, and where appropriate, a public or private
corporation, an unincorporated association, a partnership, a government or a
governmental authority.
      (6)   PREMISES. The land and building in and upon which any business
establishment regulated by alcoholic beverage statutes, is carried on.
      (7)   RETAIL LICENSEE. Any licensee, including its officers, employee
and/or agents, who sell at retail, any alcoholic beverage for the sale of which
an occupational license is required.
   (B)   Prohibited activities. It shall be unlawful for, and a person is
guilty of, performing nude or nearly nude activity when that person appears on
a business establishment’s premises in such manner or attire as to expose to
view any portion of the pubic area, anus, vulva, or genitals, or any simulation
thereof, or when any female appears on a business establishment’s premises in
such manner or attire as to expose to view the portion of the breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or simulation
thereof. This definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human
female breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human
female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or
other wearing apparel, provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   (C)   Licensees permitting nude or nearly nude activities. A licensee or
retail licensee is guilty of permitting nude or nearly nude activity when,
having control of the business establishment’s premises, such licensee
knowingly organizes, supervises, promotes, permits, acquiesces, or fails to
make a reasonable and timely effort to halt or abate, any nude or nearly nude
activity, as defined and prohibited in division (B) above, on said premises.
   (D)   Revocation of liquor license.
      (1)   In the event that a violation of divisions (B) and/or (C) above of
this section occurs, the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall
forthwith conduct a hearing in conformity with this chapter, to determine
whether the alcoholic beverage licensee, at whose business establishment the
activity prohibited by this section occurred, shall have its distilled spirits,
wine and/or malt beverage licenses suspended or revoked.
      (2)   In the event that three or more violations of divisions (B) and/or
(C) of this section occur at a business establishment within a 12-month period,
the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, after a hearing, shall revoke the
retail drink liquor license or retail malt beverage liquor license or both.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19) Penalty, see §
111.99
LICENSES
§ 111.25 REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in any of the following businesses or activities
within the city without first obtaining the required license from the City
Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator:
   (A)   Retail sale of malt beverages by the package or drink;
   (B)   Wholesale distribution of malt beverages;
   (C)   Rectifier or distiller of distilled spirits or wine;
   (D)   The sale of wine at a restaurant facility which has a minimum seating
capacity of 50 or more people at tables, which facility receives 50% or more of
its gross annual income from food;
   (E)   Wholesale distribution of distilled spirits or wine;
   (F)   Retail sale of wine or distilled spirits by the package or drink;
   (G)   Activities for which special temporary licenses are authorized herein;
   (H)   Operation of a private club, as defined in KRS 241.010(38), which
traffics in distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages for consumption on the
premises;
   (I)   Retail sale of distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages by a caterer
as defined in KRS 243.033 and the state administrative regulations;
   (J)   Retail sale of distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages from more
than one bar, counter or similar location under a single retail drink license;
   (K)   Sunday sales of wine, distilled spirits and/or malt beverages by the
drink in qualified hotels, motels and restaurants under KRS 244.290 and KRS
244.480;
   (L)   Any other business or activity involving the manufacture, distribution
or sale of alcoholic beverages for which a license is required under KRS
243.070.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.26 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Definition. For purposes of this section, APPLICANT means any person,
partnership (members thereof) or corporation (private officers and directors
thereof).
   (B)   All applications for alcoholic beverage licenses established under
this subchapter shall be made in writing on forms provided by the City
Alcoholic Beverage Administrator. Application forms shall be consistent with
those provided by the state with regard to applications for state licenses. No
license established under this subchapter shall be granted until the
application has first been approved by the City Administrator Alcoholic
Beverage Administrator.
   (C)   The City Alcoholic Beverage Administrator shall not issue a license
authorized under this subchapter to any applicant for the sale of alcoholic
beverages within the city until public notice of the applicant’s intention to
apply for said license has been published pursuant to KRS 243.360, and proof of
publication requirements therein has been submitted with the application for
said license.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.27 APPLICATION FEE.
   A nonrefundable application fee of $50 shall be paid with the filing of the
application for a city license. If the license is granted, the application fee
shall be credited against the initial license fee.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.28 FORM OF LICENSE.
   All city licenses shall be in such form as may be provided by the ABC
Administrator, but at the least shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the licensee;
   (B)   The number of the license;
   (C)   The type of license;
   (D)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the licensed
premises;
   (E)   The name and address of the owner of the building in which the license
premises are located;
   (F)   The expiration date of the license; and
   (G)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a property or
vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to law.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.29 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE; CERTAIN CONDUCT AND ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   All licensees who obtain any license established under this article shall
comply with all state laws and city ordinances and regulations, including
regulations adopted by the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, and
said licenses shall be issued under the following conditions:
   (A)   Every motel, hotel, restaurant and private club holding a license
under this subchapter shall be entitled to serve such beverages as the licensee
is entitled to serve in a separate room or rooms at banquets or dinners or
where meals are served; however, no motel, hotel, restaurant or private club
shall maintain or operate or permit to be operated more than one bar or room
where alcoholic beverages are sold and which is opened to the general public
without first obtaining a separate or supplemental bar license with respect
thereto, as authorized under this subchapter.
   (B)   Each licensed premises shall at all times be conducted in an orderly
manner; and no disorderly or riotous conduct shall be allowed at any time on
any licensed premises; and no nuisance shall be suffered, permitted or
maintained thereon.
   (C)   No gambling, dice, slot machines, gambling device or other games of
chance shall be permitted in any form on or about any licensed premises, unless
otherwise authorized by state statute.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.30 COMPLIANCE AND PAYMENT OF DELINQUENT TAXES; PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE
OR RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No license to sell alcoholic beverages shall be issued or renewed to
any person, corporation, company, association, restaurant, business, club, or
any other entity that has been issued a stop work order, correction notice or
similar directive by the city that has not been lifted; or has failed to submit
personnel certification records demonstrating completion of the responsible
beverage service training as required in the Lewisport Municipal Code; or who
is delinquent by law in the payment of any real or personal ad valorem taxes or
any net profits or occupational license fees due to the city at the time of
application for an original license or at the time of issuance of a renewal
license, nor shall a license be issued to, or renewed for, any person who
intends to sell alcoholic beverages on any premises or property owned, leased
or occupied by the licensee, upon which there are any such delinquent taxes due
the city. If any taxes or fees due the city for any taxing year or period prior
to the date of the application for, or renewal, of, a license are unpaid and
delinquent upon the property or premises for which an alcoholic beverage
license is sought, the alcoholic beverage control administrator shall not
approve the license until he or she first receives from the director of finance
and support services or his or her designee, a written statement verifying that
the applicant for the license has paid the delinquent taxes or made
satisfactory arrangements with the city for the payment of same.
   (B)   The City ABC Administrator shall not grant any alcoholic beverage
license or approve a renewal of a license until the applicant's place of
business shall have been inspected and approved by Lewisport Fire Department,
Hancock County Urban Planning Commission and the Hancock County Health
Department.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.31 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075, there is hereby imposed a regulatory license
fee on the gross receipts of sale of alcoholic beverages of each licensee who
has a local license issued by the City ABC Administrator. The city's regulatory
license fee shall be 0% of gross sales of all alcoholic beverages sold by the
drink. In the case of retail sales of package distilled spirits and wine, the
regulatory license fee shall be 0% of gross sales. The regulatory license fee
shall be 0% on gross retail sales of package malt beverages. These regulatory
license fees may be addressed and modified each fiscal year when the city
adopts its annual budget and such annual rate for the regulatory license fee
shall be reasonable estimated to ensure full reimbursement to the city for the
cost of any additional policing, regulatory, or administrative expense related
to the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city. Should the city not address the
regulatory license fee in any given budget, then the regulatory license fee
shall remain at the level at which it was last fixed in this ABC Ordinance
until such time as the City Council shall adjust the fee.
   (B)   Payment of said regulatory fee shall be remitted to the City ABC
Administrator, who shall transmit all fees to the City Clerk, or his designee,
for deposit into the appropriate designated account. The city may use said fees
as permitted by law, including but not limited to, any cost of additional
policing, regulatory or administrative expenses related to the sale of
alcoholic beverages in the city. The regulatory license fee shall be in
addition to any fees or license permitted by law, except that a credit against
a regulatory license fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount equal to any
license fee paid by licensee and shall be based on paperwork required by the
local and/or state ABC Administrator, which may include but is not limited to
tax returns and financial statements. Said paperwork and payment will be due
according to the schedule set forth by the Mayor, or his or her designee, which
may be set at but is not limited to, time periods consisting of a monthly or
quarterly billing by the local ABC office and/or the city.
   (C)   Failure to pay such remittance within ten days of the due date
constitutes a violation and shall subject a licensee to suspension or
revocation.
   (D)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay remittance by the due
date is 5% of the regulatory fee for each 90 days or fraction thereof. The
total late filing penalty shall not exceed 25% of the regulatory fee; provided,
however, that in no case shall the penalty be less than $10.
   (E)   Interest at the rate of 8% per annum will apply to any late payments.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.32 EXPIRATION DATE; DATE FEES DUE AND PAYABLE.
   All licenses, except special temporary licenses, issued under this chapter,
shall expire on January 31 of each year, and the fees therefore shall be due
and payable prior to February 1 of each year.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.33 FEES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 243.070, the city hereby imposes the following fees
for the alcoholic beverage licenses authorized herein:
      (1)   Malt beverage license as follows:
         (a)   Nonquota retail malt beverage package license, per annum $200.
The holder of a nonquota retail malt beverage package license may obtain a
nonquota type four beverage drink license for a fee of $50.
         (b)   Nonquota type four retail malt beverage drink license, per annum
$200. The holder of a nonquota type four malt beverage drink license may obtain
a nonquota retail malt beverage package license for a fee of $50.
         (c)   Malt beverage distributor's license, per annum: $300.
         (d)   Brewer's license, per annum: $300.
         (e)   Microbrewery license, per annum: $400.
      (2)   Distilled spirit licenses as set forth in KRS 243.030:
         (a)   Distiller's license, per annum: $500.
         (b)   Rectifier's license, per annum: $960.
         (c)   Wholesaler's distilled spirits and wine license, per annum:
$3,000.
         (d)   Quota retail package license, per annum: $1,000.
         (e)   Quota retail drink license, per annum: $1,000.
      (3)   Nonquota type one retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,
wine and malt beverages), per annum: $2,000.
      (4)   Nonquota type two retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,
wine and malt beverages), per annum: $1,000. Nonquota type two retail drink
license (includes wine and malt beverages, per annum: $550.
      (5)   Nonquota type three retail drink license (includes distilled
spirits, wine and malt beverages), per annum: 300.
      (6)   Distilled spirits and wine special temporary auction license, per
event: $200.
      (7)   Special Sunday, retail drink license, per annum: $300.
      (8)   Extended hours supplemental license, per annum: $2,000.
      (9)   Caterer’s license, per annum: $800.
      (10)   Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per annum:
$1,000.
      (11)   Supplemental bar license, for each of the first five supplemental
bar licenses shall be the same as the fee, per annum, for the primary drink
license. There shall be no charge for each supplemental license issued in
excess of five licenses to the same licensee at the same premises.
      (12)   Special temporary license: $166.66.
      (13)   Any other special license authorized by KRS 243.070 deemed
necessary and appropriate by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator for
the proper regulation and control of the sale of distilled spirits and wine, as
provided for by law or regulation. In establishing the amount of the fee by
regulation, the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall give due regard
to the value of the privilege granted and the cost of regulating same. No fee
established hereunder shall become effective until it has been approved by the
City Manager.
   (B)   The license fee for every license issued under this subchapter shall
be payable by the person making application for the license and to whom the
license is issued, and no other person shall pay for any license issued under
this subchapter. In addition to all other penalties provided in this chapter, a
violation of this division (B) shall require the revocation of the license, the
fee for which was paid by another and also the revocation of the license, if
any, of the person so paying for the license of another.
   (C)   The license fees set forth hereinabove shall be paid at the time the
application therefore shall be made and the license issued as herein provided
for. If any license is revoked or suspended, or canceled for any reason by the
City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, the licensee shall forfeit any
and all claims which he might otherwise have had to any portion of the license
fee paid by licensee upon the issuance of the license.
   (D)   When any person applies for a new license, he or she shall be charged,
if the license is issued, the full fee for the respective license if six months
or more remain before the license is due to be renewed and one-half the fee if
less than six months remain before the license is due to be renewed. No
abatement of license fees shall be permitted to any person who held a license
of the same kind for the same premises in the preceding license period and who
was actually doing business under the license during the last month of the
preceding license period.
   (E)   Should any person licensed to conduct any of the business authorized
under this section be prohibited from conducting such business for the full
term of the license because of any changes that may hereafter be made in the
laws of the Commonwealth with reference to alcoholic beverages, the city shall
refund to him or her the proportionate part of the license fee for the period
during which the licensee is prevented from carrying on the business activity.
   (F)   All fees from licenses issued under this chapter shall be collected by
the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator and turned over on a monthly
basis for deposit in the general fund of the city.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.34 SPECIAL TEMPORARY LICENSES.
   (A)   All applications for special temporary licenses authorized under KRS
Chapter 243 shall be on forms provided by the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator and shall be filed with the Administrator at least 30 days prior
to the date of the event for which the license is requested.
   (B)   The Alcoholic Beverage Administrator may, in his or her discretion,
approve all distilled spirits and/or wine and malt beverage special temporary
licenses within the city when in the sole discretion of the City Administrator,
the necessity therefor has been established. Necessity is established when the
license is to be issued to any regularly organized fair, racing association for
a particular fair, race, race meeting conducted by an association, exposition,
picnic, bazaar, carnival, non-profit organization, political campaign function
or for-profit individual, corporation, or organization, when used in
conjunction with and as a part of, an organized charitable, civic or community-
sponsored event.
   (C)   The provisions in division (A) hereinabove notwithstanding, distilled
spirits, wine and/or malt beverage special temporary licenses may be refused by
the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator for any reason which the Administrator, in
the exercise of his or her sound discretion, deems sufficient, as provided in
KRS 243.450. Among those factors that the Administrator shall consider in the
exercise of his or her discretion are:
      (1)   The nature, theme, orientation and duration of the organized
charitable, civic or community-sponsored event; the day(s) of the week and
hours each day of the special event during which alcoholic beverages are
proposed to be sold;
      (2)   Whether or not the charitable, civic or community-sponsored event
has been permitted by the city's special events committee; and applicant's
membership, affiliation with or participation in, the approved special event;
      (3)   The impact, if any, on public health, safety and welfare;
      (4)   The impact, if any, of the special event on pedestrian and
vehicular traffic and traffic flow;
      (5)   The disruption of and inconvenience to affected residences and
businesses;
      (6)   The number of premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages
that are located within or in close proximity to the boundaries of the proposed
event;
      (7)   The impact, if any, of the special community event on the local
economy; and
      (8)   The proximity of the special community event to churches, schools,
child care or other facilities, parks or venues primarily utilized by minors;
      (9)   Those factors set forth in KRS 243.450(2).
   (D)   The Alcoholic Beverage Administrator shall not issue a special
temporary alcoholic beverage license in conjunction with any organized
charitable, civic, or community-sponsored event if:
      (1)   The applicant or the premises for which the license is sought does
not comply fully with all alcoholic beverage control statutes, administrative
regulations of the board or other city ordinances;
      (2)   The applicant or the premises for which the license is sought does
not comply with all regulations of the City Administrator;
      (3)   The applicant has done any act for which a revocation of license
would be authorized; or
      (4)   The applicant has made any false material statement in his or her
application.
   (E)   Any license issued under this section shall authorize the licensee to
exercise the privileges granted therein in accordance with the terms,
conditions and limitations established by the Administrator, on the designated
premises, for a specified and limited time not to exceed 30 days, and shall
expire when the qualifying event ends.
   (F)   If the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator shall, in his or her
discretion, refuse to issue a distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverage
special temporary license, a written notice of denial shall be mailed to the
applicant within ten working days after the filing of the application and
submission of any supporting information requested by the Administrator, which
notice shall set forth the reasons for the denial.
   (G)   the Alcoholic Beverage Administrator is hereby authorized and directed
to impose a license fee of $166.66, per event, for each distilled spirits and
wine special temporary license, a fee of $50 for each special temporary wine
license, and a fee of $25, per event, for each malt beverage, special temporary
license issued.
   (H)   The Alcoholic Beverage Administrator is authorized to adopt any and
all rules and regulations necessary and appropriate for the issuance of special
temporary licenses provided in this section.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.35 LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSES.
   If a license is lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the licensee,
his or her agents or employees, a duplicate in lieu of the original license,
shall be issued by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator upon payment of
a duplicate license fee in the amount of $10.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.36 NO TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT OF LICENSE WITHOUT AUTHORIZATION PROHIBITED.
   No license issued under KRS 243.020 to 243.670 to any person for any
licensed premises shall be transferable or assignable to any other person or to
any other premises or to any other part of the building containing the licensed
premises, unless transfer or assignment is authorized by the state
administrator in the exercise of his or her sound discretion under KRS 243.640
and 243.650. If transfers or assignments are approved by the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Administrator, they shall not be issued until a payment of $25 is made
to the Director of Finance.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.37 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING; STANDARDS FOR
CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   All persons, corporations, companies, associations, restaurants,
businesses, clubs and other entities licensed or employed in the sales and
service of alcoholic beverages, including the retail sale of alcoholic
beverages by the package or drink, shall participate in and complete a
mandatory responsible beverage service training program approved by the City
Manager or the City Manager's designee. Before approval is granted, the City
Manager or his or her designee shall first be satisfied that the training
program is genuine and effectively trains all participants in the recognition
of false identification and age documents as well as the human characteristics
of alcohol and/or drug intoxication. The city shall not require enrollment in
any particular class or classes, but only require that the training be obtained
from a recognized person, program or agency with a bona fide curriculum that
meets the goals expressed herein.
   (B)   All persons, corporations, companies, associations, restaurants,
businesses, clubs and other entities licensed by the city for the sale of
alcoholic beverages shall require all their employees and other persons who are
engaged in the selling or serving of alcoholic beverages or which are engaged
in managing the premises on which such sales are offered, to complete a
responsible beverage service training class approved by the City Manager or the
City Manager's designee.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) above shall not apply to any manufacturer of
alcoholic beverages as this term is defined in KRS 241.010(30) or any other
person, corporation, association, business or other entity licensed for the
wholesale of alcoholic beverages.
   (D)   Standards for certification. The training person or agency must
reasonably instruct upon and certify the participants' competence in at least
the following:
      (1)   Pertinent federal, state and local laws related to the sale of
alcohol;
      (2)   Verification of age, forms of identification and usual methods of
false or misleading age identification;
      (3)   The effect of alcohol on humans and the physiology of alcohol
intoxication, including the effect of alcohol on pregnant women, their unborn
child and other situations involving the use of alcohol by persons vulnerable
to its effects;
      (4)   Recognition of the signs of intoxication;
      (5)   Strategies for intervention and prevention of underage and
intoxicated persons from consuming alcohol;
      (6)   The licensee's policies and guidelines, including the employee's
role in observing those policies; and
      (7)   Potential liability of persons serving alcohol.
   The person providing the responsible beverage service training shall be
certified by the government agency, industry or organization that sponsors or
develops the training curriculum.
   (E)   New licensees and their respective employees, managers, officers and
agents who are required to complete the mandatory responsible beverage service
training shall have 60 days from the date of the issuance of their initial
license to complete the mandatory responsible beverage service training. New
employees, managers, officers and agents shall complete the mandatory
responsible beverage service training within 60 days from the date of
employment or other like affiliation with the licensee. Licensees, employees,
managers, officers or agents who fail to complete the mandatory responsible
beverage service training within the prescribed time shall not sell or serve
alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises until they have successfully
completed the required training. All persons completing the training
requirements in this section shall be recertified in responsible beverage
service training from a program approved by the City Manager or his or her
designee under the foregoing criteria not less than once every three years
thereafter.
   (F)   Personnel certification records. Each licensee shall maintain written
proof of completion of service training on its business premises for each
person connected with its business for whom training is required under this
section. Training records shall be retained by the licensee for a minimum of
three years. Each licensee and other persons engaged in the sales or service of
alcoholic beverages by the package or drink shall present proof of completion
of the responsible beverage service training required herein, and in a format
approved by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, by December 1 of each
year and, additionally, upon the request of the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator at any other time throughout the year.
   (G)   No person, corporation, company, partnership, association, restaurant,
business, club or other entity holding a license for the sale of distilled
spirits, wine and/or malt beverages by the package or drink shall
intentionally, willfully, knowingly, or wantonly authorize, direct, permit,
allow or cause any employee, officer or agent of the licensee who has not
completed the mandatory service training required in this section, to sell or
serve any alcoholic beverages to anyone on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 111.38 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any alcoholic beverage license issued under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator for any
cause or reason set forth in KRS 243.450, 243.490 and/or 243.500, as well as
for violation of any city ordinance regarding alcoholic beverage licensing,
sales or administrative regulations pertaining thereto promulgated by the Local
Administrator, or any violation of the Lewisport Municipal Code relating to
licenses, taxation and miscellaneous business regulations.
   (B)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or any amendment
thereof, by an employee or duly authorized agent of a licensee shall constitute
a violation by the licensee.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to report in writing to
the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator any violation of state law or this
chapter or any amendment thereto, or of any rules or regulations duly adopted
by the Administrator, that are observed by members of the Police Department.
When any licensee shall violate any such statute, ordinance or other provisions
of this chapter relating to the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages, or
any amendments or supplements thereto, or any of the rules and regulations
adopted by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board or any acts of Congress
or rule or regulation of any federal board, agency or commission relative to
the regulation and taxation of alcoholic beverages, or upon conviction by a
court of competent jurisdiction of any such violation, the City Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator is hereby authorized to initiate proceedings to
suspend or revoke any license issued under this chapter.
   (D)   Suspension/revocation; notice of violation; hearing. The Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator may initiate proceedings to suspend or revoke a
license issued under this chapter by serving the licensee with a written
“notice of violation”setting forth the reasons for the suspension or revocation
and notifying licensee of the date, time and place of a hearing to be held by
the Administrator, or some other person designated by him or her for that
purpose, on the alleged violation(s). The notice requirements of this section
are satisfied if the Administrator sends the “notice of violation” to the
licensee's last known address according to the license records on file. The
“notice of violation” required herein shall be personally served on or sent to
the licensee at his or her last known address at least seven days prior to the
date on which the hearing is to be held, At the hearing, the licensee shall be
given the opportunity to “show cause” why his or her license should not be
suspended or revoked, as the case may be. The licensee shall also be entitled
to be represented by legal counsel, shall be entitled to examine the evidence
in support of the alleged violation(s), may cross examine witnesses and submit
evidence on the licensee's behalf. The Administrator or designated hearing
officer shall not be bound by formal rules of evidence and may admit hearsay
evidence under appropriate circumstances. At the conclusion of the hearing, or
within a reasonable time thereafter, the Administrator or his or her designee
shall issue an order either dismissing the “notice of violation”, suspending
the license for a designated time period or revoking the license in its
entirety. At the conclusion of the hearing, or within a reasonable time
thereafter, the Administrator or his designee shall issue findings of fact and
conclusions of law to support its decision and a copy of same shall be mailed
to the licensee in question. A copy of the decision of the Administrator or his
or her designee shall be submitted to the City Manager.
   (E)   Automatic revocation. At any time after a license has been issued
under the provisions of this chapter, the same shall be automatically revoked
by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator without the requirement of the
hearing set forth immediately hereinabove, if the alcoholic beverage license is
revoked by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
   (F)   Payment of fines in lieu of suspension.
      (1)   Upon proceedings for the revocation of any license issued under KRS
Chapter 243 and this chapter, the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator,
may, in his or her discretion, order a suspension of the license for any cause
for which it may, but is not required to, revoke the license under the
authority granted in this section. However, the licensee may have the
alternative, subject to the approval of the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator, to pay in lieu of part or all of the days of any suspension
period, a sum as follows:
         (a)   Distilled, rectifiers, vintners, brewers and blenders, $1,000
per day;
         (b)   Wholesale liquor licensees, $400 per day;
         (c)   Wholesale beer licensees, $400 per day;
         (d)   Retail licensees authorized to sell distilled spirits, wine or
beer by the package or drink, $50 per day; and
         (e)   All remaining licensees, $50 per day.
      (2)   Payments in lieu of suspension collected by the Administrator shall
be deposited and used as local alcoholic beverage license fee receipts are
deposited and used.
   (G)   Appeals from any order or decision of the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator may be taken to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board by
filing with the Board within 30 days a certified copy of the order(s) of the
City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator. Matters at issue shall be heard
by the Board as an original proceeding. Appeals from orders of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator shall be governed by KRS Chapter 13B.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
ENTERTAINMENT DESTINATION CENTER
§ 111.50 GEOGRAPHICAL BOUNDARIES AND LICENSING.
   (A)   The geographical boundaries of the Entertainment Destination Center
(EDC) in the City of Lewisport, Kentucky lies within the following description:
      (1)   The Entertainment Destination Center is a geographic area that is
bordered on the north by the Ohio River, on the west by Fifth Street, on the
south by High Street, on the east by Third Street and includes portions of Pell
Street, Fourth Street, Caroline Street and Millennium Park.
      (2)   The following properties within the EDC are excluded from the EDC
licensed premise: properties owned as of the effective date of this section by
religious institutions, private residences, and certain public spaces including
but not limited to the Downtown Playground. A map which more particularly
describes the boundaries of the EDC perimeter shown in yellow is attached to
Ordinance 23-01 as "Exhibit A" and incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   The City of Lewisport shall apply for an EDC license.
   (C)   A business that is located within the EDC that sells alcoholic
beverages shall hold the necessary alcoholic beverage license or licenses for
its premises. A licensee within or adjacent to the EDC may sell alcoholic
beverages from one or more nonpermanent locations within any common area within
EDC if the licensee holds a supplemental bar license for each non-permanent
location and the licensee holds written permission for these sales from the
city.
   (D)   Written permission may be granted by the City Manager after a
determination that the requirements listed in 804 KAR 4:370 have been met. If
permission is denied by the City Manager for sale in a common area, the
licensee may file an appeal of the decision to the City Council who will
determine at the next available meeting following the appeal whether to uphold
or overturn the decision of the City Manager.
   (E)   During the days and times designated by the city throughout the
Lewisport Heritage Festival, patrons may leave the premises of businesses that
sell alcoholic beverages with alcoholic beverage drinks and consume those
drinks in any entertainment destination center common area within the EDC if
the city:
      (1)   Possesses the common area by deed, lease or permit;
      (2)   Provides adequate security for the common area;
      (3)   Ensures that the public streets are controlled in a manner that
ensures public safety and pedestrian protection from vehicular traffic;
      (4)   Has granted written permission to the business to conduct these
activities;
      (5)   Prohibits patrons from taking alcoholic beverages outside the
physical boundaries of the entertainment destination center; and
      (6)   Requires any drinks that are removed from the licensed premises
within the EDC shall be in a designated cup as designated by the city.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 3-16-23)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall for the
first offense, be fined not less than $100 and not more than $200, or be
imprisoned in the county jail for not more than six months, or both; and for
the second and each subsequent violation within a two-year period following the
previous offense shall be fined not less than $200 or more than $500 or be
imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 12 months, or both. If a person
who violates any provision of this chapter is a corporation, partnership, joint
stock company, association, fiduciary or other legal entity, then the president
and/or principal officer, partner, manager or other person responsible for such
violations may be punished by imprisonment as authorized by this section.
   (B)   Violations of §
111.11.
      (1)   Any person who violates §
111.11(B) and/or (C) shall be punished by a fine of up to $250 for each
violation.
      (2)   A second violation of §
111.11(B) and/or (C) within a 12-month period shall constitute class B
misdemeanor with punishment as set forth in the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
      (3)   Three or more violations of §
111.11(B) and/or (C) within a 12-month period shall constitute class A
misdemeanor with punishment as set forth in the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
111.25(A) shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25, and not more than
$500, or by imprisonment for up to 30 days or both such fine and imprisonment.
Each incident involving the manufacture, distribution or sale of alcoholic
beverages without the required license shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
CHAPTER 112: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License fee or tax
   
112.03   Insurance policy not a life insurance policy
   
112.04   License fee or tax on premium receipts
   
112.05   Due date for license fees; penalty
   
112.06   Written breakdown of collections
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INSURANCE COMPANY. Any company authorized to transact insurance business in
the state of Kentucky in accordance with KRS Chapter 304. Insurance company
shall also include a surplus lines broker licensed in accordance with KRS
Chapter 304, Subtitle 10.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A city, county, charter county, consolidated local
government, urban-county government, or unified local government that, by this
ordinance, imposes a license fee or tax upon insurance premium receipts.
(Ord. 20-4, passed 10-15-20)
§ 112.02 LICENSE FEE OR TAX.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee or tax for
the privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Ord. 20-4, passed 10-15-20)
§ 112.03 INSURANCE POLICY NOT A LIFE INSURANCE POLICY.
   Except as provided in §
112.05, the license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance company with respect
to any insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 10% of
the premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city. The license fee or tax shall apply only to those classes of business
which such insurance company is authorized to transact, less all premiums
returned to policyholders.
(Ord. 19-8, passed 12-12-19)
§ 112.04 LICENSE FEE OR TAX ON PREMIUM RECEIPTS.
   No license fee or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall apply to the
following:
   (A)   Policies of group health insurance provided for state employees under
KRS 18A.225;
   (B)   Health insurance policies issued to individuals including policies
issued through Kentucky Access;
   (C)   Life insurance policies issued to individuals;
   (D)   Workers' compensation insurance;
   (E)   Annuities;
   (F)   Federal flood insurance;
   (G)   Municipal bonds, leases, or other debt instruments issued by or on
behalf of the city unless the bonds, leases, or other debt instruments are
issued for profit or on behalf of for-profit or private organizations;
   (H)   Policies of high deductible health plans as defined in in 26 U.S.C.
sec. 223(c)(2), commonly referred to as Health Savings Accounts;
   (I)   Policies of insurance, insured or reinsured by the Federal Crop
Insurance Corporation. 7 C.F.R. sec. 400.352(b)(2);
   (J)   Policies insuring or naming the state or one of its agencies or
political subdivisions as an insured and surety bonds where the state or one of
its agencies or political subdivisions is the obligee. For the purposes of
local government premium tax payments, school districts are considered agencies
of the state and policies insuring school districts and bonds with school
districts as the obligee are exempt from local government premium taxes;
   (K)   Policies issued to public service companies which pay ad valorem
taxes;
   (L)   Entities issued a certificate of authority to do business in Kentucky
only as a health maintenance organization pursuant to KRS 304.38-060;
   (M)   Entities issued a certificate of authority to do business in Kentucky
as a captive insurer pursuant to KRS 304.49-010;
   (N)   Domestic life insurance companies electing to be taxed under the
provisions of KRS 136.320; or
   (O)   Policies insuring or naming the City of Lewisport, Kentucky as an
insured.
(Ord. 20-4, passed 10-15-20)
§ 112.05 DUE DATE FOR LICENSE FEES; PENALTY.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. The payment shall be submitted to the
local government, together with Form LGT-141 on or before the due date. Any
license fee or tax not paid on or before the due date shall bear interest from
the date due until paid at the interest rate established annually by the
Department of Revenue for unpaid or underpaid taxes. This interest shall be
paid to the city together with the license fee or tax that is due. In addition,
the insurance company shall pay to the city a penalty in the amount of 10% on a
license tax or fee not paid within 30 days after the due date.
(Ord. 20-4, passed 10-15-20)
§ 112.06 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   In accordance with KRS 91A.080(8), each insurance company subject to the
license fee or tax imposed by this chapter shall annually, by March 31, furnish
the local government a written breakdown of all collections in the preceding
calendar year for the following categories of insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland Marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 20-4, passed 10-15-20)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
(Reserved)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   PLANNING
         
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: PLANNING
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of county zoning and subdivision regulations
   
150.02   Joint Planning Commission
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF COUNTY ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Hancock County Zoning Regulations for the City of Hawesville, City
of Lewisport and Hancock County, and the Subdivision Regulations for the City
of Hawesville, City of Lewisport and Hancock County, which are attached to
Ordinance 22-02 and made part hereof by reference, are hereby adopted.
   (B)   If any clause or section of this Zoning Ordinance, containing Zoning
Regulations and Subdivision Regulations, be adjudged by any court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or
invalidate the remainder thereof.
   (C)   Upon adoption, this section shall supersede and take precedence over
the previous Ordinance adopted November 23, 1992, together with all amendments
thereto, and all zoning regulations and subdivision regulations previously
adopted by the City of Lewisport, but shall not be retroactive in force and
effect except as otherwise provided in this section.
(Ord. passed 3-20-80; Am. Ord. 93-2, passed 2-18-93; Am. Ord. passed 5-16-96;
Am. Ord. passed 4-17-97; Am. Ord. 02-2, passed 5-16-02; Am. Ord. 22-02, passed
4-21-22)
§ 150.02 JOINT PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   General. This commission shall be known as the Hancock Urban Planning
Commission and is hereby created and established as authorized by KRS Chapter
100, and such shall be organized and empowered as stated herein. Upon the
appointment and subsequent approval of members, election of officers, and
adoption of its by-laws, its existence shall begin subject to the provisions of
KRS Chapter 100. The Commission may engage in planning operations within its
jurisdiction which shall be illustrated on a map marked "Exhibit A" and
attached to Ord. passed - -80, and made a part hereof by reference.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The Hancock Urban Planning Commission shall consist of 12 members.
The Judge of Hancock County shall appoint four members from within the
unincorporated areas of the county and within the jurisdiction of the Hancock
Urban Planning Commission boundary. The Mayor of Lewisport shall appoint four
members from within the city. The Mayor of Hawesville shall appoint four
members from within the City of Hawesville. All of the above appointments must
be approved by the respective legislative bodies, and shall be known as citizen
members.
      (2)   The term of office of the members shall be four years, except the
original terms shall be staggered so a proportionate number are to serve one,
two and three years respectively. Reappointments of appointments are to be for
four years to fill vacancies and shall be made in order to continue the
staggered pattern.
      (3)   All vacancies, whether by resignation, dismissal, or expiration of
the term of office, shall be filled within 60 days by the appropriate
appointing authority or as otherwise provided for in KRS 100.147. A member may
be removed by the appropriate appointing authority for inefficiency, neglect of
duty, malfeasance, or conflict of interest. The removed member shall have the
right of appeal in the manner prescribed by KRS 100.157.
      (4)   Members shall serve without compensation, but reimbursement of
expenses may be authorized.
      (5)   The oath of office shall be administered to all members of the
Commission before entering upon their duties and shall be administered as
provided by law.
   (C)   Officers and staff. The Commission shall elect a Chairperson, and any
other officers which it deems necessary. The term of office shall be one year
with eligibility for re-election. The Commission may employ a staff as it may
deem necessary for its work and may contract with professional planners and
other parties for such services as it may require.
   (D)   Meetings. The Commission shall conduct each year at least 12 regular
meetings for the transaction of its business. The by-laws adopted by the
Commission shall reflect the schedule of regular meetings; the manner in which
notice shall be given; date; time; place; and the subject or subjects to be
discussed, as well as the method of calling and conducting special meetings. A
simple majority of the total membership shall constitute a quorum. After a
quorum has been established a simple majority of that quorum can transact any
official business except in those instances where there is to be an adoption or
amendment of the commission's by-laws or elements of the comprehensive plan or
regulations; then a vote of the simple majority of the total membership shall
be necessary.
   (E)   By-laws. The Commission shall adopt and approve its by-laws before it
may properly transact any business. The by-laws shall set forth the procedures,
rules, and regulations necessary for the Commission to conduct its business.
The by-laws shall describe the method for administration of funds, and provide
for an annual audit thereof.
   (F)   Powers and duties. The Commission shall have general powers necessary
to carry out its functions in accordance with this section and KRS Chapter 100.
The Commission may be assigned any powers, duties and functions related to
urban renewal or public housing by the Fiscal Court of Hancock County or by the
City Councils of Lewisport and Hawesville.
(Ord. passed - -80)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section   
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
General Provisions
   
151.20   Definitions
   
151.21   Lands to which provisions apply
   
151.22   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
151.23   Establishment of development permit
   
151.24   Compliance
   
151.25   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.26   Interpretation
   
151.27   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.28   Appeals and variance procedures
Administration
   
151.40   Designation of local administrator
   
151.41   Establishment of development permit
   
151.42   Duties and responsibilities of the local administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.55   General construction standards
   
151.56   Specific standards
   
151.57   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation
(unnumbered A Zones) and/or floodways
   
151.58   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
151.59   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.60   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter "A"
   
151.61   Critical facilities
 
   
151.99   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky has in KRS 100 delegated to
local government units the authority to adopt regulations designed to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the
City Council hereby adopts the following Floodplain Management Ordinance, as
follows.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08; Am. Ord. 08-4, passed 5-
15-08)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08)
§ 151.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential home buyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principal source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a
combination of both. In A Zones, floodwaters may move  slowly or rapidly, but
waves are usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year
flood, base flood elevations, and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure, the use of which is incidental
to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a
minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation, and should be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay
sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   A1-30 AND AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
shown.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator's ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1 - A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, AND AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete, these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   A99 ZONE. That part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   B AND X ZONES (SHADED). Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than one square mile, and areas
protected by levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood, which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-year flood). BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and AR/
AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a
1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all four sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank, or other man-made
facility or infrastructure. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety,
and general welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the Regular
Program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during, and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during, and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use, or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic, and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials, or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or permanent storage
of materials or equipment.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls,
piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls. (See
freeboard requirements for residential and non-residential structures.)
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure's elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. That portion of a structure below the Base Flood Elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures, or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first Floodplain Management Ordinance adopted by the city based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-year flood have a moderate to
low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD, FLOODING, OR FLOOD WATER.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters, the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source,
and/or mudslides (i.e. mudflows). See MUDSLIDES.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See FLOOD-
RELATED EROSION.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e. mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited to, emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state, and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water, and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities, is watertight to a specified design
elevation with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water
and all structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated
debris impact forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional
hydraulic and/or hydrologic analysis.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §
151.28, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the City Council
will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100
years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those
increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. Freeboard must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components and the like.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e. county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or mis-
operation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of a
dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity and/or flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
      (1)   Increased cost of compliance coverage provides for the payment of a
claim for the cost to comply with state or community floodplain management laws
or ordinances after a direct physical loss by a flood. When a building covered
by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy under the NFIP sustains a loss and the
state or community declares the building to be substantially or repetitively
damaged, ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the cost to elevate, flood-proof,
demolish, or remove the building.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and non-residential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTE 151.250- PLANS FOR DAMS, LEVEES AND THE LIKE TO BE
APPROVED AND PERMIT ISSUED BY CABINET - (ENVIRONMENTAL AND PUBLIC PROTECTION
CABINET).
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county, or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts, or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation, or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill, or other obstruction (except
those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream, or
in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for the work
have been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for the
construction, reconstruction, or improvement and the plans and specifications
have been approved in writing by the cabinet and a permit issued. However, the
cabinet, by regulation, may exempt those dams, embankments, or other
obstructions, which are not of such size or type as to require approval by the
cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county, or other political subdivision of the
state shall commence the filing of any area with earth, debris, or any other
material, or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building,
barrier, or obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or
stream, or in the floodway of the stream so that the filling, raising, or
obstruction will in any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the
floodway of the stream unless plans and specifications for such work have been
submitted to and approved by the cabinet and a permit issued as required in
division (1) above.
      (3)   Nothing in this section is intended to give the cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance, or operation of any drainage district, ditch, or
system established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the
same except where the obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by
the cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water
resources in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control
thereof so notified. The Department for Natural Resources through KRS Chapter
350 shall have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Chapter 151 concerning the
regulation of dams, levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills, or other
obstructions across or along any stream or in the floodway of any stream, which
structures are permitted under KRS Chapter 350 for surface coal mining
operations.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMC'S include the following
categories.
      LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data that,
usually due to man-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION- FILL (LOMR F). A determination that a structure
or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above the BFE
and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM.
      (1)   A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
      (2)   For a levee system to be recognized, the following criteria must be
met:
         (a)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised);
and
         (b)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or
state agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a
community participating in the NFIP.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support,
or basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion
of construction. It does not include earth that is placed for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure's foundation
system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure's lowest floor, provided that the enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
"recreational vehicle." (See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE)
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter "A" is not used by FEMA, the letter "B" is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community's FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow,
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is
in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.
mudflow) damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRM's. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the city's floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to the structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of Lewisport's adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including, but not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools, farm
structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRM's and Digitally Referenced FIRM's
(DFIRM's). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across, or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD) (SEE BASE FLOOD). The flood that has
a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any
flood zone that begins with the letter "A" is subject to the 100-year flood.
Over the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a
flood with the SFHA.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31,1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of probation, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community's floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 C.F.R. 60.3,
60.4, 60.5, and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community's participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a ten-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred, or, four or more flood
losses of $1,000 or more over the life of the structure, or, three or more
flood losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than
the current value of the structure.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). That portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1 - A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION (INCLUDES SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT AND OTHER PROPOSED
NEW DEVELOPMENT). The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement, or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground;
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other man-made
facilities or infrastructures. See BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and
conditions of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.
      (1)   Any damage to a building for which the cost of repairs equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the damage occurring.
      (2)   This term includes structures that are categorized as repetitive
loss.
      (3)   For the purposes of this definition, "repair" is considered to
occur when the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences.
      (4)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure".
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any combination of reconstruction, alteration, or improvement to a
building, taking place during a one-year period in which the cumulative
percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the current market value of
the building.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, an improvement occurs when the
first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
      (3)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions;
         (b)   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure"; or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X Zones shown on recent FIRMs (B Zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. Unshaded X Zones (C Zones on older
FIRMs) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is
less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08; Am. Ord. 08-4, passed 5-
15-08)
§ 151.21 LANDS TO WHICH PROVISIONS APPLY.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by
the Lewisport City Council from available technical studies, historical
information, and other available and reliable sources, areas within the
jurisdiction of the city which may be subject to periodic inundation by
floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08; Am. Ord. 08-4, passed 5-
15-08)
§ 151.22 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Hancock County,
dated June 17, 2008, with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs),
other supporting data, and declared to be a part of these regulations by the
city, and for those land areas acquired by the city through annexation. This
FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter
and may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation
of this chapter and which are recommended to the City Council by the Floodplain
Administrator and are enacted by the City Council pursuant to statutes
governing land use management regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent
records of the city and are on file and available for review by the public
during regular business hours at Lewisport City Hall at 405 Second Street,
Lewisport, Kentucky 42351.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08; Am. Ord. 08-4, passed 5-
15-08)
§ 151.23 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
151.41 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08)
§ 151.24 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the Fiscal Court from taking such lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08)
§ 151.25 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08)
§ 151.26 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08)
§ 151.27 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within the areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall
not create liability on the part of the City Council, any officer, or employee,
the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the Federal Insurance Administration, or the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08; Am. Ord. 08-4, passed 5-
15-08)
§ 151.28 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)    Nature of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section of the chapter are
based on the general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece
of property and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a
parcel of property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with
the requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the City Council to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board. The city shall establish an
Appeals Board consisting of Lewisport City Council.
   (C)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board.
      (1)   The Appeals Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals Board or any
taxpayer may appeal the decision to the local District Court, as provided in
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Appeals/variance procedures. In passing upon the applications, the
Appeals Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of the damage on the existing individual owner and future
owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Appeals Board may attach conditions
to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of
this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the "minimum necessary" to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. MINIMUM NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the City Council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the "minimum necessary" to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. In the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be
made that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not
destroy the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in the definition
section under "Public safety and nuisance"), cause fraud or victimization of
the public (as defined in §
151.20) or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (5)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (6)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
      (7)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of division (D)(1)
through (11) above are satisfied and that the structure or other development is
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does
not result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   The construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the City Clerk Recorder and shall be recorded in
a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of
land; and
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report the
variances issued in the community's biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of "historic structures" (see definition) upon determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (H)   No impact certification within the floodway. Variances shall not be
issued within any mapped or designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08; Am. Ord. 08-4, passed 5-
15-08)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.40 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council hereby appoints the City Administrator to administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter by granting or denying
development permits in accordance with its provisions, and is herein referred
to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08; Am. Ord. 08-4, passed 5-
15-08)
§ 151.41 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or
other development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
151.22.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
   (C)   Endorsement of local administrator is required before a state
floodplain construction permit can be processed.
   (D)   Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)    Application stage.
         (a)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade;
         (b)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
non-residential structure will be flood-proofed;
         (c)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure will
meet the flood-proofing criteria in §§
151.56(B) and
151.58(B)(2); or
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or flood-proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, AH, and A
Zones where the community has adopted a regulatory Base Flood Elevation, the
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
         (b)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood-
proofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by the review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make the corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-
work order for the project.
(Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08)
§ 151.42 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized, and directed to administer, implement, and enforce the provisions
of this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following.
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained,
advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be required, and
if specific federal or state permit requirements are known, require that copies
of the permits be provided and maintained on file with the development permit;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner; and
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
151.22, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
151.55 through
151.61. Any such information shall be submitted to the City Council for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
         (b)   Submit evidence of the notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
151.56(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
151.41(D)(2);
         (b)   Certification required by §
151.56(B) (elevation or flood-proofing of non-residential structures) as shown
on a completed and certified flood-proofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in accordance with §
151.41(D)(2);
         (c)   Certification required by §
151.41(D)(3) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
151.59(A) (subdivision standards);
         (e)   Certification required by §
151.41(D)(5) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
         (h)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this
chapter as specified in §
151.99.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
151.28(C)(2);
         (b)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
151.21, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
151.55 through
151.61;
         (c)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
151.56(B), a flood-proofing certificate; and
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes the building, structure, or
premises unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous, the Administrator may enter the
building, structure, or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed upon the Administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If the structures or premises are occupied, he or she shall
first present proper credentials and request entry. If the buildings,
structures, or premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of the
request entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Administrator shall have recourse to
every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care, or control of any building,
structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Administrator for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
      (7)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Administrator, work on any
building, structure, or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease. The notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the
person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be
resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued under
the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statements or
misrepresentations as to the material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by the
Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator's staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render himself or herself personally liable, and is hereby relieved
from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties. Any suit brought against any officer, employee, or member
because of the act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision
of this chapter shall be defended by the Department of Law until the final
termination of the proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08; Am. Ord. 08-4, passed 5-
15-08)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.55 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces;
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding;
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures;
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter; and
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall be
undertaken only if the non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or replaced.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08)
§ 151.56 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
151.22, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated no lower
than zero feet above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation
perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in
accordance with standards of §
151.41(D)(3).
      (1)   In an AO Zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified.
      (2)   In an A Zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated zero feet above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses,
use of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, best
supportable and reasonable judgement in the event no data can be produced.
Title 401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060,
states as a part of the technical requirements for a state floodplain permit,
the applicant shall provide cross sections for determining floodway boundaries
(and thereby Base Flood Elevations) at any proposed construction site where
FEMA maps are not available. All cross sections shall be referenced to mean sea
level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no more than + five-tenths
foot. Cross sections elevations shall be taken at those points which represent
significant breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic characteristics of
the base floodplain change. Each cross section shall extend across the entire
base floodplain and shall be in the number and at the locations specified by
the cabinet. If necessary to ensure that significant flood damage will not
occur, the cabinet may require additional cross sections or specific site
elevations which extend beyond those needed for making routine regulatory
floodway boundary calculations.
      (3)   In all other zones, elevated zero feet above the base flood
elevation.
      (4)   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor including basement shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the Community Building Inspection
Department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for non-residential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with §
151.56(A) or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be flood-proofed below an elevation zero feet above the level of
the base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment,
and ductwork, elevated no lower than zero feet above the level of the base
flood elevation;
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this section are satisfied. The certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
151.41(D)(1)(c);
      (5)    Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) below;
and
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below an
elevation zero feet above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin 1-
93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings (e.g.) that include fully
enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base
flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of the enclosed areas shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH, and AE Zones on the community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
         (a)   On individual lots or parcels;
         (b)   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
         (c)   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
         (d)   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
         (e)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; or
         (f)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result
of a flood, all manufactured homes must be:
            1.   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than zero feet above
the level of the base flood elevation; and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (2)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that the
manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than zero feet above the level of the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A, A1-30,
AO, AH, and AE Zones on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must
either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured homes.
      (4)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is licensed
and insured in accordance with the State of Kentucky motor vehicle regulations,
is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard, established
in §
151.22, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge; and
      (2)   If this division is satisfied, all new construction and substantial
improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §§
151.55 through
151.61.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08)
§ 151.57 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION
(UNNUMBERED A ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.22, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood-proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
151.22.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08)
§ 151.58 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.22, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas.
   (B)   These areas have flood hazards associated with base flood depths of
one to three feet, where a clearly defined channel does not exist and the water
path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following
provisions apply:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including the basement, shall
be elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor, including the basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including the basement, shall
be elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade; and
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
completely flood-proofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in
Zone AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so
that any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required as stated in §
151.56(B).
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08)
§ 151.59 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation, and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is
the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08)
§ 151.60 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER "A".
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated "A",
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one foot above grade,
total openings are to be one square inch per one square foot of floor area, at
least two openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood resistant materials below a level of zero feet above
the base flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08)
§ 151.61 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the base flood
elevation at the site. Flood-proofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications, the development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter,
and/or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See below.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation, or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
   (D)   Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with granting of a variance or special
exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined no less than $100 or imprisoned for not more
than one day, or both, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Floodplain
Administrator from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 10-20-94; Am. Ord. 08-2, passed 2-25-08)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.     ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS
         
II.     ANNEXATIONS
         
III.     CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
         
IV.     FRANCHISES
         
V.     REZONINGS
         
VI.     VACATIONS
         
VII.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
TABLE I: ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
98-2     7-23-98     Accepting the dedication of a .357 acre tract at Heartland
                     Villa, 8005 U.S. Highway 60 West
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing to the city certain unincorporated territory in
        - -80       Hancock County being known as Kenneth Robert's Riverview
                     Subdivision
                     Annexing to the city certain unincorporated territory in
        1-12-80     Hancock County being known as the two story residence
                     behind the Hancock County Rest Haven Nursing Home
                     Annexing to the city certain unincorporated territory in
        2-12-80     Hancock County being a portion of Hancock Park Subdivision
                     and a portion of the Horace S. Emmick, II Farm
                     Annexing to the city certain unincorporated territory in
94-8     10-4-94     Hancock County being two tracts, beginning at points near
                     Bill Weedman Ford
                     Annexing to the city certain unincorporated territory
99-2     3-25-99     being property known as the U.S. Highway 60 and Kentucky
                     Highway 657, containing 61 acres more or less
                     Annexing to the city certain unincorporated territory
99-8     9-16-99     being property known as 1230 Morton Lane, containing .310
                     acre and .124 acre
                     Annexing to the city certain unincorporated territory in
01-6     9-20-01     Hancock County being property known as 1250 Morton Lane,
                     containing .310 acre
                     Annexing to the city certain unincorporated territory in
02-4     6-20-02     Hancock County being property known as 1210 Morton Lane,
                     containing .293 acre
                     Annexing to the city certain unincorporated territory in
                     Hancock County being property known as lot 33 of the
04-1     4-15-04     redivision of Lincoln Country Estates Subdivision, Unit 2,
                     and Lots 55, 56, and north 1/2 of Lot 57 of Lincoln
                     Country Estates Subdivision, Unit 2
                     Annexing to the city certain unincorporated territory in
05-4     11-16-05    Hancock County being property known as New Addition
                     Eastward End of Hancock Park Subdivision, containing
                     13.223 acres
                     Annexing to the city certain unincorporated territory in
05-6     12-15-05    Hancock County being property known as Lots 35, 36, and 37
                     of the Lincoln Country Estates Subdivision
                     Annexing to the city certain unincorporated territory in
09-2     4-16-09     Hancock County being property known as 1350 Morton Lane,
                     containing 0.310 acres
                     Annexing to the city certain unincorporated territory in
09-5     8-20-09     Hancock County being property known as 1370 Morton Lane,
                     containing 0.292 acres
                     Annexing the city certain unincorporated territory in
16-03    10-18-16    Hancock County being property known as 1270 Morton Lane,
                     containing 0.310 acres, 1330 Morton Lane, containing 0.456
                     acres and 1350 Morton Lane, containing 0.155 acres
                     Annexing to the city certain unincorporated territory in
18-5     11-15-18    Hancock County being property known as 1260 Morton Lane,
                     containing 0.310 acres
                    
 
TABLE III: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.         Date Passed Description
                             Approving a joint and cooperative program for
                             self-insurance, insurance, and the investment of
                             public funds among various cities, urban county
93-4             6-24-93     governments, and other public agencies within the
                             Commonwealth, authorizing the execution of the
                             interlocal cooperation agreement to establish the
                             Kentucky Municipal Risk Management Association
                             Authorizing a planning and administrative contract
Res. -           2-20-97     with the Green River Area Development District for
                             a total of $25,000
                             Authorizing a main line extension agreement
—              9-9-99      between the city and Robert and Patty Durbin of
                             400 Ray Road
                             Authorizing a main line extension agreement
—              9-13-99     between the city and Eric and Emile Young of 1000
                             Great Country Estates
                             Authorizing a lease between the city and the
—              4-20-00     Lewisport Senior Citizens Center, of 190 Fourth
                             Street, with the city acting as "landlord" and the
                             senior center as "tenant"
                             Authorizing a loan from the Green River Area
00-4             8-17-00     Development District for $67,500, financing the
                             replacement of a 12-inch storm drain
Res. 1-18-07     1-18-07     Adopting and approving the execution of a Mutual
                             Road Aid Bond Fund Agreement
                             Adopting and approving the execution of a
Res. 09-20-07    9-21-07     Municipal Road Aid Discretionary Bond Fund
                             Agreement
Res. 12-13       12-13-07    Authorizing gas purchase agreement
Res. 06-30-09    6-30-09     Amending gas purchase agreement
Res. 06-17-10    6-17-10     Authorizing execution of letter of credit
                             regarding gas purchase agreement
Res. 12-07-10    12-7-10     Adopting the Green River Area Development District
                             Hazard Mitigation Plan Update
                             Authorizing application for funds for project
Res. 06-21-12 #2 6-21-12     administered by Kentucky Office of Homeland
                             Security (KOHS)
Res. 05-16-13    5-16-13     Authorizing execution of letter of credit
                             regarding gas purchase agreement
Res. 05-15-14    5-15-14     Authorizing execution of letter of credit
                             regarding gas purchase agreement
19-4             8-15-19     Approving a lease for the financing of a project.
                            
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
                          Creating a franchise for the sanitation/refuse
97-9          1-15-98     collection within the city and providing for
                          advertising for bids
                          Creating a franchise for the operation of a
98-4          9-17-98     communication antenna television system within the
                          city and providing for advertising for bids
                          Granting to Rapid Communication Partners, L.P. a
98-6          10-15-98    nonexclusive franchise to operate and maintain a
                          cable communication system across the public right-
                          of-way within the city
                          Providing for the sale of a nonexclusive franchise
98-7          11-30-98    for an electric transmission and/or distribution
                          system
                          Approving the transfer of the cable television
Res. 2-17-00  2-17-00     franchise from Rapid Communications Partners, L.P. to
                          Mediacom LLC and its affiliates
                          Approving the transfer of the cable television
Res. 11-16-00 11-16-00    franchise from Mediacom Southeast LLC to Tele-Media
                          and thereafter to Adelphia
                          Creating a franchise for the sanitation/refuse
02-7          12-19-02    collection within the city and providing for the
                          receipt of sealed bids therefor
                          Providing for the sale of a non-exclusive franchise
03-5          12-18-03    for an electric transmission and/or distribution
                          system
Res. 9-15-05  9-15-05     Providing approval for an assignment of the franchise
                          and the cable system to Time Warner NY Cable LLC
                          Creating a franchise for the sanitation/refuse
08-1          2-25-08     collection within the city and providing for the
                          receipt of sealed bids
                          Granting a cable television franchise to Time Warner
08-9          10-16-08    NY Cable, LLC to construct, operate, and maintain a
                          cable television system
                          Providing for the sale of a non-exclusive franchise
09-1          2-19-09     or privilege to construct, maintain, operate, repair,
                          and remove an electric transmission and/or
                          distribution system
Res. 06-19-08 6-14-08     Providing approval for the spin-off of Time Warner
                          Cable Inc.
Res. 08-21-08 8-21-08     Approving assignment of cable television franchise
                          and cable system to Windjammer Communications LLC
Res. 05-20-10 5-20-10     Approving the transfer of the cable television
                          franchise to Crystal Broadband Networks, Inc.
Res. 08-18-11 8-18-11     Approving assignment of the cable television
                          franchise and system to Inside Connect, LLC
Res. 05-24-12 5-24-12     Consenting and approving assignment of the cable
                          franchise and system to Inside Connect, LLC
                          Creating a franchise for the sanitation/refuse
12-4          12-13-12    collection within the city and providing for the
                          receipt of sealed bids
                          Providing for the sale of a non-exclusive franchise
13-5          12-12-13    or privilege to construct, maintain, operate, repair,
                          and remove an electric transmission and/or
                          distribution system for a period of five years
                          Creating a franchise for the sanitation/refuse
17-07         12-5-17     collection within the city directing the City Clerk
                          to advertise said franchise, and providing for the
                          receipt of sealed bids therefore
                          Providing for the sale of a non-exclusive franchise
                          or privilege to construct, maintain, operate, repair
                          and remove an electric transmission and/or
18-4          10-25-18    distribution system, together with all necessary or
                          convenient poles, wires, lines, anchors and other
                          facilities and appurtenances for the purpose of
                          transporting, distributing and vending electric
                          energy for public and private uses
22-05         11-17-22    Creating a franchise for the sanitation/refuse
                          collection within the city.
                          Providing for the sale of a non-exclusive franchise
                          or privilege to construct, maintain, operate, repair
                          and remove an electric transmission and/or
23-08         11-16-23    distribution system, together with all necessary or
                          convenient poles, wires, lines, anchors and other
                          facilities and appurtenances for the purpose of
                          transporting, distributing and vending electric
                          energy for public and private uses
                         
 
TABLE V: REZONINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Rezoning from R-3 Residential to B-2 General Business,
        8- -80      certain land bounding on Caroline and Second Streets,
                     beginning at an iron pipe between William L. Taylor
                     property and Hugh Johnson property
        9-18-80     Rezoning from R-3 Residential to R-4 Residential, certain
                     land bounding on Market Street being two tracts:
                   (1)   Beginning at Wollener's corner
                   (2)   A parcel of ground known as the "Old Roach Lot"
                     Rezoning from R-3 Residential to R-4 Residential certain
        10-16-80    land bounding on Market and Beech Streets, being lots 17
                     and 18 of the Toler Addition to the city
                     Rezoning from R-3 Residential to B-3 Neighborhood
        11-12-80    Business, certain land bounding on Fourth Street in the
                     city, being lots 41 and 42 as shown on the plat of the
                     city
                     Rezoning from R-3 Residential to R-4 Residential certain
3-87     6-18-87     land located on Pell Street lots 3 and 4 on the plat of
                     Owens Addition to the city
4-87     6-18-87     Rezoning from R-3 Residential to R-4 Residential certain
                     land located on Pell Street designated as lot 104
                     Rezoning from R-2 Residential to R-4 Residential certain
5-87     7-16-87     land located on Little Avenue in the James Toler Addition
                     to the city, numbered as lots 36 and 37 and lots 5 and 6
                     in the J.H. Toler Addition
                     Rezoning from R-2 Residential to R-4 Residential certain
6-87     7-29-87     land located on the corner of Sixth and Pell Streets in
                     the city
        9-17-87     Rezoning from R-3 Residential to R-4 Residential certain
                     land located on Market Street in the city
                     Rezoning from R-2 Residential to B-2 Commercial certain
        11-16-89    land located on Highway 657 beginning in the east margin
                     of the right-of- way of Kentucky Highway 657
                     Rezoning from R-3 Residential to R-4 Residential certain
        3-15-90     land located on Market Street situated between Second and
                     Third Streets
                     Rezoning from R-2 Residential to R-4 Residential certain
93-1     2-18-93     land located on Williams Avenue lots 46 and 47 of the
                     Toler Addition
                     Rezoning from R-2 Residential to R-4 Residential certain
94-2     9-1-94      land located on Toler Avenue, being lots 14, and lot 77 of
                     the Toler Addition
                     Rezoning from R-3 Residential to R-4 Residential certain
94-3     7- -94      land located on Toler Avenue being lots 34, 35 and the
                     southern 20 feet of lot 33 in the Poplar Grove Addition
                     Rezoning from R-3 Residential to R-4 Residential certain
95-2     4-20-95     land located on Old Mill Road being lots 32, 33, 34 and 35
                     in the Poplar Grove Addition
96-8     7-18-96     Rezoning from B-3 Neighborhood Business to B-2 General
                     Business certain land located on Old Mill Road
97-5     7-17-97     Rezoning from R-3 Residential to B-3 Neighborhood Business
                     certain land located at 770 Market Street
99-3     5-20-99     Rezoning a tract of land located on U.S. 60 in Lewisport
                     from A-1 Agricultural to B-2 General Business
99-4     5-20-99     Rezoning a tract of land on the corner of 5th and Market
                     Streets from R-3 Residential to R-4 Residential
99-6     9-16-99     Rezoning a tract of land at Lot 60 on the corner of Market
                     Street from R-3 Residential to R-4 Residential
Res. -   12-28-00    Rezoning a tract of land on Market Street from R-
                     3 Residential to R-4 Residential
01-1     2-15-01     Rezoning a tract of land at Lot 81 on Market Street from
                     R-3 Residential to R-4 Residential
06-3     9-21-06     Rezoning from R-2 Residential to B-1 Central Business
                     2.314 acres of land located at 400 Second Street
06-7     1-18-07     Rezoning from R-3 Residential to R-4 Residential certain
                     land owned by Neal Gray and located at 80 Pell Street
19-7     12-12-19    Rezoning from R-2 to B-3 3.372 acres of land located at
                     561 Fifth Street
22-06    11-17-22    Rezoning from R-2 to R-3 a tract of land located at 195
                     Community Center Drive
                    
 
TABLE VI: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Abandoning and closing a portion of Poplar Grove Road from
2-87     3-19-87     the north margin of Caroline Street to the south margin of
                     Third Alley and from the north margin of Third Alley to
                     the south margin of Pell Street
 
TABLE VII: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
                           Entering into a contract with LRT Services, LLC, for
Res. 10-17-13A 10-17-13    the purchase of real property located at Pell,
                           Fourth, and Caroline Streets for the sum of $125,000
                           Agreeing to sell by sealed bids surplus real
14-8           6-23-14     property located on the north side of Market Street
                           containing 2,639.411 square feet
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section        Code Section
Chapter 13B        111.38
18A.225            112.04
41.240             32.10
41.240(4)          32.06
61.870 - 61.884    37.01
61.874             37.01
Chapter 65         34.03
65.120             Ch. 70
65.8801 - 65.8839  38.01,
                   38.13
65.8815(5)         38.05
82.082             34.03,
                   50.11
83A.010(6)         10.02
83A.010(8)         10.02
83A.050            31.02
83A.060(12), (13)  32.01
83A.080            34.04
83A.085            30.01
83A.170            31.02
91A.080(8)         112.06
Chapter 92         33.02
Chapter 100        150.02,
                   151.01
100.147            150.02
100.157            150.02
Chapter 136        33.01
136.320            112.04
Chapter 151        151.20
151.250            151.20,
                   151.21
186.020            72.01
186.050            72.01
Chapter 189        72.01
189.080            72.01
189.820            72.01
224.20-720         72.01
Chapter 241        111.02
241.010(30)        111.37
241.010(38)        111.25
241.190            111.04
Chapter 242        111.02
                   111.02,
Chapter 243        111.34,
                   111.38
243.020 to 243.670 111.36
243.030            111.33
243.033            111.25
243.070            111.25,
                   111.33
243.075            111.31
243.360            111.26
243.450            111.34,
                   111.38
243.450(2)         111.34
243.490            111.38
243.500            111.38
243.640            111.36
243.650            111.36
Chapter 244        111.02
244.280            111.05
244.290            111.25
244.480            111.25
Chapter 304        112.01
304.38-060         112.04
304.39-080         72.01
304.49-010         112.04
Chapter 350        151.20
Chapter 386        10.02
Chapter 386A       10.02
446.010(1)         10.02
446.010(2)         10.02
446.010(6)         10.02
446.010(8)         10.02
446.010(9)         10.02
446.010(10)        10.02
446.010(12)        10.02
446.010(13)        10.02
446.010(14)        10.02
446.010(15)        10.02
446.010(17)        10.02
446.010(18)        10.02
446.010(23)        10.02
446.010(25)        10.02
446.010(26)        10.02
446.010(27)        10.02
446.010(28)        10.02
446.010(30)        10.02
446.010(31)        10.02
446.010(33)        10.02
446.010(36)        10.02
446.010(37)        10.02
446.010(39)        10.02
446.010(43)        10.02
446.010(46)        10.02
446.010(47)        10.02
446.010(49)        10.02
446.010(55)        10.02
446.020(1)         10.03
446.020(2)         10.03
446.030            10.04
446.050            10.05
446.060            10.06
446.080(1)         10.03
446.080(3)         10.03
446.080(4)         10.03
446.090            10.07
446.100            10.08
446.110            10.09
446.140            10.01
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         91.01,
                     91.02
9-72     9-11-72     70.01
10-76    10-21-76    92.01,
                     92.99
-        - -80       T.S.O. II
-        - -80       150.02
-        1-12-80     T.S.O. II
-        2-12-80     T.S.O. II
-        3-20-80     150.01
-        8- -80      T.S.O. V
-        9-18-80     T.S.O. V
-        10-16-80    T.S.O. V
-        11-12-80    T.S.O. V
2-87     3-19-87     T.S.O. VI
3-87     6-18-87     T.S.O. V
4-87     6-18-87     T.S.O. V
5-87     7-16-87     T.S.O. V
6-87     7-29-87     T.S.O. V
-        9-17-87     T.S.O. V
1-88     3-30-88     Ch. 71, Sch. I
1-89     2-16-89     53.01
-        11-16-89    T.S.O. V
-        3-15-90     T.S.O. V
6-90     11-15-90    30.01
93-1     2-18-93     T.S.O. V
93-2     2-18-93     150.01
93-4     6-24-93     T.S.O. III
94-2     9-1-94      T.S.O. V
94-3     7- -94      T.S.O. V
94-5     7-27-94     50.01
94-8     10-4-94     T.S.O. II
                     151.01 -
                     151.04,
                     151.20 -
                     151.22,
                     151.24 -
-        10-20-94    151.28,
                     151.40,
                     151.42,
                     151.55 -
                     151.59,
                     151.99
95-1     3-2-95      34.01 -
                     34.49
95-2     4-20-95     T.S.O. V
                     90.01 -
95-5     12-18-95    90.03,
                     90.99
96-1     - -96       50.10 -
                     50.13
-        5-16-96     150.01
96-8     7-18-96     T.S.O. V
96-9     7-18-96     51.110 -
                     51.115
                     51.001 -
                     51.110,
96-10    10-17-96    51.125 -
                     51.136,
                     51.999
96-7     - -97       33.01
96-13    2-20-97     35.01
-        4-17-97     150.01
97-2     - -97       53.01
97-3     6-19-97     50.01
97-5     7-17-97     T.S.O. V
97-7     - -97       51.018
-        10-23-97    51.113
97-9     1-15-98     T.S.O. IV
98-2     7-23-98     T.S.O. I
98-3     7-23-98     52.01,
                     52.99
98-4     9-17-98     T.S.O. IV
98-6     10-15-98    T.S.O. IV
98-7     11-30-98    T.S.O. IV
99-2     3-25-99     T.S.O. II
99-3     5-20-99     T.S.O. V
99-4     5-20-99     T.S.O. V
-        9-9-99      T.S.O. III
-        9-13-99     T.S.O. III
99-6     9-16-99     T.S.O. V
99-7     9-16-99     33.02
99-8     9-16-99     T.S.O. II
99-10    10-21-99    36.01,
                     36.02
-        4-20-00     T.S.O. III
                     50.01,
00-3     7-20-00     50.02,
                     53.03,
                     53.04
00-4     8-17-00     T.S.O. III
00-5     9-21-00     33.02
00-6     10-19-00    53.01
01-1     2-15-01     T.S.O. V
01-3     5-17-01     31.02
01-5     9-20-01     33.02
01-6     9-20-01     T.S.O. II
01-7     10-18-01    Adopting Ordinance
01-8     1-17-02     50.01
02-2     5-16-02     150.01
02-4     6-20-02     T.S.O. II
02-5     10-17-02    53.01
02-6     10-17-02    33.02
02-7     12-19-02    T.S.O. IV
03-3     9-18-03     53.01
03-4     10-16-03    33.02
03-5     12-18-03    T.S.O. IV
                     110.01 -
03-6     12-18-03    110.12,
                     110.99
04-1     4-15-04     T.S.O. II
04-3     10-21-04    33.02
04-4     12-16-04    53.01
05-3     11-16-05    33.02
05-4     11-16-05    T.S.O. II
05-5     11-16-05    53.01
05-6     12-15-05    T.S.O. II
                     93.01 -
05-7     1-19-06     93.03,
                     93.99
06-3     9-21-06     T.S.O. V
06-4     10-24-06    33.02
06-5     1-18-07     53.01
06-7     1-18-07     T.S.O. V
07-1     6-21-07     50.01
07-3     7-19-07     50.02,
                     53.04
07-4     7-19-07     Adopting Ordinance
07-5     10-18-07    33.02
07-7     1-17-08     53.01
08-1     2-25-08     T.S.O. IV
                     151.01 -
                     151.04,
                     151.20 -
                     151.28,
08-2     2-25-08     151.40 -
                     151.42,
                     151.55 -
                     151.61,
                     151.99
                     151.01,
                     151.20 -
                     151.22,
08-4     5-15-08     151.27,
                     151.28,
                     151.40,
                     151.42
08-7     9-18-08     33.02
08-8     10-16-08    53.01
08-9     10-16-08    T.S.O. IV
09-1     2-19-09     T.S.O. IV
09-2     4-16-09     T.S.O. II
09-5     8-20-09     T.S.O. II
09-6     9-17-09     33.02
09-7     10-15-09    53.01
                     94.01 -
10-2     5-20-10     94.09,
                     94.99
10-4     8-19-10     50.01
10-5     8-19-10     51.113
10-6     10-21-10    33.02
10-7     12-14-10    53.01
11-2     6-23-11     50.01
11-3     6-23-11     51.113
11-4     10-20-11    33.02
12-2     10-18-12    53.01
12-3     10-18-12    33.02
12-4     12-13-12    T.S.O. IV
13-3     8-22-13     72.01
13-4     10-17-13    33.02
13-5     12-12-13    T.S.O. IV
14-2     4-24-14     50.03
14-3     4-24-14     51.115
14-4     4-24-14     53.05
14-6     6-23-14     50.01
14-7     6-23-14     51.113
14-8     6-23-14     T.S.O. VII
14-10    10-16-14    33.02
15-3     6-18-15     50.01
15-4     6-18-15     51.113
15-5     10-15-15    33.02
16-4     10-18-16    33.02
16-03    10-18-16    T.S.O. II
17-3     6-15-17     53.01
17-4     6-15-17     50.01
17-5     6-15-17     51.113
17-6     10-19-17    33.02
17-07    12-5-17     T.S.O. IV
18-3     10-25-18    33.02
18-4     10-25-18    T.S.O. IV
18-5     11-15-18    T.S.O. II
19-3     6-20-19     50.01
19-4     8-15-19     T.S.O. III
19-5     10-17-19    33.02
19-06    12-12-19    72.01
19-7     12-12-19    T.S.O. V
                     111.01 -
                     111.11,
19-8     12-12-19    111.25 -
                     111.38,
                     111.99
                     111.04,
20-1     2-20-20     111.06,
                     111.08
20-4     10-15-20    112.01 -
                     112.06
20-5     10-15-20    33.02
21-2     4-15-21     91.10 -
                     91.12
21-4     6-17-21     50.01
21-5     6-17-21     51.113
21-6     10-21-21    33.02
22-02    4-21-22     150.01
22-04    10-20-22    33.02
22-05    11-17-22    T.S.O. IV
22-06    11-17-22    T.S.O. V
23-1     3-16-23     111.50
23-03    6-15-23     38.01 -
                     38.16
23-4     6-15-23     53.01
23-06    10-19-23    38.05
23-07    10-19-23    33.02
23-08    11-16-23    T.S.O. IV
                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.      Date Passed Code Section
-             2-20-97     T.S.O. III
2-17-00       2-17-00     T.S.O. IV
5-18-00       5-18-00     53.02
-             12-28-00    T.S.O. V
11-16-00      11-16-00    T.S.O. IV
5-20-04       5-20-04     53.02
9-15-05       9-15-05     T.S.O. IV
5-18-06       5-18-06     53.02
1-18-07       1-18-07     T.S.O. III
09-20-07      9-21-07     T.S.O. III
12-13         12-13-07    T.S.O. III
01-17-08      1-17-08     53.02
06-19-08      6-14-08     T.S.O. IV
08-21-08      8-21-08     T.S.O. IV
04-16-2009-2  4-16-09     35.01
06-30-09      6-30-09     T.S.O. III
05-20-10      5-20-10     T.S.O. IV
06-17-10      6-17-10     T.S.O. III
12-07-10      12-7-10     T.S.O. III
08-18-11      8-18-11     T.S.O. IV
02-16-12      2-16-12     35.01
05-24-12      5-24-12     T.S.O. IV
06-21-12      6-21-12     35.01
06-21-12 (#2) 6-21-12     T.S.O. III
04-18-13      4-18-13     36.15
05-16-13      5-16-13     T.S.O. III
05-16-13A     5-16-13     37.01
08-22-13      8-22-13     35.01
10-17-13A     10-17-13    T.S.O. VII
05-15-14      5-15-14     T.S.O. III
 
